ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the general debate on the future of work. Welcome to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State. There are 10 Members on the side of the Chamber who have appeared on the list of speakers with four minutes' speaking time each. The debate was requested by Mr Asscher. He will also be the first to speak on behalf of the Labour Party on the side of the Chamber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Two years ago I met Dennis van Geene in Rotterdam-West. He runs the Ali Baba playground there. Everyone is very happy about that. The kids love him and the neighborhood is very happy because it's safe. There's an overview. That makes for quality in that neighborhood. Dennis is getting welfare. He has to do all kinds of other things all the time, when this actually has his heart. How nice would it be if he just got paid for that, if we appreciated that job and if that was a job, so he would come home proudly at night? A Dennis court, so to speak. Mr. Chairman. We are holding the debate on the future of work, a major debate on two important reports. We also have a few questions to answer. How do we provide work for the people who are not participating now, like Dennis? Don't we have something better for them than that benefit? How do we ensure quality of work, that we enjoy it, that you can combine it with your family or other things, that you get autonomy back in the way you do your job, and how do we ensure that more people experience security in their work at a time of huge technological and economic change? Two reports have been published, one of the Scientific Council for Government Policy and one of the Borstlap Committee, which contains a great deal of beauty in this respect. For example, the WRR says: instead of the benefit as a lockout point for social security, you should have a basic job, a Dennis job. That is an incredibly good proposal. The Labour Party also advocated it in our election programme. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees with me that this is indeed a real job. This distinction is often made. Is he prepared to support the municipalities that are currently experimenting with this, such as Groningen, and to ensure that such experiments can become larger? You do allow everyone that feeling that you come home from work at night and that you can be proud of that. The second point is that quality of work. When you talk to the police or the emergency nurses or the teachers, you hear that they all actually experience a lack of autonomy in their work. They want to be able to practice their profession, but they've lost the grip. There's a huge workload. The Scientific Council is in fact calling for a programme for the quality of work. I ask the Minister to get to work on that, because I think that is true. If you give people that pleasure back and allow them to combine it with life with their families and their loved ones, then you do not only something good for those individual people, but also for the quality of work and our economy. On the third point, both reports are extremely hard and clear and critical: security has become a luxury. The flexibilisation has gone far too far. It is a social task to ensure that everyone can be sure of their work again. This means that as far as Borstlap is concerned, the fixed contract must be the starting point again. He's right about that. If we look closely, we can see that too many people are now carrying the risks we normally share in the Netherlands. I'm sure you saw Jolanda's story this morning in the Algemeen Dagblad. She works as a self-employed person, is the mother of three children, has now received breast cancer and is on welfare. You shouldn't think about it, but that's what happens when you have a safety net that doesn't protect people. We also call for steps now to be taken as quickly as possible to ensure that everyone is insured against incapacity for work. I'll ask the Minister what's going on. He promised to do so under the pension agreement. I also ask him if he agrees with us that the client should then have to pay and that you do not put it down with a self-employed person who often does not have the room at all to pay for it. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet promised that everyone would make progress. For that, a purchasing power promise from Mark Rutte is not what people need. Security of existence is progress for a lot of people. Making sure you keep your job is progress. That you can combine it with your private life is progress. The fact that you're sure there's income is progress. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to use these reports as quickly as possible to arrange disability insurance and to ask the Economic and Social Council to develop scenarios that give more certainty so that you can make the labour market fairer and more secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, too. There is an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	I would like to agree with much of what Mr Asscher says. The Borstlap Committee's report sometimes also includes things that you may not originally have included in your own election programme. Because in five years' time, we'll be having the same debate in the same pits. Take, for example, basic insurance for all workers. I am open to that and that was different for my party in the past. But my question is what the Labour Party actually stands for. Mr Borstlap said at the presentation that, in order to restore access to permanent employment for workers, we must also have the courage to look at that job, regardless of the exact proposal. With cherrypicking, choosing a few things that were already on your own program, you won't get there. Is the Labour Party prepared to embrace that thought of Borstlap? I felt that the first reaction of a number of colleagues was again very much about what they didn't want. I do not know Mr Asscher like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	Firstly, my appreciation for the fact that D66 is now in favour of self-employed insurance. That protection is needed and the reports also show that the tide is changing. The period in which it was pretended that it was all entrepreneurs who could easily arrange it for themselves is over. We have wanted much more protection and security in the labour market for a long time. You notice that the sacred faith in the free market is diminishing. That is why it is good news that there is consensus on this. Chestlap said two things in his report. It's not a choice menu; you should actually take it all. Limiting the security of 7 million with an indefinite contract he called sandpaper. This was precisely meant to provoke discussion. But if I can't choose in a restaurant and if they serve sandpaper there, I'll walk a little further. So yes, we will all have to adapt to how the economy changes and to the technology. No one has the same work as at the age of 18 at the age of 67. But no, it's a classic mistake to think that people with flex lanes are useful when you make 7 million people insecure. We need to see exactly what it says. The one-sided adjustment of your working time, your workplace and your position, with an acceptance obligation for the employee, does not contribute to security and is a bad idea. I didn't talk about it on purpose. Let's just cut that page with scissors from the report and get to work with the good ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	It is all rhetorically very gifted, but what I hear almost say to Mr Asscher here, and that cannot be his approach: thank you all for joining the good ideas I already had. I also made arrangements with you about basic insurance. I like standing in front of that, too. I'm fine with that. At the same time, however, Mr Borstlap is intriguingly saying that you are not just going to look at self-employed people. Moreover, we have a slightly different view of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We can hang out in that together. You should also see how that small entrepreneur dares to offer that fixed contract again. I hope that the Labour Party will give us an open view and also one or two proposals. And I am not talking about that very precise one, because I agree with you; I do not think that is very sensible either. But please, let us not start this debate now by saying: I am cutting out what is not coming out of my own programme. Because then I will be back here with Mr Asscher in five years' time. I think that is extremely good, but that has not helped the labour market very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	I didn't start with that; I just started with the things I found positive in both reports. When it comes to how you can help employers or companies get people back into employment, of course it has to be. Of course you have to. The Labour Party proposes to give an employee advantage to companies that employ people. You can do that if you let the Ubers and the Deliveroos pay instead of just taking advantage. You give that advantage to companies, especially the small businesses that employ people. That's what I'm huge for. We are also in favour of solving the sickness payment for these small businesses, all of them, so that it is not the stress for the small business, but not at the expense of the employee. I think that is the false contradiction that some people still seek. I saw that Mr Van Weyenberg, in a response to this part of the report, said: I am not hanging up the slingshots for that. Anyone who knows him a little longer knows that if he doesn't hang up the garlands, he'll think it's a piece of shit. But he's just gonna say it a little quieter. So we're in agreement. Let us make use of this turnaround in thinking and striving for security, but not making the mistake of playing employees against each other again. That's a mistake of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	In conclusion, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	I agree. This cabinet is also quite rightly working on it, I know that you support it with the approach of payroll, with making flex contracts more expensive and making fixed contracts cheaper. But I do hope that the Labour Party will also look in the future with an open mind at the need for what the Borstlap Committee calls 'avertibility'. Otherwise, we're starting taboos today, and I don't think that's good for anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	Think about it? Sure. In fact, to take the example that Borstlap mentions as a small company in trouble because of Brexit, wouldn't you want to leave them in trouble? I agree! Only then should we choose to resolve this by helping that small business rather than by saying that these workers should only get 20% or 30% less money. I think the time you put the risks of a company on the employee is over. Resilience? Sure. Helping companies in that? Sure. Rewarding companies that hire people? I'd love to. We have put forward proposals for this. I hope that the Minister will take it and look at it and that we can find the best solutions on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	I forgot to count, but the word "security," as you know, comes back a lot in Mr. Asscher's speech. He's talking a lot about not turning workers against each other. I very much agree with that. But yet again, I can taste Mr. Asscher's opposition between employees and employers. Then what about that hairdresser on the corner who doesn't know if he can keep his company, I wonder. What about those little IT companies that are growing but aren't sure if they want to have so many employees in five, six, seven years? How does Mr Asscher intend to give these entrepreneurs security in order to remain manoeuvrable in this labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	I speak to a lot of employers who are actually looking for the employee back in employment. That means that people are loyal. You're just gonna move with me. People then dare to be critical. Only those employers say: a we are sometimes competed away by companies that do everything through self-employed people, the Ubers of this world, and b you have to help us a little bit with what happens when things go down. I agree with that. I think that we can make the choice of supporting those good-willed companies much more than we are doing now, rather than actually rewarding the companies that are doing it in an antisocial way, as at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	I speak to these companies, too. They say, "I'm going crazy with the paperwork that comes along, and I think the financial risks are huge." I hear Mr. Asscher say he recognizes that, too. I am therefore curious to see how the follow-up is going. It means that we must also ensure that the small employer on the corner and the small IT company that is growing can remain agile in this labour market. Does Mr. Asscher agree with me? Then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	If you were to ensure that companies that employ people will pay less tax than they do now, and that companies that only use flexible labour will pay more tax, you will pay a price for flexibility, as is the case in the rest of our economy. That is precisely what supports the companies you call. The manoeuvrability is that you can ask more of people on permanent duty to help keep your business going. It also means that if things go badly economically, you can help a company take care of that. I argued for part-time WW if there was a shock after the Brexit. In other words, this manoeuvrability, this flexibility, should not be at the expense of the workers and not at the expense of the companies. That means you just have to pay for flexibility, and reward security. It's possible. There is consensus in those reports that it should, and that it is good for our economy. Even if you do not find those workers interesting, Borstlap says that it has gone too far for our future and for our earning capacity as a country. So we just have to go that way. From the fact that the VVD has agreed to at least a higher WW premium for flex and a lower for fixed, I conclude that you have actually already made that thought yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you for your contribution. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Marijnissen, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The car wash of the nursing home: I didn't immediately realize what it meant, but the employees who work in the nursing home explained it to me. Those were the level 2 people, the so-called helpers, who cynically no longer called themselves a caregiver but a car wash. That meant getting older people out of bed, washing, dressing up, getting the next one out of bed, washing, dressing up, getting the next one out of bed, washing, dressing up, like a car wash. What they told us about is the flexibilisation in the nursing home. All tasks were cut up, divided among different levels of employees, and their work was reduced to the car wash. That didn't stop the broken flex, because after that came the so-called broken services; a concept in the nursing home. Not once a day at work, but twice a day, namely at the beginning of the day, when the elderly had to be taken out of bed, and at the end of the day, when the elderly had to be put back to bed. And in the meantime, the employees weren't needed and they were sent home. That freaked-out flex had big consequences. First of all, the pleasure of the people in their work took off. Indeed, caring is much more than just getting out of bed, washing and dressing. Secondly, there was an enormous increase in workload. Because if you were at work, it was full of gas, one hundred percent, physically heavy work, and the moment there was a moment of rest and space, the people were sent home. Thirdly, the quality of work and the quality of care were under pressure. Because caring is much more than just getting people out of bed. That's also the walk you can take. That's also the conversation you had. But there wasn't room for that anymore. Mr. Chairman. All the conclusions and analyses, especially the analyses that both Borstlap and the WRR make, I actually heard in the conversations I had when I was in a previous life, before I ended up in this Chamber, still did the collective agreement for the people who work in the care of the elderly. I heard them in those nursing homes. There, people told me how the fluctuating flexibilisation, the broken services, the changing schedules and the changing colleagues led to higher workload, and how these things were an attack on human dignity as they perceived it. I hope, therefore, that the analysis that Borstlap and the WRR are making will open the eyes of those who are sitting here and who may still believe in that fluent flex. Because that flex is the concrete rot of our society. It eats away the foundations of our society, that constant uncertainty. The Netherlands is champion flexwork in Europe. 3 million people have an uncertain contract in the Netherlands. That means an insecure income. That often means that you don't know what you have in your account at the end of the month. Borstlap took the term "social issue" in his mouth. We know the social issue from the nineteenth century: 1870, industrial revolution and its adverse consequences. Surely it must give us all the thought that someone like Borstlap anno, a century and a half later, is again talking about the term "social issue"? Once again, it is about poor working conditions and an uncertain income. I hope, therefore, that the conclusion that we can draw from this debate today is that the path of more and more flex and more uncertainty is a dead end. I therefore sincerely hope that we can agree here together that the medicine, the recipe for dealing with that uncertainty, can never or never be the introduction of a new or other form of uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you. We are therefore ready for the third speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	Not so long ago our group went to the movies, very cozy with each other. We went to Sorry We Missed You from Ken Loach. It was an impressive film, where everyone was quite beaten out of. We talked a little bit more about what that is: is it so brilliantly filmed or is the script so well constructed? But actually it was because of the recognition in our own lives that we all see when we watch that movie. We all see that delivery guy coming to us. We're thinking about the lack of certainty this person has. We're all thinking about the home care worker we know from our work or from our private lives. The world has changed. Society has changed. After the Second World War, we built a fantastic welfare state based on solidarity. The idea that we're all co-paying to insure each other for those moments of bad luck. That doesn't exist for a lot of people anymore. For those parcel delivery guys. For home care workers who are not employees, but actually home care entrepreneurs. And there's something going wrong. I am very pleased with the reports from the WRR and the Borstlap Committee. Many thanks to both. Let it be a basis for the good conversation. I get it very well when Mr Borstlap says: don't cherrypicking, don't take anything out, try to see it as a whole. That's what I want to do, but I do have one concern. When I read the report, it's different from the interim report I've seen. It sometimes seems as if we fall back into a traditional groove in which we think: both left must have something of pain and right must have something of pain. But that is not the issue at all, as we should not fall into the trap of including all kinds of groups in the labour market for which one might be a bit of an improvement or a deterioration. Let me start with thezzp'ers, perhaps one of the most difficult subjects. There are parties, including my party, that have manyzzp'ers in their ranks. Talking about compulsory insurance can be scary: how, what do we take away someone; someone is an entrepreneur? Solidarity means participating in social security, not because you need to be insured, but because we need to be insured. It may mean that you individually pay a slightly higher price than you would like. And yes, you can arrange it individually with an insurer. That might be better for you, but not for society as a whole. If you're young and everything goes well and flawless, then you don't need all that insurance. What are you paying for anyway? But there's gonna come a time when it's gonna be necessary. The plea I would like to make is that we are looking at the labour market with each other open. That we don't do cherrypicking, but that we don't do either: and left must have a bit of pain and right must have a bit of pain. It is about making sure that those people in the labour market have security, are protected for the moment when things are not right. That means we have to go back to collectivity, we have to organize more things with each other. The paradox is: the more we organize collectively, the more we put the word "obligatory" into social security schemes, the greater individual freedom. Because if people are insured of income when things go wrong, they are also more likely to be able to take steps, to take risks. In order to increase freedom for as many people as possible, more obligations will be needed in our social security system. Mr. Chairman. Times have changed and we see that capital always wins. If you read the stock exchange reports or how companies are doing and the profits go down a little bit, you can see right away that there is talk about how to reduce the workforce. We need to get rid of that. We see that capital is always gaining in this capital-intensive economy. Workers deserve that better protection, not only against this dismissal, but they also need to benefit from the progress that has been made. Because the biggest profits that are made do not go to employees. They don't go back into the company either, which would be a great investment. But they go to the shareholders via dividend value. Tackling this is also part of a 21st century labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you. That is the end of your speech, but I see an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	I would like to move on to the issue of self-employed entrepreneurs. I share what Mr Klaver says. It is becoming less and less easy to cut with scissors and, as far as I am concerned, it depends far too much on the form of contract, a kind of basic insurance, for example, for incapacity for work for all workers. Mr Asscher rightly mentioned this morning's poignant example in the newspaper. I understand. But does Mr Klaver also agree with me that if you do that, then you will create a kind of basic security, and you will perhaps make the tax playing field even more even, which should give more space to those people who say: yes, but I choose that self-entrepreneurship because I want it so badly, because it suits me? Isn't that supposed to give them more space, because you've made some pieces of social security and tax treatment a little more right? Then it is no longer driven by perhaps wrong motives: that you cannot insure yourself and are cheaper, often not of your own free will anyway. Then such a system with basic security offers room for all workers to do a little more justice to all those entrepreneurs who like to opt for thatzzp-ship?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	At the risk that I haven't properly understood you, but that has never been an obstacle to giving an answer that you'd like to give yourself, I think that equalizing taxes and worries... Let's go back. What was so good about building the welfare state, in which we made sure that there was collective or almost universal social security, that tax regimes were the same for all kinds of different workers and that we reduced the number of types of workers? It allowed us to combat competition on working conditions. I think that gives greater freedom to everyone to choose the form that suits him, or as an entrepreneur, or as a permanent employee. I think that's gonna mean to a lot of people that they're gonna choose that permanent shift. I have nothing against entrepreneurship. I love it. If you want to work as azzp'er, go ahead. But too many people are forced into that position. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	This is a hopeful answer. I referred to Mr Klaver's warm words. The Borstlap Committee's report says a little too much: whether you want it yourself, we take it out a little bit. That's what it says. The will of the parties is no longer relevant. I think, quite frankly, that if you regulate basic security, this might be more room to do exactly what Mr Klaver said to my pleasure, namely: if you really want to do it, and nine out of ten do not want a permanent job, but become a self-employed person, then that's okay. So I thank Mr Klaver for this very encouraging answer. I think many self-employed people feel very supported by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	I don't know what that's like for all self-employed people, but Mr Van Weyenberg is really walking away like he just won the jackpot! So I'm going to be very careful in my choice of words, because I don't want to spoil his evening, but: there's a big but on it. I strongly believe in the employee-unless principle. It could be that there are people out there right now saying, "I'm an entrepreneur, because I'm a mailman." Or: I deliver packages and with that I am an entrepreneur. Let me be very clear here. I think these people should just be employees. So I can go with you in part. There is also a whole category of people for whom it does not apply and who can be perfectly independent entrepreneurs in all kinds of professions, but at the moment there are too many fields in which people are also walking around saying: but I really like to deliver packages and I am an entrepreneur. I actually think they're just employees and they should be in permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	I did like the first answer better, but let's look for what binds us. What I liked in Mr Klaver's reply, and I hope he still supports it, is the concept that if you make it more similar to those basic assurances...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	The Minister likes it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	I like it a lot, too. You too, I think. But let's not fool around. I understand very well what you're saying about groups, about "sorry, but this isn't free will" or "it has a negative look on others."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	Home care: no entrepreneurs either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	But a lot of groups of people have chosen that entrepreneurship. People who, for example, are in palliative care. I know him. They do 24-hour care and sometimes death counseling. If you provide more basic securities............................................................................................................ I hope that we can find each other there, because a lot of self-employed people who do this of their own free will, who I believe are actually doing so, are 'you must also become an employee', just a little concerned about the report of the Borstlap Committee. I'm sure your words will help take that concern away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	Finalizing, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	Actually, we're just getting started, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yes, but Mr Stoffer has been waiting for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	There will remain entrepreneurs. That's incredibly important. That space will be there, no matter how we decorate our social security. But I also hope that Mr Van Weyenberg agrees with me that the way in which we are going to reform our labour market and our social security systems will lead to fewer self-employed workers in the Netherlands. I think that is going to be the consequence of the choices we have to make with each other. This is without prejudice to the fact that many people will also work independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	A fine speech by Mr Klaver, but there was one thing that got me thinking. That is always good in itself, but at some point Mr Klaver said: that word "obligatory" should actually be returned as much as possible, because then you have the ultimate freedom to choose. But if you go through that in the ultimate and put "obligatory" for everything, then you don't have any incentive to do anything anymore, do you? Because then everything is already mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, that's true. Perhaps Mr Stoffer can indicate what he means, but if you put "obligatory" for or behind everything, you will no longer have freedom. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	I do not mean anything, but I heard Mr Klaver say: the more that happens, the better it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	I must have expressed myself wrong, because Mr Stoffer is always a attentive listener, but I have tried to outline the following. We know that the best way to create social security, insurance for everyone, and thus keep the price as low as possible, is to make it compulsory. "Compulsion" sounds incredibly fearful." Woo-hoo-hoo, we really shouldn't have that!" But if I were to propose that the obligation be removed from the pension system, you would all rise up to come to the interrupting microphone and drag me here about the chair, and rightly so. That is exactly what I mean to say about the other aspects of social security. If you have insurance, there should be as little opt-outs as possible, because that increases the price and makes sure that fewer people are insured and that you can do cherrypicking on the labour market. And I understand that people aren't wild about that at all, so we really need to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	I welcome this explanation. We're not gonna find each other entirely, but I was a little worried we were going to some sort of communist system. But I now find that at least that is not the prospect that Mr Klaver wants to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	When it comes to communism, the VVD gets up right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	That feeling of communism also gave me a little credit when listening to Mr. Klaver. 'Cause even though he's trying to cancel that verbally, all Mr. Klaver's non-verbal communication is kind of disgusting to independent entrepreneurs, isn't it? "Entrepreneurs will always be there, but rather not." Mr. Klaver appoints a group that is actually forced to be independent. Is he aware of the percentage ofzzp'ers forced to bezzp'er?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	What percentage are you talking about? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	0.9%. Most entrepreneurs, most of the self-employed we're talking about, are just entrepreneurs who do things with soul and salvation for customers, patients, clients, whatever. What I hear Mr. Klaver say is: let's take that one small group as a standard and put all kinds of regulations on it, so that we have as little self-employed as possible left in the Netherlands. At least that's what I'm tasting from Mr. Klaver's speech, but if I look at his non-verbal expressions, I'm sure he can refute that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	I don't know. I do not know whether I want to refute everything you say, but there is indeed a group of forced self-employed people, or self-employed people, who may not be forced to do so, but which I would say are simply employees who should simply return to employment. When I say something about entrepreneurs, I add: entrepreneurship is fantastic. Entrepreneurs are innovative. Entrepreneurs come up with new things and create jobs in this country. That's very important, but even if you're an entrepreneur, I think you should contribute to social security. The fact that you're an entrepreneur and you're at risk, I find no reason not to contribute to all that collective insurance. Because the best way to insure each other cheaply is by ensuring that as many people as possible pay for it and participate in it. Whether you're an entrepreneur or an employee, I think those risks should be insured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	Two responses. Point one, does Mr. Clover determine whether people are entrepreneurs, or do they decide for themselves? That's an interesting question. The other is that entrepreneurs also contribute to our solidarity. We have a progressive tax system. I'd like to get this straight. Today there was a nice article in ZIPeconomy which contains a number of rates and contributions. So let's not narrow it down to just aov, social contributions or whatever, but let's look at it in its entirety, whatever Mr.Bustlap is actually calling us to: look at it in its context instead of picking out things and calling it yes or no again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	This is interesting to me. The VVD says about everything that happens: but we do have progressive taxes? Yeah, that's the headline. But an important part of social security is paid not from taxes but from contributions. So if you say that we still have a progressive tax system, that we might have to make a move on that, that we should pay a little more out of taxes, or that we might have to make the premiums a little more progressive in order to ensure that the highest incomes contribute more to that, then I am quite open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	But you didn't hear me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	Oh. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	I'm saying don't say that's nothing at all; those people don't show solidarity with the rest. That's just not fair. You're putting self-employed people away as something we'd rather not have in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	No, sorry, that's bullshit. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	But that's how the aftertaste is with me, and I really won't be the only one in it. You need to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	Finally. I appreciate all the questions that have been asked, and I also appreciate the debate techniques. We are at the beginning of a very complicated debate on the future of the labour market, which we must have together. Let us try not to put caricatures together about what we might or might not have said about entrepreneurs and whether or not you would want to. I've been perfectly clear. I think that we should keep an open eye on each other and on the future of the labour market and social security. The starting point must be that we insure people in the Netherlands as much as possible, so that they have the freedom to do what is where their heart lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good form to have a debate on these reports before there is a cabinet response to two interesting reports from the WRR and from the Borstlap Committee, and to ask the question in which direction we are thinking. I would like to begin with the call that we do not, as far as I am concerned, have the luxury of taboos. Otherwise we will be back in a similar debate in ten years' time, when we have seen for years that if we are not careful we will all dig our foxholes deeper and deeper, in which we are all in on our own political conviction. However, I believe that the need for a large-scale restructuring of the labour market is something that binds us. In my view, it is also very important that we build on a direction that I share, namely that we should do something about insecure work or flex contracts, which certainly people with less education are often against their will. I would, however, urge that the Borstlap Committee's balance sheet be maintained: a more level playing field, with basic security for all workers. 'Cause we can't cut that scissors anymore. We need to make sure that we do something for employees about flex contracts with zero-hour calls. I am pleased that this cabinet is taking the first steps. I'm the first to acknowledge that we're still a long way from being here. But we also need to help all those entrepreneurs, especially the small ones, who are simply not willing to give a contract of indefinite duration at the moment. The Borstlap Committee was clear on that: if you put that out of the box, everything else will not work. I hope that this message from Mr Borstlap will be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	The shooter's pits. I am very curious how D66 looks at fiscal equality. Because at the moment,zzp'ers enjoy a lot of benefits. Is D66 also for tax equalization, so that we all pay and simply pay taxes for our education, our ways and our care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	First of all, I also noticed this morning some sums on Supereconomy that this is partly happening. But in my view, you are referring here to the tax entrepreneurship facilities, such as the self-employed deduction. By the way, this cabinet is already doing something there. My line is always that I think you should make work pay more for everyone. We ourselves had the idea of introducing, in addition to the self-employed deduction, a tax advantage for employees, so that the playing field becomes more level, but so that the self-employed are not affected in the wallet. That's what I find interesting. As far as I'm concerned, Mrs Van Brenn makes a justified bridge. If you make the financial playing field a bit more equal and also make some basic securities less dependent on exactly what type of contract you have, whether it's a flex contract or working as a self-employed person, then the space to let those who really choose to work independently do so in a way that fits very well with our new form of social security and above all fits in with how they want to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	Yesterday I was briefed by someone of 20 years old who had an intermediate year and went to pick apples. He was allowed to be there as azzp'er. He was calculated exactly how much he would have to earn in order to obtain the optimal tax exemption. So he pays zero taxes. I think that's something we shouldn't want in this country. Mr. Klaver spoke of solidarity. In my opinion, it is important, also for everyone who participates, that we all build the Netherlands together, pay together and then join together in solidarity if someone gets an accident or if someone is going to have something wrong. Then how does D66 look in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	I tried to answer that earlier. Making the financial level playing field between employees and the self-employed is a direction that I support and I understand. But I think that's one more thing. It is sometimes said that people opt for self-employment purely for tax reasons. Well, I dare everyone to show some numbers about that. This debate could use some facts on that point, as I would say to the Minister, because I think this applies to very few people. But that doesn't affect your point. Yeah, we're making a more level playing field, as far as I'm concerned, in such a way that working for employees pays more. That would be the solution direction. Well, then this will do you some good. A basic disability insurance for all workers, I understand. That wasn't on my program, but I'd like to cross that bridge. But then I'm gonna ask you a little bit, and not like some kind of wood-rope "you what, I what," but... I also think that we can no longer say to a self-employed person: you can no longer be self-employed, because you do so for improper reasons. I have some difficulty with that line of argument at all. But if you make the playing field more financially equal, with a basic disability scheme, then you can do more justice to the preferences of a lot of people who like to work as self-employed, without the risks that Mrs Van Brenn warns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mr Van Weyenberg continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	You have a triangle: make fixed contracts more accessible to employees who want to, the approach of flex and significantly continue on the line of the Labour Market Act in balance and self-employed. If you do that, I think you can achieve the new balance, as Mr Borstlap points out. I have a request for the Minister. That's about the facts about independent enterprise. I hear a lot of excesses. I'm against that. My group also supported a minimum rate for people who are not self-sufficient at all. But now it seems like everyone who works as a self-employed person decided on Friday to start working as a self-employed person on Monday, because it pays better. I want to make sure that in our attempt to tackle excesses, my group supports that excesses are made to practice and the norm. I think that does wrong to a lot of self-employed people. I would ask the Minister to load this debate with some facts towards the cabinet response. How often does that happen? I am not in favour of people jumping out of employment for tax reasons or because they do not have to do services. When I happened to mention this on Twitter, I came across a lot of self-employed people who said that they like to be hired to work shifts in the nights. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this debate needs some facts. I call on the Minister to deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr Van Weyenberg is asking for facts in this debate. I would like to ask him a question about the Borstlap Committee's report and its interpretation. One of the facts is that Mr Borstlap warns against a proliferation of insecure contracts. One of the facts is that the trade union movement has responded. One says that some of these measures are not going to reduce uncertainty, but are going to redistribute it to employees. Another union even responded by saying that it would be a historical mistake. My question to Mr Van Weyenberg is whether, after reading those reports, he agrees with me that it is time to return to the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	I agree that you make permanent jobs more accessible to employees. I also agree that we should promote flex better. I still find it extremely disappointing that your group, together with some of your left-wing colleagues, voted against the Labour Market Act in balance. Because he does deal with payroll, he does make flexwork more expensive and he does make strict demands on call contracts. So, yes, I'd like to talk to you about that. I would add that at the same time we must ensure that entrepreneurs, the SMEs, dare to give people contracts for an indefinite period of time. Taking one of the two sides of that medal is really an illusion. Those are not my words, but Mr Borstlap's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	I do have a problem with this, because this is not about taking one of the two sides of the coin. The point is that there are now two very clear reports which in fact deal with the decades-long neoliberal further dismantling of workers' rights. These reports deal with the idea that it would all get better for everyone, the more flex and the more uncertainty there would be. That's not the case, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Therefore, once again my question: do you share the conclusion of Borstlap, among others, that the safe work should be the norm again? Just to be safe, I am not saying that there should be no more self-employed people and that everyone should be an employee. I'm not saying that. Do you share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	Yes, and that is not new for my group. My election program said, "Make sure you make the job more accessible, and get on top of the flex that's gone crazy," better praise that. That's where we can find each other. We'll hang out for a long time. The only thing I am saying is that we will have to do something, so that the entrepreneur dares to offer the contract again for an indefinite period. And that's where you're gonna drop out. I'm sorry, because then this isn't gonna work. Once again, I am not saying that, but that is at the heart of the Borstlap Committee's report. I think that's vulnerable. We're not magicing it away. So, yeah, we're gonna price and yeah, we're gonna deal with flex. We make flex contracts more expensive. You voted against! I still find that incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	Finalizing, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr. Van Weyenberg is getting a little furry right now. Some parts of the WAB are positive. We have taken initiatives in this area before. Some of them have been incorporated into that law. That's really good, fine! The SP's been working on that for years. Mr Van Weyenberg knows that too. But there are also bad things in the SAB, for example that people can be dismissed more easily and that uncertainty increases. Forgive us for warning of this, especially now with the reports of Borstlap and the WRR in hand. That is why we did not agree to the flex law which makes the work even more uncertain. It is precisely these reports that argue that it is necessary to ensure that permanent work, certainly work, becomes the norm again. Not only do I find it vulnerable, Mr Van Weyenberg, that is a word that Mr Van Weyenberg is using, but I find it particularly disappointing that Mr Van Weyenberg insists on the idea that if we do something on the one hand, we must also break down workers' rights on the other. Mr. Van Weyenberg, that has been a historic mistake. It would please you if you could see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	For the record, my own election programme already said that it should be more commended for flex. And the words that you also have to make it more attractive for entrepreneurs to give a permanent contract, I didn't come up with here. That is what Mr Borstlap literally said in the discussions with the Chamber in front of your colleague. You don't want to hear that. It's okay. You actually blame me for following up on Hans Borstlap's words by saying that I ignore his report. Then you have really heard a different presentation from me from Mr Borstlap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	In my view, Mrs Marijnissen's question was not at all so difficult and treacherous and could even be answered with a simple 'yes'. That is the question: does D66 also consider that, as Borstlap puts it, certain work, fixed work should be the norm again; yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	I believe that workers who wish to choose should be given that opportunity again. If we continue on the road for the past ten years, that steady job is something you'll still hear on the birthdays grandpa talking about. We shouldn't have that. But to make sure that you turn that tide, we will indeed have to be much stricter against all kinds of flexwork. We have taken the first steps in this respect with the Labour Market Act in balance, but I agree with you that this needs to go further. But if you say we don't have to do anything to get employers to dare to return to that permanent job, then I'm afraid it's not gonna work. And that's my answer. And by the way, there's a little bit going on here that I was afraid of. This is cherrypicking. The Borstlap Committee's report says you have to do both. You may disagree with that, but you must say so. But you cannot say that I depart from the Borstlap Committee if I agree with one of the core conclusions of the Borstlap Committee. Finally. I fully agree with Mr Asscher that there is still a great deal to be done when it comes to tackling freaked-out flex. I totally agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	For years, D66 was the champion of glorifying the ideal of flex. I find it commendable in D66 and in particular in Mr Van Weyenberg that he says here: I see it differently now; it cannot be done. I'm not asking you to pick a cherry. I ask: do you agree with one of Borstlap's main conclusions that fixed work, certainly work, should be the norm? That's a real yes-no question. I'm not asking him if he disagrees with other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	I fully agree with that for workers who want to do so. So the answer is yes. But I would add that Mr Borstlap says that in order to achieve that, we will not only be dealing with flex contracts, but we will also have to ensure that the SME entrepreneur has the courage to return to that fixed contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	In conclusion, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thanks for the answer. So the answer is yes. Then, of course, you can see how to involve that employer. What's it gonna take to reward that? But then it is not at the expense of security. That's the exchange that's actually out of time. And then you say, "Sure work is the norm, and we're gonna make it attractive to companies."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	Sure, but at a time when people are changing jobs faster, we will also have to make it easy to say goodbye once in a while if it really isn't going to happen, if there really isn't a job. That is what Mr Borstlap says, I think, quite rightly. Because if you don't, what happens now will happen. The work is there for years. And yet, from flex contract to flex contract, because that little entrepreneur just says: Mr. Van Weyenberg, Mr. Asscher, I dare not offer that contract. And we have to reverse that trend. That's not gonna get you half the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	If we say that it will be the norm again, that we need to make it possible for more employers to employ people, then we need to have an extra focus on the bottom of the labour market. When it comes to flex, the biggest problem is the lowest paid jobs. If we look at what is the great bottleneck for employers, it is often not even in the sphere of social security, at least when it comes to protection against dismissal, which the Borstlap Committee, for example, is talking about, but it is simply about the cost of labour. Is Mr Van Weyenberg also prepared to look into it to ensure that it is cheaper to employ these people? Besides, I'm not talking about getting them a lower salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	No, I didn't think Mr Klaver meant that either. I agree. The low-income advantage, introduced by the person who stood before you on the interrupt microphone, has a number of major vulnerabilities, but it was intended to make it more attractive for an employer to employ people around the minimum wage. My group has also supported this. We can have a debate on the minimum wage, where I think we can also find each other in part, but that does not really help with the question you are asking. Your election program had interesting variants around the employers' contributions. So, yes, you should look at that, too. We are always talking about employees, but my group has also supported a minimum rate for self-employed workers, because we see people who are not going through life of their own free will. On the Delivereo example, I think this whole Chamber agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	I find that interesting, because I was mainly referring to employers' contributions. I see real problems there, which makes it difficult for small businesses to meet all these obligations. I am pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg states that, if we look at that labour market, we should also look at the whole structure of premiums. How else can we divide that up? There is a huge progressivity, well huge, there is a progressiveness in our tax system, but our premium system is almost degressive, and that is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	Yes, in which we naturally build social security up to a certain ceiling of income. Well, that's what it's all about. In practice, the solution is always unruly. It's a search. If we were to take steps around the minimum wage, I think this question would only become more pregnant. Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the form of contract, but as far as I am concerned we have not talked much about education and development. That is the other major breakthrough of the Borstlap report. This is in a number of areas, for example in the area of learning rights. I think that's really interesting. How can we do that from day one in a way that is also fair, including for people who do not go to university for five years, but who want to follow that study or retraining later? How do we make that possible? Should we not focus this transition fee on what it is intended for, namely real retraining? But also: what do we do with people who lose their jobs? I really think that's a trend break. I am very pleased that this cabinet has provided extra money for personal services for people who are becoming unemployed. If you look a little further back, we really need to invest extra in people who lose their jobs, so that they can take the step back to work as soon as possible. This whole reform of education is crucial to me. We've done life long enough. It is now really important to invest in this. I call on the Cabinet to really get off the beaten track and be creative. I see real opportunities here, also looking at the Scandinavian models, who manage to get people who lose their jobs back to work really faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you very much for your speech. Mr De Jong has the floor on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Can I ask you one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	Yeah, I'll let you. Mr Van Weyenberg is returning to the chair and Mr Asscher is still interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	My bad, Chairman, I'm sorry. One of the agreements in the pension agreement is that there will be disability insurance for self-employed persons. We agree on that, too. The deal is it has to be affordable. If that compulsory insurance comes and you don't arrange anything so clients pay or contribute, my fear is that it's not affordable for the self-employed. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me and is he prepared to ask the Minister with me to investigate how you can make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	Yes, we are awaiting a proposal. I've been struck by the idea of doing this for all workers. That is still the real dot on the horizon, even after the opinion of the Borstlap Committee. I see Mr Asscher nodding happy. Just the cutting with scissors is getting worse. The question is how do we make it affordable? For starters, I'm hoping it'll be something with a bounty that doesn't go through the roof. One of the reasons that many self-employed people are not insuring themselves at the moment is that they cannot insure themselves because it is too expensive. This proposal should also provide a solution to this problem. So I hope the premium is not too high. With you, we will have to ensure that self-employed people are able to pay that premium. I thought a minimum rate was a good idea. There are concerns about whether that is not too bureaucratic. Let us look for ways to ensure that this is not only at the expense of the net income of the self-employed. I'm kind of looking to see if I can get it paid off by the client in practice. For example, what do we do for all those people who work for individuals? I want them to be able to do the same. But the fact that the premium has to be affordable is clear. And that also means that you have to get a rate where you can pay it out, that's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	I am very pleased with this answer. You can easily calculate that if you earn €20,000 to €25,000 per year as a zzp'er and there will be a premium for a, even limited, disability insurance, which can be between €100 and €200 per month. People can't just miss that. You're gonna have to think of something to get the client to pay, in any way, because if you let others pay it, it's gonna scare the labour market back. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that there are still many practical problems and difficult puzzles to think of. Let us not choose now either, by definition, but ask the Minister to find out about these different variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	And really have an eye for affordability. I also hope that the proposal from the Foundation will take account of affordability. Moreover, there is still ordinary money on the shelf from the measures relating to the self-employed deduction. In the future, this will generate money that will remain available to the self-employed. This could also be a possible source of affordability. I also hope that, apart from this particular proposal and the agreement that we have made, we can actually make sure that we do something for all workers, because that is what I would really like most.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	Really rounding up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	I am told that Mr Van Weyenberg does not impose taboos or blockades on the various...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	That would also be very inconsistent after my own input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	...to solve this problem. It has to be affordable. You want to give self-employed people something that really helps them. So let's ask the minister to look in all the space that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you. I got distracted for a second. I saw Mr De Jong in the starting blocks, but Mrs Tielen will be the first to speak on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr. Chairman. In preparation for a debate I always ask people from my sounding board groups the question: what do you think first when I say...? In this case, it was natural work. I give a short anthology of the results: salary, money making, education, promotion, paperwork, career, working atmosphere, colleagues, satisfaction, and getting started. That is exactly what the VVD has been saying for decades: work is so much more than a way to provide your income. Work offers structure, social contacts, appreciation and development of your talents. Well, that's not a theory, but it's hard practice, so that's what conversations are all about. The hardest practice is also that some workers do not only have positive associations at work. MKB entrepreneurs who are awake to the concerns about sick staff, where they feel personally involved and in which they fear major financial risks. Employers who can't find good people. Workers who don't dare dream about a new home without a permanent contract. Workers who have registered with the Chamber of Commerce, but for whom it appears that they hardly earn enough as a zzp'er. Work is of value and must also be of value in the future, for the individual people, for the organisations in which they work and for the economy of this country. Mr. Chairman. Today's labour market is barely up to the challenges of today, let alone tomorrow's. Technological developments, ageing, the knowledge-based economy, social media, globalisation: just a few trends that change jobs, markets and businesses, and change people themselves. And that while the labour market is rigid and complex and the risks are high. As a counterweight, employers and workers need more flexibility to manage these risks and to respond more easily to opportunities. The VVD supports the analyses and I consider the consistency of the recommendations contained in the reports to be very important. Coherence and balance are needed between employer and employee, between risks borne by individuals, by companies and by society, between security and manoeuvrability. I have been somewhat annoyed by the one-sided statements made by a number of parties in this Chamber. Before I had a good overview of the advice, old slogans were taken out of the reports. Too bad, because instead of moving the labour market forward to the 21st century, the parties, with this kind of statement, are putting the measures in reverse, back to the 1900s.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	I have a question for Mrs Tielen. I think she is right to say that the risks should be balanced. Now I have a very specific question, which is about the zero-hour contract. If you're talking about risks in balance, I think the zero-hour contract is always one of the real excesses of the flipped flex. Does Mrs Tielen agree with me that we need to get rid of this zero-hour contract quickly, also in the light of Borstlap's statements that flexibilisation is not only bad for people, but also for the economy, which the VVD will certainly appeal to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	What I think we should watch out for is now putting little things in a big bite. For some people, a zero-hour contract is very nice, because it allows them to agree with their employer on how to classify their weeks a month later because of their need for flexibility. At the same time, it is not nice for other people, for example people looking for a mortgage and mortgage provider. Let us not be tempted to impose a mass rule for small things all the time. Let's analyze who we're talking about and who it's good for or not good for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	Call it small! There are a lot of people who have a zero-hour contract and live in uncertainty all the time. In essence, I find it a strange word: zero-hour contract. Then you think: fine, a contract, I have certainty! But you have zero certainty and zero is nothing. So you have a certainty of nothing with a zero-hour contract. I don't think that's a little thing to light out. Now, if there's something that symbolizes that freaked-out flex, which the WRR and Borstlap say we should take a step back, that's the zero-hour contract. Isn't that what the VVD could at least embrace?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	No, because I'm not gonna take any action right now. I think we have a major debate. So we're going to see how things work out and how things don't. Again, for some people that lack of certainty is a big problem, a nightmare. It's fun for other people. We have just started a number of things with the Labour Market Act in balance, which entered into force in January of this year, to make sure that the mantra is definitely less secure and flex less flexible and that people who are now on zero-hour contracts, after a year I think, get an offer based on their average working time. So instead of Mrs Marijnissen taking one thing out again and saying 'we have to get rid of it', I say: we have gotten rid of it in part, Mrs Marijnissen. Let us look again at the broad lines of the labour market, which really must be a step forward in order to serve our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u95	Finalizing, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u96	And let the joke be that Borstlap is very clear in his analysis, precisely to help the economy move forward. Let us focus on that and forget the uncertainty for the people, because if I may believe Mrs Tielen, there are also a lot of people who are very keen to do so themselves. No, Mrs. Tielen, those people are looking for control over their work and their working hours. No one's looking for an insecure existence. At least I don't know those people, especially not among all those people who are on a zero-hour contract. That's not a thing to pick out. I specifically ask you this because it is such an excess in everything, I think. I also heard Mr Van Weyenberg say that it is precisely these excesses that need to be removed. That zero-hour contract is an excess in everything, isn't it? I simply find it very disappointing that Mrs Tielen does indeed remain flexible in her own mantra, which is 'faster and more flexible.' I'll leave that mantra on her account. Those reports just show that we have to change course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u97	No. I really do not agree with Mrs Marijnissen. She also blames me for something I just didn't say. People who need security must be able to be sure of a certain level of work and a certain level of income. Agreed. But there are also people who want to fill that out in a different way. You just have to have an eye for that. The fact that you do not know these people, oh no, sorry, President, that Mrs Marijnissen does not know those people, is not, of course, an argument of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u98	I am so curious whether the honourable Member of the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u100	... or Mrs Tielen has met people in her own sound group who would love to be an employee, to be able to work less hours and get less pay, in other words, that they would actually be a flex worker with less certainty. Do you know people in your sound group who applaud that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u101	I especially know people in my sound group who would like to work for a while. During the budget debate I also received a motion that would allow people working part-time and not the rest of their lives, but a certain period, to make more hours, to do so. This is also a certain form of flex, which should in any case be more able to be discussed between the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u102	You know what annoys me so much? That is the fact that Mrs Tielen points out here that the value of work is so incredibly important for the VVD. But if we read Mr Borstlap's report correctly, we will find that there is no report at all that argues for value of work. It indicates that they see a flex future for everyone. They say it's easier for an employer to fire employees. It's hard for you to look, but you probably read the report. It says that in a moment, without having a little discussion or anything about it, an employer can simply say: my company is not doing so well; I'm just knocking out half the hours right now. Well, we should all be happy about that. Is that the value of work the VVD has in mind, just as people crave a little security, a little financial security? Those people have seen for years that the purchasing power vows are not fulfilled by the VVD. Now there's a report that the VVD says I can embrace. Is this the value of work the VVD stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u103	First of all, I believe that last month's purchasing power promise was partially fulfilled, but we were not going to have that conversation today. I also said to Mrs Marijnissen that I too do not get the same warmth from every paragraph, every paragraph in the Borstlap report. Maybe you're touching one right now, and I'm wondering if it's such a good one. You're trying to push me into something that I would love very much, when I didn't say that. What I like about the reports, both from the Committee on Employment, namely the Borstlap Committee and the Scientific Council, is that the total value of work and the value of our labour market is taken into account. It looks at how we should or should not consider things in conjunction. Today, as I said to Mrs Marijnissen, we are not going to highlight individual measures and say: we are going to do that or we are not going to do that. We're on the main lines right now. Let me give you a few main points. I have a few more questions for the Minister in a moment. In the end, however, it is precisely this value of work that is important, for every individual and for our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u104	In conclusion, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u105	What is so very important for those at home is that he sees for years that the purchasing power promises are not being kept, that he can barely keep his head above water and that we are now having a debate in plenary on workers' rights. The VVD does not distance itself from part-time dismissal here. He doesn't say, "I don't want to." He doesn't say to the minister: "Get rid of that report when it comes to that. I just don't want to. At a time when we can finally make choices that are in favour of employees, I am not going to put forward something so insecure; we are simply not going to do that." Why is it always the case that, when there is a problem somewhere, there is a problem, with those freaked out flex people who simply have a job, they have to suffer? Why is that? And why don't you take a hard break from that now? If you do, then your words have value. But you won't. So that whole siege story of "a job must have a value" is bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u106	I leave that qualification to Mr De Jong. I just responded to that, so I'm not gonna do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u107	Of course, this is also a difficult debate for the VVD, so it is only to be praised that Mrs Tielen is standing there and defending the VVD position. It's kind of exciting where the VVD is now. Not so long ago, independence and flex were the norm we had to strive for. My question is therefore: does the VVD now support the principle that fixed work, especially work, should be the norm? That would really be a relevant change and good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u108	I think that this is also a somewhat difficult debate for Mr Asscher, since he himself has been responsible for that labour market in a different position for five years. In that respect, we may be able to shake hands later. Let's do that physically too! The permanent job is still actually the norm. I don't know the percentage exactly by heart, but about 65% of the people working in the Netherlands have permanent jobs. So a steady job is the norm. The only thing I want to protect from is that we say that everyone must have a permanent job and that we secure it. The world is changing, jobs are changing, markets are changing, and people are changing, too. There are also a lot of people who don't want to work endlessly. I therefore believe that we should leave room for entrepreneurship and for companies to respond to opportunities. I recognize that connection with the Borstlap Committee's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you for referring to my previous job. In all the pursuit of security I was opposed by the VVD. It's a new time; it's changing. We've heard Dijkhoff in the General Reviews. Is the VVD ready to say whatever you heard D66 say: no, we didn't get a good look at that? Sure and steady work must be the norm again, with all the difficulties it entails, with all the help we have to give companies. Or do you persist in neoliberal orthodoxy that it is all nonsense, that it is not necessary and that it belongs to the past? In 1900, what you're referring to, you had day laborers, people without rights, people without permanent contracts. You didn't have a collective agreement then. Progress in certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u110	I don't know where this neoliberal orthodoxy comes from. I don't think the VVD ever said flex should be the norm. What the VVD wants is economic progress. What the VVD wants is that entrepreneurs and workers can move forward and that we can drive the economy forward. That's what we really need over the next few years. The labour force is only shrinking and the costs of care and AOW are rising. So we need to make the economy grow. This means that people must be able to have jobs and people must be able to undertake. That coherence is needed. For a lot of people it's also nice to have security in their lives. If that is the answer Mr Asscher is looking for, then I will give it to him. We don't have dogmas. We've never had one, but now it's less than ever. In the end, it's about where we have to go. This means that we must move the labour market towards this century and ensure that we are up to the challenges of today and tomorrow. And there's quite a few of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u111	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u112	Borstlap says that economic growth is at risk, precisely because of the lack of security. More certainty is needed for everyone who works. That's gotta be the norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u113	And that certainty is also needed for entrepreneurs and people who provide that work, as Mr Klaver said so beautifully earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u114	I was going to say that Mrs Tielen is continuing her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u115	I don't think so. In a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u116	I see Mr. Clover standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u117	If we could label one party as a friend of the big business, that would of course be the VVD. I see that she is trying to keep a balance in her speech, even when it comes to flexibilisation and how it has gone through. But is it also prepared to address these large companies, which are now using all the escape routes to undress and wrestle workers? And to warn them, stop it, or we're gonna change our laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u118	I think the VVD is a party that is mainly a friend of everyone who is enterprising in life. That can be an entrepreneur, or an entrepreneur with a large company or just someone in a job who wants to participate in this economy. You have heard my party leader say before that we really do not want to give rücksichtslos any more advantages than the other. So I don't know exactly what you're asking. But let us be sharp so that we can move that labour market forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u119	Even though you didn't know exactly what I was asking, you gave...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u120	...a nice answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u121	Well, a comprehensive answer. I'm gonna try to say it a little more clearly. When we talk about the labour market, it is about what responsibilities everyone has. You have responsibilities as an employee, but also as an employer. I am sure we can make better laws as legislators, but then there will still be all kinds of escape clauses. I see that employers, these big companies, are trying to keep labour costs, so the costs for employees, as low as possible, and that they are trying to maximise flexibility. In other words, they see labour as a huge cost. That too must change. Then it helps when the VVD addresses these companies and indicates that they have a responsibility, that employees belong to them and that they are not just a cost item, but a valuable part of this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u122	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u123	Is the VVD going to appeal to these big companies? It is not the SMEs that deal with their employees in this way; it is the large companies that see them as disposable products.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u124	Not all big companies, either. So let me put something in order. Let us stop all those who are involved, and stop pretending that employers and workers have purely conflicting interests. Companies, no matter how small or large they are, are places where people work together and work together to satisfy customers and grow our economy. Entrepreneurship and an entrepreneurial attitude are indispensable, and there must be valuable work, appreciation and appropriate remuneration for all people, with fewer hassles and fewer risks for employers. These are our starting points when we read the reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u125	A final interruption, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u126	Yeah, rounding it up. I simply asked a question that was not very complicated: are you going to address these companies? Are you going to call on companies to take their responsibility and to deal better with their employees and not use every escape route that is going to be in every law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u127	Your question is clear. Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr. Klaver does all kinds of insinuations, which he hopes I will endorse. I think Mr. Klaver listened as well as I did to Mr. Dijkhoff's speech during the General Political Reviews. I'd like to refer to that. Then you know my answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mrs Tielen continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the main lines I mentioned, the VVD looks forward to the effects of the building blocks from the opinions. We have a number of questions for the Minister. The first one. Current advice assumes that workers work and continue to work in one way, while the practice is that people combine jobs, undertake alongside a job or return to employment after a few years of entrepreneurship or vice versa. To what extent does the Minister take this into account in his work? Second. There is already a lot going on:zzp legislation, a web module, agreements on disability insurance. I would like to make a commitment that the Minister, in his written response to the opinions, will also make the link with these routes concrete. The above-mentioned opinions are above all qualitative, but, on the contrary, figures are needed to make choices. We have just heard about this in a few debates. Is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber in writing about the quantitative principles he uses before we make choices? The advice of Borstlap does not mention the different legal forms from which entrepreneurs andzzp'ers work. Is the Minister prepared to undertake additional research into the different legal forms and their influence on the problems and solutions? Last but definitely not least: lifelong learning or, as I like to say, continuing to learn, is an important and explicit part of the advice. The VVD regrets that the STEP scheme will not enter into force until 2022. Would the Minister like to begin with a bigger step forward? Mr. Chairman. The future of work is for the VVD about the value of work for anyone who works or wants to work, in any form, in any occupation, for any employer, client or customer, because we need everyone to keep pushing the Netherlands forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you. However, there is still an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u132	Let me check with Mrs Tielen: before she started her questions to the cabinet, I heard her say that the VVD felt that employers' risks should be reduced. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u134	I'm just asking just to be sure, because I couldn't actually believe it. In my view, we have just two clear reports which are not so much complaining about the risks of employers as analysing the fact that in recent decades the risks have shifted enormously from employers to employees. Does Mrs. Tielen agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u135	In my view, the same reports also mention employers, especially small employers, who have major financial risks in the case of, for example, staff disease. If you have a barber shop with four people, and one is ill for a long time, it is not only very annoying for the colleagues, but also creates a huge financial risk. We have tried to do something about this in recent years, but that high financial risk is still there, and it is also much bigger than for companies in other countries. Before Mrs Marijnissen asks her follow-up question, I would like to refer to what I said earlier in my speech, namely that there must also be coherence between the risks borne by individuals, by companies and by society. In my view, we should also look more closely at Mr Borstlap's proposals with figures in mind, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u136	In my opinion, we find each other a long way to go in terms of SMEs and the problems faced by SMEs, small businesses, when an employee becomes ill. The SP has long argued in favour of finding solutions to this problem; you know that. But I think it is so very one-sided and, therefore, very regrettable that you say that the risks to employers have become too great. You say it must be in balance, but the analysis of the reports is exactly that it has gone through. You say it's annoying. Of course, it is annoying for employers and especially for SMEs who have that problem to solve. I hear you talking about the economy, but I hear so little about what it means...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u137	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u138	Well, my question is why I hear Mrs Tielen so little about the problems in the lives of working people who are dealing with an uncertain contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u139	I think I've said a lot about that. Mrs Marijnissen and I recognise each other here, only the measures that Mrs Marijnissen wants are fairly one-sided and draw the coherence from the report. And it's not a little thing, these employers. The vast majority, the vast majority of people working in the Netherlands, who are SME entrepreneurs, have fewer than ten staff. We're not talking about big companies. They really only represent a fraction of the total. It is good for the SP to make only one big thing of it, but most companies in the Netherlands are smaller than ten employees. And for those employers, it's nice if the risks get a little less high and the paperwork gets a lot less complicated. That's what I hear in my sounding board group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u140	Finalizing, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u141	Here comes Mrs Tielen's sounding board group again. But then again; I am very sorry. Your image is too one-sided. Let's just get that economy out of there. It's like Borstlap saying it helps the economy when the weather becomes the norm that people definitely have a job. But I totally miss that point in your analysis. You say that we must enter the next century with the labour market. But that's like one of the points of Borstlap, isn't it? He says it's good for the economy when people experience more security, when certain work becomes a norm again. Why don't you just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u142	I don't think I've denied that. In addition, this is one of the opinions in Borstlap's opinion. "Among other things," said Mrs Marijnissen herself. So we need to look at it in conjunction. If Mrs Marijnissen has heard me say too little about this, I would ask her to look again at the Acts, because I do not think she is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you. Mr De Jong has the floor on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you, Mr President. The PVV strongly opposes the radical reform drive of the WRR and, above all, of the foreign Borstlap Commission. When reading the reports, you notice that the researchers have never had a real job. They are all professors who have completely lost contact with society from their ivory tower. Apparently they have never had to get their hands dirty in a sink kitchen or buffalo in a store in order to be able to pay the bills at the end of the month. Apparently, they have no idea what it's like to be a hard-working employee or self-employed person who has barely managed to survive. Wondering what he's still doing it all for. Who has to see every time that the purchasing power promises do not come true, but then everything becomes more expensive and more expensive. That security in his job needs to be able to face some of the monthly financial stress. The Borstlap Committee does not see that at all. Those hardworking Dutch people see that there is another discussion about their rights in this Chamber. Again, as we have seen in the debate on the pension system, proposals are being made under the guise of modernisation to take away the rights of hard-working workers and self-employed workers. Take away WW rights. Take away security from dismissal relief. Taking benefits for the self-employed. Take it away, take it away and take it away again. It's all in Borstlap's report, and it's crazy. Why always take everything away? Why put hardworking Dutch people in the corner where the blows fall? Why pretend you're worried, but then handle the bone axe? Mr. Chairman. While people crave financial air and security, an employer like Borstlap will soon be able to fire employees more easily, make them work less hours and thus pay less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u145	Was there anything positive in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u146	That's always one of those things here in Lower House. When a report like this comes up, you have to focus on those open doors all the time. Of course we have to do something about flex work. Of course, we need to do something about the flexibilisation that has gone through. But I did not hear you say what was next in the report, namely that we are going to restrict the rights of the employee even further. That's what I'm focusing on, pretty much the only one here in the Chamber. You can laugh, but certainly the VVD just recorded it for the report of Borstlap, which says that an employee is instantly just a flex worker. It doesn't matter what situation you're in; you lose your rights. That's not what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yes, that is also a way of debating important reports that lie there. I think it was Mr Asscher who spoke first, who spoke about the protection of dismissals, and who felt that we should not touch them. That was an important part of his contribution, and I do not want to fail Mr Asscher, but it was certainly not the majority of his contribution. It was precisely the question of which direction one wants to take in limiting flex. To be perfectly honest, that's the first time in a very, very long time it's been put there, so I was just curious. These are all things we don't want either. Lots of parties don't want them. But what do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u148	Those are the open doors of that chestlap. Of course it's gone through. That's what I just reported. Why should I give an applause to the Borstlap Committee because it finds that the labour market has slipped into flexibilisation? Why do I have to give them a round of applause when they say you have to deal with bogus self-employment? Why do I have to give them a round of applause? Seems pretty logical to me. What doesn't make sense to me is that you're then going to be at the rights of employees to solve those problems. I don't think it makes any sense for you to take the self-employed deduction, take things away from people, make it easier for you to fire people, take them away from security. I don't get it at all, in no way do you, if there's a problem, people who need security lose their security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u149	Finalizing, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u150	You don't have to applaud me for any commission. All I'm asking is, what do you want? Your plea sounds like you want to keep the labour market as it is today, but that is not good either, because then there are too many people who are not in social security, who have far too low incomes and who are forced to be independent. That's why I'm asking, what do you want? You've been in the Lower House for almost ten years now. Maybe it's time not to formulate what's boo and bah, but what you really want to change for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u151	Oh, my gosh, when we're talking about debate techniques... Mr. Klaver could use his ears. Over the last ten years, we have made many proposals to address flexibilisation. For example, we believe that temporary work should always be temporary. That's what the Borstlap Committee says. Well, let's hear it! That's what we've been saying for ten years, and even longer than that. I don't have to underline that here, do I? What is now before us is that there is another debate in the Lower House about the rights of employees. It's just being said here in the Chamber, "You know what? There is a problem with that labour market. We solve it by creating problems on the other hand and making everyone a flex worker." Everyone has a big mouth that we are against flexwork or at least slipped through flexwork. Everyone in the room says that. Then comes Borstlap and says: we make everyone a flex worker. And then Mr. Klaver is applauding? I don't get it. Mr President, I shall continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u152	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u153	Just like that, from one day to the next, an employer can say to an employee: you go to work less, you get less pay and you figure it out. That's weird, right? Why doesn't this minister immediately distance himself from that? Why does he say that the report is beautiful and balanced? Hasn't he taken the people enough already? Do ordinary people have to get into any more trouble? It's a real shame. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there are problems with the flexibilisation that has gone through. All these numbers show that, too. We've been warning about it for years. Of course, we must move towards a labour market where permanent employment is the norm. Workers want to get the security that is part of an employment relationship and even tackle false self-employment. But the problems of flexibility in the labour market cannot be solved by giving workers less security and easier to fire, by making everyone a flex worker, because that is what the Borstlap Committee is proposing, and that is madness. We are therefore opposed to part-time dismissal, further relaxation of dismissal rights and deterioration of WW rights. Leave employees and self-employed persons alone. Solve the problems where they occur. For example, close the borders for all those profiteers who come to destroy our social security. Take abuse on the labour market. Make flex work less attractive and take false self-employment. But stop taking away your policy and stay away from the rights of employees and self-employed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you for your speech. Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Chairman. Despite the economic boom of recent years and the historically low official unemployment of today, the Dutch labour market is completely out of balance. Almost 2 million people are still out of play for various reasons. Too many people don't get to work. They are too old and already written off by many employers or they have a disability or a non-Dutch name, and that is a reason not to invite them to a job interview. Discrimination on the labour market is and remains persistent. The number of people in the WIA who are disabled is increasing alarmingly and the group of working poor is growing. In terms of employment for people with disabilities, the elderly and migrants, the Netherlands is really bad compared to other neighbouring countries. With investment in retraining and retraining, we are also lagging behind compared to countries around us. Working is very important. It gives meaning to existence, is good for social relations, provides financial security and thus contributes to the well-being and prosperity of man. In particular, the past Cabinets have ensured the austerity of social security and employment protection and the extreme flexibilisation of labour with an unprecedented mess of weak and vague forms of employment. As a result, there is a sharp division between workers with no or only with limited income security and employment protection. Workers are played against each other in this way. The quality of work, prosperity and well-being of people have suffered greatly. We now have two in-depth reports: the report of the WRR and the report of the Borstlap Committee. 50PLUS believes that with these reports in hand, the government should create conditions to bring better employment to the reach of all workers. The three principles, the grip on money, the grip on work and the grip on life and its distribution, should be included in the Monitor Brede Welvaart, as proposed by the WRR, and this should be justified annually. Is the Minister prepared to do this? More than ever, people need income security. Work has to pay off. Work must be rewarded equally for equal work. Everyone must be able to make a decent living, be economically independent of their job, be full-time or self-employed. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this also applies explicitly to people with disabilities. In the opinion of the Committee on Employment Regulation, 50PLUS recognises a number of key points that can help to restore and balance the labour market. A level playing field is indeed needed. As far as we are concerned, labour must indeed be treated in the same way as taxation. It is bizarre that there are many people who do not contribute to the collective burden, but who benefit from it. That undermines our social system. Today, in this main debate, 50PLUS wants to focus on the opportunities we see with these two reports in hand. We ignore the negative points. Above all, we want to make the labour market fairer. Opportunities for everyone, and everyone should also be able to compete at least at the minimum wage. Work must always pay. That is why we are once again advocating an increase in the minimum wage. Put an end to the proliferation of flex contracts. Embrace the idea of the tuition bill for everyone. And again, let everyone participate, including people with disabilities, and then make sure they earn at least the minimum wage. We welcome disability insurance for everyone. We regret that pension is not mentioned here. We think that's a missed opportunity. We think it is very important that the cabinet position on these reports should come out. 50PLUS wants to open the debate, certainly does not want to close doors in advance and certainly not throw away old shoes, such as the current fixed contract. First, we need a bridge now, as far as we're concerned. As far as we are concerned, this bridge is the creation of a decent basic level of labour law and social protection, including training and training for all workers, the current level of which, under the permanent contract, is the starting point. What we need is a contemporary social system with risk-sharing and protection for all categories of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u156	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u157	Yes. For us, security of income is paramount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u158	Thank you. I call Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u159	Mr. Chairman. What kind of country do we want to work in? That is the question the Borstlap Committee is asking us. I would like to broaden that question a little bit. What kind of country do we want to live in? The Christian Union stands for the good life and the good life is certainly not just about work. We stand for a society where there is also room for peace and mutual attention, where people can combine labour and care, where families have breathing space and where more and more work is not the highest goal. Work is more than an economic value. It's a way to develop yourself, to contribute to society. Working is also meaning. It is good to read that the Scientific Council for Government Policy supports this vision of work and that both the WRR and the Borstlap Committee recognise that something has become distorted in our country. The labour market has been wiped out, the gaps have become increasingly large, the differences between fixed and flexible have grown strongly, there is a proliferation of flex constructions and there arezzp'ers who are forced to fall into poverty. The various groups of workers are played against each other on pay and on security. All this has serious consequences. Look at young people, for example. They are forced to start a family later and later, they can't build much and a house is often out of their reach. Those are also the stories we hear when we speak to young people in the framework of Coalition-Y. Older people also have a hard time on the labour market. They no longer come to work or have to work for too long in a heavy occupation. In short, there is something going on in our labour market, which has been going on for years. It is good that both the Borstlap Committee and the WRR expose this. That is why my group appreciates the sharp analysis in both reports and the fundamental questions raised in these reports. Now it's up to us as politics to pick up that glove. When these reports are published, we do not have the luxury of retreating into our own trench, certainly not because that analysis is endorsed from all sides in the reports. If we agree that these gaps exist on the labour market, everyone also understands that we need to take measures to close those gaps. The first is the gap between fixed and flex, but also the gap between practical and theoretical training, the gap between old and young and the gap known as the distance from the labour market. The closing of these gaps is the most important anchor point for my group. It is therefore particularly important that we examine how possible reforms can be developed for all generations. Can the Minister promise that we will be given a generation test for possible reforms? Second. It is essential that there is and remains space to combine work with care. Take care of children, parents or other people around you. This means generous leave arrangements, room for flexible working hours and fairer tax treatment for families in peak hours of life. Does the Minister share this view and how does he view the current arrangements? Third. My group believes it is very important that we pay attention to people with disabilities. This group remains under-exposed in the reports. Can the Secretary of State undertake that there will also be explicit attention for them? Fourth. More balance is also needed because of labour migration. We must get rid of the flex and sham structures that allow migrant workers to compete against low wages and poor conditions with Dutch workers. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Fifth. The Borstlap Committee also proposes to give everyone a personal development budget at birth. Just as many learning rights for everyone. If you get to work soon after an MBO course, you have a right to receive a certain number of years of paid-up learning. How can we quickly start with a small number of experiments to introduce learning rights, for example a virtual learning account for MBOs or for people who are in danger of falling out of the labour market? I'd like a reaction to that, too. Finally, Mr President. In his report, the WRR makes a nice triple: more grip on work, more grip on life, more grip on money. Would the cabinet like to expand the Monitor Brede Welvaart, which is published every year on Responsible Day? Would the cabinet be willing to instruct the CBS to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs Palland has the floor on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Tonight we talk about the future of the labour market, about the value of work to provide your income, to support a family, to develop yourself, to create self-esteem, to be meaningful, to participate in our society. Mr. Chairman. The CDA welcomes the two reports that lie ahead. It is essential that we work on this after today, for employees, employers, entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, agency workers and e.g. the Netherlands. The analysis from the reports is clear and we share it. The laws and regulations of that time no longer fit in with today's labour market. For example, a range of flex contracts has been created which no longer focussed on the regulation of temporary work, but on facilitating competition on working conditions. Labour thus becomes a commodity. The CDA wants to return to the relationship between employer and employee, or where appropriate between client and employee. This also means that when work for the employer is carried out in another undertaking, it must be properly regulated and not by improper triangular constructions or even more parties. For the CDA, it is important that we work towards a fair labour market. We want to move from a race to the bottom to relations and reciprocity. We want employership to be attractive to entrepreneurs again, that employees should not remain in flex contracts but have a perspective on permanent employment and on greater certainty, thatzzp'ers should be given the space and clarity to exercise their profession and make choices in it, but also participate in collective provision, and that people should be able to combine work, private and care and make their own choices. The basic principles are that everyone contributes to collective provision, that competition on working conditions is prevented and that we work towards a more level playing field and a more equal social safety net.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u162	On this point, I would like to give Mr De Jong the opportunity to intervene. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u163	According to the CDA, does it fit for an employer to say to an employee: you have a contract now, but I now decide for you not only that you are going to work less hours, but also where you are going to work; I'm actually going to give you a part-time discharge? Does the CDA agree with that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u164	That is what Mr Van Weyenberg said: I am not hanging up the garlands for that. Those are difficult points. I think that the technical briefing explained exactly what Mr Borstlap meant by that and that there should also be a balance. If we don't want these flex contracts anymore, we need to make the employership attractive. This also includes reciprocity between employer and employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u165	This is where the weather goes horribly wrong. The CDA is in the cabinet. The CDA can say to this minister today: we are not going to do this; of course we are going to deal with advanced flex, because there is a problem there, but we are not going to give employees, where there is no problem, any more uncertainty. Because that's what Breastlap brings out. Chestlap says: if we want to deal with flex, we really need to make sure that people who are not really a problem have less certainty. Surely it can't be that the CDA is for that, that you say, because you're trying to stop flex through, that I'm taking away their rights and security from ordinary workers? Answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u166	I'd like to do that. It's not that caricature, as if an employer could say tomorrow: you're going to work somewhere else. Do you know what's special? We note with each other that the Netherlands is different, for example from other European countries, in terms of flexwork andzzp. We find that a problem with each other, so we have to do something about it. The Netherlands deviates in this respect. The Netherlands also deviates in how we arranged the dismissal and, for example, in employers' costs. If we want to get people back to permanent contracts, we must ensure that it is attractive for SMEs and for the employers of family businesses to hire people. There's a certain reciprocity in that. Of course, that must be guaranteed. And of course we're not saying that part-time dismissal is free to fill in. That's not what Borstlap says either. You should read that, too. If you have alternative examples or would like to propose measures on how we can fill in that internal flexibility and attractiveness of employership, I am open to discussing this with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u167	In conclusion, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u168	The CDA should be open to that employee, who is also looking at this debate after a day's work, buffaloing, in order to be able to pay his bills by the end of the month. He sees that the CDA says: "Maybe it's not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow that the certainty you think you have now becomes more uncertain. As a CDA, I am in favour of taking your rights away from you and taking your security away from you because of the problems surrounding the flex that has been shot through." Why close your eyes to that worker, who, after years of buffaloing, has not had a normal purchasing power development in relation to the economic situation in this country? Why do you say to these people, "You know what? We give you even more uncertainty." Why do you close your eyes and distance yourself from that ordinary employee in the country? Why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u169	I'm not gonna stand back from that at all. It is important that we make the permanent contract more attractive for employees and that we invite employers to do so. People need to be able to get a lot more into these fixed contracts. This must also be backed up by guarantees and guarantees. That's what Borstlap says. You make it a bit of a caricature; I don't want to take anyone's rights. In this country we can also very well shape this with the polder and the trade unions. But if you just say "we're not gonna do flex anymore" and "the fixed contract is the norm" and that's it, we haven't solved anything for that employer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u170	Mrs Palland continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u171	I'd be happy to. We were talking about that more level playing field and that more equal social safety net, for example when it comes to disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u172	However, Mrs Marijnissen still has to do so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u173	Yeah, sorry, Chairman. As a follow-up to Mr De Jong, I would like to mention the last thing Mrs Palland said, namely that we can work things out with the trade unions. But the trade unions have said precisely this point, that part-time dismissal, "This does not help at all to reduce uncertainty. In fact, the only thing that does that is to divide the uncertainty among all workers." So that's a totally counterproductive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u174	I think that we really need to be careful and look carefully at the situation in which this may have been described. Of course, that must be guaranteed. We still have to discuss this with each other. As far as I'm concerned, the main thing is that the fixed contract must be attractive. I too, as an employee, prefer that I temporarily have to work less hours under certain circumstances than that I am on the street because I am stuck in a flex contract because that fixed contract is simply unreachable. We have to work on that with each other. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna talk about the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u175	It's kind of like there's a fire and we're gonna put it out with gas. Of course, the solution for creating more security and bringing the job security closer is not: making all the work insecure. The trade unions are very clear about it. The CNV might have been even clearer about it. He even said: it's a historic mistake if we went down this path. I thought the CDA's argument started quite well. Compliments for that. But I am so sorry that you are not taking a clear stance towards the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u176	I'm not, because this is also part of Borstlap. We want to keep the balance in the building blocks. If you say that you do not like this measure, which I can imagine very well, then we need to see how we can shape the internal flexibility and make it attractive to be an employer with each other. That interest is paramount to us. As long as we don't have a better alternative, I'm not gonna block anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u177	Mrs Palland continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u178	I would've stayed with the disability. The CDA has already advocated in its electoral programme a basic scheme for workers in terms of incapacity for work. The question to the Minister is: could the Aov forzzp's currently working on be an intermediate step or an adaptation to such a basic arrangement? In addition to a basic scheme, the WRR report also writes about a basic job. We find that very interesting. Not for nothing has our scientific institute published a report on this in 2018, with ideas on how such a basic job could be designed. The final piece of social security should not be the assistance, but work with a regular employer, a basic job. How does the Minister, or the Secretary of State, view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u179	There is an interruption by Mr De Jong on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u180	Another very positive thing. It's all so positive. Anyway, if we look at that basic job: in those reports it is said that it does not aim to create a flow to regular work. So the moment you get such a basic job with all the costs involved, it is not the intention to move on to a regular job. Then what the hell is the purpose of that? Are we going to put someone on every street corner just to create the sticker "baseway"? Why is it that every time something comes from Borstlap or the WRR, the CDA is immediately cheering? Why doesn't the CDA take a closer look at the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u181	The basic job is mainly mentioned in the report of the WRR. In my first reaction to the report of the WRR, the item "baseway" jumped out of it. If it's all right, you've heard me critically about that. Because we thought: hey, the basic job, we have ideas about that too, but they are not entirely in line with the suggestions contained in the WRR report. As far as we are concerned, it should indeed be the case that we are helping people who are on long-term assistance to get back to work with a regular employer, in small steps in which work pays off. They shouldn't be doing paid volunteer work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u182	The moment you're on welfare for a long time, something goes wrong. Then either something goes wrong with the municipality or with the person receiving the welfare allowance. It's one of those two. Often it is the case that the municipality does not use the tools it has long and wide. That person can simply indicate: here or there you could work and then we could accompany you here or there. There are plenty of jars to guide those people. And yet it goes wrong. The solution is not to say to the municipality that the tools it already has in the interests of social security and the interests of the person at home will be maintained. No, we're gonna put something new together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u183	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u184	Why doesn't the CDA just say we're using the current tools to help those people get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u185	Because we see that there's a group that needs a push in the back. We want to help that group with a basic job. That's just regular work. That should appeal to Mr De Jong. I know that your colleague, who is standing next to you at the interrupting microphone, may feel differently. But that can help to move on to regular work. I think we can very well find each other in that. I think so, because I can actually hear you saying the same things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u186	Finalizing, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u187	No, I'll tell you why not. I've looked beyond my nose. In The Hague, for example, they have such a basic job. It's called a STiP job, I think. A thousand people got jobs like this. And do you know how many people have flown through? 40! And of those 40, it was only a question of whether they wouldn't have gotten to work without that STiP job either. But they've been working on that for years, and it costs a lot of money. Look at Groningen as well: the same story! There they started with such an idea of a basic job, but it was again not the intention to get those people to work with a regular employer. So these people are offered something and then, at the moment that subsidy stops, they get sidelined. So they didn't get anywhere with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u188	And your question or conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u189	Why aren't you really helping these people? You can say to the municipalities: there are tools and we are going to make sure that these tools reach people when it comes to learning and reintegration obligations. Why do you want to create something that will cost tens of millions of euros extra and which will not lead anyone to a regular job at the end of the journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u190	I will send you the report from our scientific institute, because the beauty of it is that it is not going to cost all that money, because people are just going to get paid for the work they do. They make small steps in it. This is not comparable to the situation in Groningen. I don't know exactly what a STiP job means, but the situation is different. There are different ideas about the concept of the basic job. I have just indicated what our idea is and that is moving on to regular work with a regular employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u191	I think we agree that it's nicer for people to go to work and come home proudly at night. We also agree that people who have been on welfare for a long time are not doing well enough right now. The basic job is a nice idea, if well paid. My question to the CDA is whether a municipality, a school, the police or a playground association can be a regular employer. What does Mrs. Palland mean with a regular employer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u192	The examples you mention can certainly be a regular employer. If they employ people, so they have jobs, then a vacancy they have can also be filled by someone from this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u193	I just mentioned Dennis, who is now a playground manager with welfare benefits. If we make that a basic job, then that would mean that we regard it as real work, as regular work, with a decent income.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u194	You say if we make that a basic job. I think that's where our ideas are running apart. If that playground association employs people and has a vacancy, then Dennis can simply enter a basic job there, then he can get rhythm again and grow from 20 hours to full work again in a regular job. But you say: it is voluntary work or it was a voluntary function, a function that was not there; it does so while maintaining benefit and we are going to pay the statutory minimum wage. That does not seem to me to be the intention of a basic job. When people get rhythmed again or are activated through volunteering, that is very nice, but we do not want to put the legal minimum wage on a voluntary function and thus also put the community spirit under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u195	In conclusion, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u196	If something is real work, with a real regular employer, and we find that socially useful, isn't that just a real job? We don't say to teachers: that job is created; maybe someone is going to teach voluntarily, so let's not do that. No, the idea is right: if we find it socially useful, then we want people to be able to earn their living and then they have a real job. So I don't see the objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u197	The question is: was it already a job or is it someone who helps with something that we find useful? A lot of volunteers do that, too. We shouldn't be making jobs of that all of a sudden. If you mention Dennis' example, I think it is very nice that he is active in the football association, but why should he not then be able to pass on to, for example, a boa education or why should he not join the enforcement organisation? We have a lot of vacancies in this country. We need a lot of people. Some people need a little help getting rhythm back on. In the end, it will be necessary to move towards regular vacancies with ordinary employers, which can, of course, also take place in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u198	Mr. Asscher, I need more than two hands to count your interruptions. So now I'd like to finish at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u199	Sorry, Chairman. My question to the CDA is: is the CDA willing to think about filling basic jobs where you consider governments who choose to create such a basic job, also as a regular employer? With this you help people and help society, near the playground, near the football association.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u200	We are certainly willing to look at different interpretations of the basic job. We are prepared to consider whether this could contribute to the return to regular work. What we really have difficulty with is the creation of functions that are not there, because it is a kind of hidden volunteering or a kind of new Melker orbit. We must learn from this, also because it has not worked sufficiently in the previous period. So we are certainly prepared to look at different interpretations of basic jobs, also because the WRR and the Borstlap Committee are naming that concept, but with this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u201	Mrs Palland continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u202	I had come to my finale, Mr. Chairman. In my maiden speech I was talking about one of the values, namely the willingness for consensus and cooperation between government, employers and employees. That is also the basis of the later Rhineland model. I have to think about that when it comes to the trial after tonight. The Borstlap Committee calls for a broad social alliance to work with the analysis and building blocks in conjunction with each other. My final question is: how does the Minister and/or the Secretary of State view this process and how do they proceed with it? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u203	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Stoffer, speaking on behalf of the Reformed Political Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr. Chairman. Since the year 2000, we have been living in the age of flexible people. That flexible person is a self-reliant individual, who enjoys change and uncertainty. But the recent reports rightly put that ideal in full question. People just thrive in sustainable relationships. This starts in marriage and family, at a stable home for parents and for children. The Borstlap Committee is convincingly demonstrating the importance of sustainable labour relations. That is why the SGP wants to seriously consider the overall package, without giving a blank cheque, so I say in the direction of box-K. How we fill out that check, we can talk about that. Mr. Chairman. Many problems in the labour market are not blind forces of nature, but are the result of political decisions we have taken here. I mention too heavy a burden on employers, too little social protection for all workers and the size of the group of workers in the Netherlands. The government must therefore work towards a friendly employers' environment, greater social protection for all workers and good support for real workers. At the same time, of course, we must not overestimate the role of the government. We do not think that the right to protection against the risk of learning ageing is a good idea, especially if this means that every working person has to go to the career shop every two years. Mr. Chairman. Grip on life is part of good work, according to the Scientific Council for Government Policy. That is why the SGP together with GroenLinks in the last period, I see Mr Smeulders with great pleasure nodding in favour of mourning leave. People should also have the possibility, for example, to devote time to caring for their families or fill in further details. That is why it simply takes room to be a earner or one and a half earner. I say explicitly: do not drive everyone into the labour market full-time. My question to the Minister is whether the reports will make him seriously rethink this. Mr. Chairman. Lately, there's been a lot to do about thezzp'ers. All the previous speakers have spoken about it. There are many loose measures coming towards this group, but does the Minister agree with me that there should be an integrated package of measures forzzp'ers? Because zzp'ers make a very important contribution to the Dutch economy. As far as the SGP is concerned, therefore, we should not oppose them. At the same time, we seezzp'ers who are basically just hidden workers. For example, tax incentives have made them more flexible. We have to prevent that. We need to keep these fiscal rules under review as regards the SGP. Zzp'ers who consciously choose to be independent and who have their things in order and can keep them in order, we have to keep the space. You understand: the SGP is critical of compulsory disability insurance. In his response to the report, does the Minister address the alternative insurance proposed by Borstlap? Is he willing to park the current plans until then? Finally, Mr President. What's next? The Borstlap Committee stresses the importance of forging a social alliance. I would like to make a critical comment. While it is desirable to seek as much support as possible, the 2018 Annual Report of the Council of State clearly explains the objections to agreements and alliances. They often undermine political responsibility. The general interest is then beginning to suffer from the conflict of interest. Does the Minister take this analysis to heart? (NL) Mr President, all in all. I am missing one more thing, namely the profound consequences of free movement within the EU. Does the Minister take this with him and think about a European action plan? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u205	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u206	I will reopen the main debate on the future of work. We need the first term from the government. I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad to be here in your room today. After an exciting debate on integration this afternoon, a debate on the labour market will follow this evening. On receiving the report from the Borstlap Committee two weeks ago, I referred to a column by Sheila Sittalsing at Buitenhof. She said: "The setting up of a committee in politics The Hague is yet another tried and tested method of parking difficult issues out of sight, a kind of bottom drawer of my desk." If that illusion already existed, I can take it out of the world immediately, because difficult issues in this report, but also in the report of the WRR, require reflection and a change of our rules on work. That starts with a broad public debate. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Chamber for the invitation to exchange views with you. I think that a broad-based debate is a good instrument for this. Such a debate is exactly what both reports call for, because there are no easy choices. Let me start with what we agree on. In the direction of both reports, both from the WRR and from the Borstlap Committee, but also in the responses to them, I see a cautious consensus on a shared basis of protection for everyone who works, on less tax differences between forms of work, and on more attention to education and development. I think that's a good starting point. But that doesn't mean we're already here. The Borstlap Committee itself also says: 'The direction is leading, but there is a lot of discussion about the way in which it is implemented and necessary'. Because, once again, there are no easy choices. I also see that many of the measures in the reports are going to hurt. But by sitting directly in the shooter's pits and immediately shouting out what we don't want, we can't get any further. I very much agree with Mr Van Weyenberg and several speakers today. That's why I'd like to open the conversation with you. As far as I am concerned, there are no taboos in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u208	I have a brief and, I think, simple question to the Minister. It is indeed about the reports and the consensus he has appointed in those reports. Does he agree with me and recognize and acknowledge that certain work should be the norm again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u209	When it comes to workers, it is true that certain jobs should become the norm. I think that the Borstlap Committee is pulling three routes apart, the workers, the self-employed and the broadcasting regime, and also outlines three clear routes or lanes for this. I'm sure you do. I found this to be a little worrying in the first term, though, in his analysis, Mr Borstlap does indeed look at both sides of the labour market, namely demand and supply. Part of Mr Borstlap's analysis deals precisely with the risks experienced by employers in the recruitment of workers. It was like you hadn't read that part of the report in the first place. I think that is really wrong, because Mr Borstlap devotes a large part of his analysis to this by saying, even in his discussions with a large number of SME employers, "There are a lot of risks at the moment that make smaller employers, in particular, afraid to offer that fixed contract anymore." That's part of this analysis, too. There are several instruments and forms to resolve that, not just the right of dismissal. There are more instruments: pay-as-you-go, employer's costs, premium differentiation. But that is a very basic part of the analysis of the Borstlap Committee. We shouldn't walk around that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u210	Minister Koolmees lectures on the Borstlap report. I read it, too. However, my question was simple: do you recognise that certain work should be the norm again? You say "yes, for employees, but" and then there comes a very long story. Then let me put a follow-up question and let me take this 'yes' as a profit from this debate. My follow-up question is: can the Minister imagine that there is going to be a response to the Borstlap report which is going to be there, of course, with the part-time dismissal, a response that says that an employer can unilaterally say to an employee "you are going to work less hours"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u211	I think I just said two sentences ago: as far as I'm concerned, there are no taboos. So I do not think it would be wise to put aside elements of Mr Borstlap's proposals at this stage. I've heard there's a lot of reservations about it. I have also seen the hearing in your Chamber and Mr Borstlap's reply to the committee members themselves. I have questions about that, too. I just find it so little productive to say already: I don't do that part anyway; I'm just going to look at things that I like at first sight. No taboos means no taboos. So we also need to think about how we can ensure that this internal flexibility does indeed exist. Indeed, it is relevant for many companies to deal with shocks in the world economy, for example. That is a relevant part of Mr Borstlap's analysis, which you cannot just park.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u212	Finalizing, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u213	We can park that part just fine. I think it would be very sensible if the Minister were to do the same here, especially in the knowledge that there are now reports that say very clearly: the certain work must be the norm again. Then, of course, it doesn't help to make all the contracts that are there insecure. A part of it can be parked perfectly. I therefore warmly invite the Minister to do so. In fact, I would like to appeal to you to do so, because otherwise, I think, we are going to leave it hanging above the market of the whole of the Netherlands that an employer will immediately let you know one-sidedly: you can decide one-sidedly: you are going to work less and then, of course, earn less and perhaps even some other place. Surely that has nothing to do with certain work again being the norm?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u214	We are in danger of entering some sort of false opposition debate. I have absolutely no desire to do that, but that is what is threatening to happen, and I would think that would be a terrible shame. As Mr Asscher rightly said, the Borstlap Committee also says that part of its proposals are sandpaper, sandpaper in the sense that they sometimes feel painful, but that there is an analysis underneath it. It is that employers say: "Indeed, I would like someone in permanent employment. I want a permanent contract of employment and investment in training and in the sustainable relationship between employer and employee, but I also have to deal with uncertainty in the world economy and with the risk of a Brexit, for example. When I see these risks in my business and see that I have no way to deal with them, I have nothing but to fire people, but I don't want to." That's also part of the analysis. Let us not create a false contradiction by talking to everyone that contracts are becoming more uncertain, but let us consider how we can ensure that internal manoeuvrability. Let us focus on removing risks for employers who offer people a fixed contract. After the analysis, let us look for solutions that have broad political support, instead of blocking all kinds of things now and declaring taboo, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u215	The Minister pretends that employers have no way of firing a staff member they can no longer afford. What kind of bullshit is that? In recent years everything has been used by politicians in The Hague to make it easier to fire people. Employers are not pathetic entities! You say we should not raise taboos. You'd better do that sometime! It can't be that the newspapers are full of what Borstlap wants and that the newspapers are full of them that people can be dismissed more easily, that it is possible that in the meantime they will just work less hours, that they will be paid less, that their WW will be moaned, that the dismissal law will be moaned...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u216	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u217	...and that self-employed people will lose their benefits in a moment? Surely it cannot be that the newspapers are full of them and that the people at home should then hear that this minister says that it is fair and balanced and that he does not want to say that he is or is not going to do so for those people here in plenary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u218	At my request, the Borstlap Committee carried out an analysis of taxation, social security law and labour law, against the background that we are seeing more and more gaps in the labour market. There are contradictions between a group that is really good with a fixed contract and good arrangements, and on the other hand an increasingly large group that goes from flex contract to flex contract or is forced into a construction against its will. We all say that: we do not want that in the Netherlands. Then I ask ten scientists and sometimes professors, indeed, to give advice on how we are going to solve this with each other, an opinion that is separate from politics, indeed just given from the knowledge and insights of those people. Then there will be an opinion that is very balanced. And I think that is very balanced, because this issue has been looked at from different angles. The committee has come up with a direction that is widely shared and widely endorsed, including in many other reports. It has also come up with proposals that we need to discuss in greater depth. Then it just doesn't help to throw all these proposals overboard right now and pretend that that part of the report doesn't exist and that solves the problem. That doesn't solve the problem. Then we will indeed run into, as I think Mr Stoffer called it, the self-created contradiction in our labour market, and we must get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u219	This minister is creating problems. This report creates problems. If we do not now say that it is a taboo to sit on the WW, that it is a taboo to sit on the employees' security, if we do not put it now, it will just happen. Then it just happens. You know that as well as I do. In a few years we'll be back here and then we'll be talking about how it was possible for heaven's sake that we all thought that people were getting a permanent job while they all ended up being flex workers. That is because this minister is now saying: yes, that is a balanced report. There is a problem with the fluctuating flexibility of the labour market. Something must be done about that. Things are happening there, too. It's gonna be more expensive to be a flex worker. An employer will have to pay more in a minute. That's a good thing. But it can't be that way anyway. That's why I keep going on for a while. That's why an employee sits at home watching this debate and thinks, "God damn it, it might just happen soon..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u220	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u221	...that I'm losing my security?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u222	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u223	Why doesn't the Minister distance himself from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u224	The interruptions are going on too long. The minister hasn't spent two minutes trying to figure out his introduction. Dozens of questions have been asked. I'm giving him a chance to respond now. I will give Mrs Van Brenk the opportunity, but I would like the Minister to answer some of the questions first. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u225	I do not share Mr De Jong's analysis. Again, I think it is a balanced report which gives a realistic picture on both sides of the problems we face in the current labour market. Solution directions are outlined for this. My picture is that they are widely shared, also in practice. Of course, there are proposals in those barns as well. But it's really not like one-two-three is all certainty gone. That, too, could be called some kind of debate trick, or talk fear into it. So we shouldn't go along with that. We need to challenge people in the Dutch labour market to find their place in this sustainable employment relationship. We need to invest in their education and employability so that people can be active and productive in the labour market for a long time. We should not talk about all sorts of scary stories on a major debate evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u226	Short and rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u227	Wow, Minister. I think I just read that report. That report says "part-time discharge." This minister does not want to distance himself from that now. That's not a debate trick. A debate trick is to say that you don't see taboos, pretend it won't happen tomorrow and see in a year that it's just gonna find a majority. The Minister is actually in favour of giving employers more room to achieve internal flexibility. This is one of the ways to do that. Because the Minister does not distance himself from it now, he is actually sending the wrong signal to politics in The Hague that there is a possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u228	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u229	It doesn't help the employee. You are creating a new problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u230	Mr De Jong and I disagree. Nor do I find it very productive to present all kinds of taboos now. I think it is very wise to take Mr Borstlap's analysis seriously and to seriously explore with each other what are good ways to bring the permanent contract or the sustainable job closer, but also to reduce the risks that are indeed there for employers. I think that is simply a very justified analysis by Mr Borstlap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u231	Last week we had a technical briefing from Mr Borstlap and his committee. There was actually something really nice in there. That's gonna cost you. That is why I am looking at the Minister to see to what extent that can be achieved. His point was that there's too many people on the sidelines. We share that view. I just called them two million. He wants them to be given more personal guidance to work, but also that everyone gets a job and that they are paid minimum wage. That would be nice: everyone at work and at least minimum wage. I'd really like a reaction to that, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u232	The Secretary of State will discuss building block five of Mr Borstlap's report, because it is the Secretary of State's portfolio. But in general, you know that I am a great supporter of personal guidance. We have allocated 70 million in the coalition agreement, precisely to help those at risk of being sidelined for a long time to reintegrate into the labour market. That element is very appealing to me. We also have a few experiments going on, including in the WGA service, for example. I find that a very interesting route to explore further. The Secretary of State is about to respond to the basic idea of a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u233	Very good. The Minister continues his speech. If he has a certain structure, it's nice if he shares it at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u234	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u235	If you have a certain structure in your speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u236	Yes, I've arranged that along the five building blocks, but I'll come up with that after my introduction. I'll do four building blocks and the Secretary of State will do the fifth. You can expect that later; I will be there in ten pages' introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u237	The Minister is following his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u238	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the Borstlap Committee and the WRR have done a good job. Both reports speak clearly about the worrying and also growing gap in the labour market. Mr Bruins also mentioned this. Our work is crucial to our well-being and prosperity. But where work has to ensure social cohesion, it does not do so too often. I find that a worrying development. Since the 1980s and 1990s, differences in costs and protection have increased, for example between self-employed and employees, but also between employees. This led to a imbalance and sometimes unintended competition. This is never meant to happen, but this leads to the possibility of unfair competition from time to time. There is therefore a gap: on the one hand, highly educated people, with a good education, a wide network and fixed contracts, and on the other hand, more and more people with a limited network, for whom permanent work risks becoming a luxury. More and more people don't fit into our system like that anymore. Or better yet, our system no longer fits many workers. The WRR shows that we are on the threshold of a period of reorientation on the labour market in the Netherlands. This is not just about keeping work accessible to everyone, but also about keeping quality work accessible to everyone. Good work means that people know that work also provides sufficient financial security, gives and challenges freedom and autonomy, but also that work offers time and space. The WRR rightly says, as far as I am concerned, that this is what it often lacks. Of course, we've been working more over the last few decades. We've been doing more and more complex tasks in working hours, and we've been working late more often. That is also what the WRR report says about people, especially the vulnerable people in our society. If people feel that the work is growing above their heads, that they are losing control of their work and that the work is not providing them with certainty but is creating stress, then something is not right. There is an important task for all of us, I think. The Borstlap Committee is also giving the same order against the background of the developments I have just outlined: to carry out a great deal of maintenance on the system in which we work, along five building blocks. Building block one concerns the importance of internal manoeuvrability and external flexibility. Building block two calls for a clearer system of contract forms. Building block three calls for all workers to be able to develop and also learn. Building block four is about equal tax treatment and basic income security for all workers. Building block five calls for an impetus for active and inclusive labour market policies. As I said, I do building block one through four. The Secretary of State will be discussing building block five shortly. These building blocks do strengthen me in the idea that the path taken by the cabinet is also the right one. As a cabinet, for example, we have already started to reduce tax differences and with a first step for more Life Long Development, the STEP budget, but also to balance flexible and steady labour, for example in the premium differentiation in the WW from the Labour Market Act in balance. The Borstlap Committee calls on us to move forward in this direction in the short term. But the Committee also stresses the importance of discussing the future. That discussion was kicked off by the committee itself: a year and a half ago with a discussion paper and now with the final report. As far as I am concerned, this call has already been followed up with this debate and we will also have to go further in order to take this debate a step further. Before I answer your questions at the building blocks, I'd like to say I'm going to pick up the glove. Mr Borstlap also asks me to take the lead in this discussion. Mrs Palland also asked me this in the first term. I would like to engage with you, as well as with interested parties, with the polder and with the practice, on the basis of those five building blocks from the committee's report. I will soon send you a letter on how I see it in front of me that we are going to shape it. Then I'll move on to the first building block, if that's all right with you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u239	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u240	I will answer one question from Mrs Tielen in my introduction. There is already a lot going on, for example the aov zzp, the zzp legislation and the web module. Is the Minister prepared, as early as Mrs Tielen, to include all these pathways in the cabinet response? Yes. I'll take it with me right away, so there's also a little overview of what's going on. Then building block one: Promote internal manoeuvrability and brake external flexibility. That is the building block of Mr Borstlap. The Committee notes that manoeuvrability and security are unevenly distributed. The committee states that sustainable employment relationships should be promoted. A number of interruptions in the first term have already been about.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's exactly the balance. The last part is forgotten too often in this discussion, I think. You will notice this especially when you are in contact with SME employers, who say: I simply don't dare anymore. We need an answer to that. In concrete terms, the committee deals with the relief of the burden of employership, the increase of room for manoeuvre within permanent employment relationships, the promotion of temporary employment contracts, something we have already done, of course, because of the premium differentiation in the WAB, and the guarantee that temporary work is actually used temporarily; hence also the three tracks, with temporary work separately from regular work. I can follow that analysis very well. As a cabinet, we have already taken several steps in this direction. One example is the agreement we reached with employers on the payment of wages in the event of illness. In addition, we have done so with the WAB, which has already taken steps for several elements. Building block two: create a clearer system of contract forms. A lot of questions have been asked about that building block. So let me think about it a little bit more tonight. The Committee notes that the current unequal playing field for workers and for employees means that more and more people are emigrated to, for example, self-employment, thezzp structure, or more flexible employment contracts and more and more temporary contracts. In this context, the Committee recommends a manageable and contemporary demarcation between self-employed and employees, the prevention of improper use of, for example, triangular relations, which Mrs Palland also mentioned, the reduction of freedom of choice between contractual forms and the increase in the payment of workers' rights. We have also taken steps in this area in the SAB, but a number of specific questions have now been asked. For example, Mr Van Weyenberg specifically asked: what exactly are the figures on real false self-employment, and people's motives and preferences for choosing independence? He asked if I could take it with me in the cabinet response, so that we also put something underneath it which is more evidence-based. I would like to do that, with the same note that I often say: thezzp'er does not exist. There really are so many different types ofzzp'ers. For example, thezzp'ers who work for a client, about 500,000, are otherzzp'ers than the shopkeepers or the farmers, who do not work for a client but simply sell their own products. Those are all kinds of different types ofzzp'ers. They're too often thrown into one pile anyway. But if you look through your eye hairs, you'll see some real problems. On the one hand, they concern the bottom, where there is still low pay or risk transfer on the self-employed. You can also see the risk of disability, for example. 20% of thezzp'ers are insured against this. However, you also have to acknowledge that there are a lot of people who have a great job for each other and can make those choices themselves. In order to make that distinction clearer, we need to get to work, as I have heard in the debate today. Mr Borstlap and his committee make a number of recommendations in this area. As I said in the direction of Mrs Tielen, I take it with me in the cabinet response. Soon we will also have a separate AO about it. I would like to continue the debate on this subject with you. As you know, in November, I also sent a letter stating that I will talk about the web module in the coming months with, for example, the care field, the educational field and all kinds ofzzp clubs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u241	Thank you for that commitment. Just because the group is so different, that's important. Apart from questions such as what the tax motives are and what they are or are not the reason for, the committee reports show a little bit of the image that at the moment a lot of people quit on Friday as employees to do the same work as self-employed on Monday. I think that is already in breach of the law. I want to get a bit of a sense of how often such things occur. Because I get the impression that this is how it happens just to do the fun parts of a job and not the hard night shifts, for example. This while I also hear very often that it is partly the other way around. So I want to separate myth from fact. If it turns out that something worrying is very common, I also want to do something about it, but I don't want the image to be that it would apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u242	I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. However, there is another nuance to this, namely that the facts and circumstances of how the work is carried out are of course relevant for the assessment of what is called the employment relationship. That is also a discussion we have within the web module. But I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg: now one example is often taken as exemplary for all 1.4 million self-employed people. That is simply not the case; I think reality is really more nuanced than that. At the same time, I hear a great deal of agreement in the debate today, about better protection of the bottom, about improperzzp-ship in organisations and about the space for real entrepreneurs. That is also the direction we need to take, in order to find a solution to this issue. As a cabinet, we have taken several steps and are still taking them. That is also my answer to Mr Stoffer's question as to whether there should be an integral package. Without being complete: we are working along five lines on such an integral package. For example, it concerns the self-employed deduction, which is reduced in two steps by this cabinet, with compensation through the increase in the employment discount so that people do not lose out. We are also engaged in the discussion on occupational disability insurance and disability insurance for all workers. I'll get on this in a minute. Furthermore, we are working on the web module, from the question of which jobs a client can hire a zzp'er and for which jobs there is an employment. That's the third element. We are also discussing the self-employed declaration and the minimum rate. These are five elements in what should be an integral package that answers the question of what problems there are and how we are going to deal with them. At Mrs Tielen's request, I will take that point into account in the cabinet response. We will soon also have an AO on the wholezzp issue. It has been postponed for a while because we are still waiting for the opinion of the Labour Foundation on the request from the pension agreement on social security. Mrs Tielen also asked me to do additional research into different legal forms ofzzp'ers. This is a valid point. I have already said that the group ofzzp'ers is very diverse, including in terms of legal forms. It is important to keep an eye on this diversity. It is, of course, in principle for entrepreneurs to choose the legal form appropriate to the nature of the company and its risks. I honestly say that I do not have any signs that there are problems in the general sense. However, it is important to monitor the level playing field between legal forms. I'd like to take that with me. There is already a trajectory, the tax building block, still initiated by Menno Snel six months ago. This point is also part of that on the entrepreneurial side. In this context, Mr Bruins asked: can it not be that migrant workers are abused in flex constructions where they compete on low wages and working conditions? Just before Christmas, I sent a letter to the Chamber about abuses in the area of housing and flex constructions. I agree with Mr Bruins that equal work in the same place must be rewarded with equal pay and that this is an important starting point, as well as lasting employment relations between employers and workers. These particular groups of workers are often in vulnerable positions. As I said, I have already sent a letter about the abuses. This afternoon I agreed in the other AO that we are going to talk about the initiative of Christian Union and SP, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Segers, about labour migration. We're gonna take steps in that, too. For example, the Detachment Directive is really a step forward to counter unequal playing fields. But I would like to come back to that later in the context of that letter and Mrs Marijnissen's own-initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u243	I have one brief question about that. An interesting recommendation from the Borstlap Committee is also the introduction of a licensing obligation for temporary employment agencies. I ask this because, as we know, migrant workers often have to do with exploitation and temporary employment agencies do not always play a good role in this. Such a licensing system would, of course, be a very good solution in that light. What do you think of that part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr Borstlap has, in my mind, identified two elements. One element is the exploration of a licensing system. The second element is the deposit of a deposit to prevent flash failures and that kind of thing. In the letter I sent before Christmas, I already announced that I will work on that second element. I do not know the exact wording yet, and there is no licence at the moment, but we are going to talk about what kind of abuses we are facing. So one part of what Mr Borstlap advises, we are going to do as a cabinet. The other thing we are still exploring, also together with the broadcasting industry. From this there are also different sounds at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u245	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u246	Only one interruption! That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u247	I thought I'd hold back!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u248	Very good. Mr Stoffer asked: does the Minister also include the free movement of workers? Of course, I believe that work should be done for everyone under good working conditions against good pay, but freedom of movement is, of course, one of the four pillars of the European Union. The cabinet does not intend to create obstacles to this. However, I regularly discuss the abuses with my fellow ministers in Europe. Think of the improved Detachment Directive. I am also thinking of the frequent contact with my Polish colleague and also with the Polish ambassador on housing abuses. So, yeah, we definitely want to deal with problems. But one of the four pillars of the European Union is, of course, the free movement of people. That is such a basic part of the European Union that we are not going to restrict it. Then I come to building block three: enable all workers to develop and continue to learn. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Tielen...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u249	It was a little too fast anyway. Mrs Tielen wanted to ask another question about block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u250	At least I think it's part of building block two. I also asked the Minister how he wants to deal with the lanes, as I think Borstlap calls it in building block 2. There are people who have two jobs at the same time or have a business next to their job. There's a lot more movement... agility, I'd almost call it... in how people themselves want to deal with their jobs and careers. How does the Minister see that? I kind of missed that in the advisory report myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u251	I share Mrs Tielen's analysis. About 30, 40 years ago, the life you went to school was that you went to work and then you retired. You're seeing more and more diversity in phases now. People are employees for a while, people become entrepreneurs for a while, they go back to paid employment and take a sabbatical. Those phases in working life are becoming more diffuse. It is therefore important to reduce these differences between contract forms and the differences in tax treatment in order to allow mobility and not create barriers. So three lanes doesn't mean you choose lane one, and the rest of your life stays in lane one. It is precisely by removing these obstacles that you can, for example, move from lane one to lane two and back to lane one. This is a great asset for the labour market of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u252	I think so, too. By the way, to be faint for a moment: the image that the minister sketches is going to school, working and retiring is, of course, mainly a male image. For a lot of women it was going to school, work, family and hopefully some kind of retirement. But that aside. Fortunately, that has changed a lot. I hope, in his response, that the Minister will pay a little more attention to precisely those modalities, because I believe that this fits in with the manoeuvrable labour market which is of value not only to entrepreneurs and employers, but also to all those people. And again, we recognize each other in that, but it's nice to read something more solid about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u253	I'll admit I'm taking that with me in the cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u254	The third building block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u255	The third building block is: enable all workers to develop and also continue to learn. I fully agree with the Commission's analysis and also with the analysis of the WRR, which attaches importance to developing and learning in the labour market. I am also proud that, also in comparison to countries around us, we spend quite a lot of money on education in the Netherlands. We're really doing better than surrounding countries, but we're not there yet. We really have to take one more step, which is a joke, yes, especially aimed at the practical schools, which we can see in practice that they do not automatically use the regulations that exist. The three directions recommended by the Committee are sufficient development budget, support for workers and non-working people and an integrated approach. The cabinet recently sent a letter from the Minister of EZK, Mr Wiebes, on the growth strategy, which also includes lifelong development. We are also developing the STEP budget, the EUR 200 million that we are going to use to develop individual direction over life. Mrs Tielen said: it is a pity that it does not start until 2022. I agree with her, but due to careful execution it just takes time to implement it at the UWV. Otherwise, we're really gonna charge the UWV with an assignment they can't perform. I find that risky, also given the state of implementation with many government organisations at the moment. But a big step forward would be a very good idea. This means that money is needed, for which I do not see any budgetary space at the moment. Together with Mrs Van Engelshoven, the Minister of OCW, I am developing the roadmap to be able to talk to your Chamber before the summer about the progress of life, which, of course, we are also having a lot of discussions with the social partners about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u256	I like that. Thank you very much for this commitment. Of course, money is needed, but it doesn't necessarily have to come from our treasury, from the basement of the Treasury Department, I think. I think there is a lot of money in the market, in R&D funds, due to underutilisation and so on. So I'd like to challenge the minister to look wider than just the treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u257	Sure, that's what we're doing. Last week, moreover, I spoke to Mrs Hamer as an ambassador for the lifelong development of the DIY agenda, which many employers and employees at sector level are working on. Mr Bruins asked: what do you think of the Borstlap Committee's proposal on learning rights? The roadmap is coming for the summer. I do have a few reservations about the idea of learning rights. I think it is a nice idea, because it is about direction and about individual rights. But there is a risk of a few things, which is also a risk of shifting private funds to public funds. More than 2 billion, 3 billion euros per year are already spent in the Netherlands by employers and employees at collective bargaining level. There is a risk that these amounts will be withdrawn if you add a public learning account. The question is more: how can you stack different arrangements with each other? I think that the analysis underneath, i.e. individual direction of lifelong learning, is widely shared and also widely shared by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u258	It goes a little further than personal direction. Several reports, also recently, show that the cost of introducing learning rights, especially for MBOs, is borne out. That's gonna make a lot of money for our economy. Only, you're gonna notice that benefit in 20, 30 years. You don't notice it at OCW, but you notice it mostly in the ministry of this minister: less benefits...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u259	And the Ministry of Finance: more tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u260	And the Ministry of Finance: more corporate tax, more income tax. This is where a real reform is needed to bring lifelong learning to fruition. This is where we have to remove the divisions between ministries. I see that we also have a growth strategy that fits in well with this. That's what we talked about last night in this room. How can I tempt the Minister to really take a few fundamental steps towards a new system in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u261	You don't have to seduce me for that. Together with Mr Wiebes and Mrs Van Engelshoven we are really working on this. The implementation unfortunately takes time, because we are assuming a system that is not there yet. It's about individual learning accounts, I'll say, that still need to be developed. That is why we cannot take the first step until 2022. The fact that it is included in the growth letter of the Minister of EZK and the fact that Mrs Van Engelshoven and I are coming up with that roadmap before the summer already indicates that we as a cabinet consider it extremely important to take the next step in this. In fact, we have recently introduced the SLIM scheme of 50 million per year for a learning culture in SMEs. This is, among other things, a motion by Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins himself. So you can see that we're working along different routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u262	This really is the secretary of acronyms: SLIM, STEP, Cradle...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u263	... BOCS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u264	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But now that the Minister mentions 2022, he is still in the old system of STAP and the study vouchers. I really see the learning rights as a fundamental revision, a virtual learning account, which doesn't have money on it, but which is created at birth. That is so fundamental. It is not an extension of the STEP budget. It really is a drastic reversal of thinking, where we can already take steps without costing money and without building systems. It is a complete review of thinking about lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u265	I don't entirely agree with that, but let's not bore that out tonight. In the cabinet response to Borstlap, let us also explore how we look at these different systems. They're really different systems. I have mixed feelings, as economists, in such a generic drawing rights discussion. I do not think that you are encouraging certain groups to take the necessary steps. That is also what we are seeing in practice at the moment. Let's take a closer look at the design in the future. But I believe that the goal is widely shared and is also very important for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u266	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr Asscher asked what I think of a programmatic approach to the quality of work. I think that is a valid point. The WRR itself also says that companies and organisations themselves are committed to ensuring that there are good work and good conditions in the sectors and companies in the Dutch economy, and that the government and social partners have a facilitating and stimulating role to play in achieving this in those companies. I agree with the WRR. Good employership is incredibly important, also for future earning capacity. For example, as a ministry, we are active with the programme Fair, Healthy and Safe Work for the prevention of occupational diseases. That's the Secretary of State's wallet, by the way. For example, we have arranged EUR 800 million for sustainable employability in the pension agreement, together with Mr Asscher. That is also what we are talking about in good time, if you have a heavy occupation, for example. With these resources, together with social partners, with branches and with professionals, a programme is set up to encourage employers and workers to work from healthy and productive work to retirement. Those are two of the elements. I think the government can create conditions. By the way, you will be informed about the implementation of this programme in the spring. That is just as much a aside as part of the pension agreement. Building block four: ensure fiscal equal treatment and basic income security for all workers. Actually, most of the questions have been asked about that today. The Committee notes that differences in treatment between the self-employed and employees ensure that costs and risks associated with work and not the nature of the work determine the legal design of the work. The Committee recommends reducing the burden on labour, equal tax treatment of labour and disability insurance for all workers. The direction to which the Borstlap Committee points is also shared by the cabinet. As you know, for example, the pension agreement includes disability insurance for employees. There are, however, two differences in the analysis. The WRR and the Borstlap Committee recommend that a scheme be established for all workers, while in the pension agreement we made an agreement for the aov zzp. I have said before that it can also be a semantic discussion, because many workers already have disability insurance, only the self-employed. But the philosophy behind it is a different one. Let's just be honest about that, too. As you know, I asked for advice from the Labour Foundation to give an opinion here, in consultation withzzp-clubs, actually last month. The Labour Foundation will soon come up with that advice, which I can then discuss with the Chamber. It will then have to be clarified and developed into a cabinet proposal which will be sent to your Chamber before the summer. This too is one of the agreements we made in the pension agreement at the time. Mrs Palland said that there is a lot of support for disability insurance for self-employed people, but I also see a spot on the horizon in that WRR and Breastlap analysis. I can see that, too. I see a level playing field for all workers. This also has to do with Mrs Tielen's previous question on the three lanes: can you easily move between the three lanes? But I think it is wise to wait for the advice of the Labour Foundation first, that we did not ask for nothing, to take the various opinions together and to reflect on how we are going to shape this in the cabinet proposal sent to your Chamber before the summer. So head on and think about a good direction. I would like to say that it is going to take a number of years anyway, because this also applies to the fact that, if you want to regulate the implementation, a few major steps need to be taken to map the self-employed at all. We don't have any of that right now. We only have the concept of tax income, but no other registrations. So it's gonna take some time to map that anyway. In the context of disability insurance, Mr Asscher asked: is it an idea to have clients contribute to the premium? He was actually talking more broadly about affordability. I very much agree with Mr Asscher on this affordability. One of the problems of the current system is, of course, that less than 20% is insured, because of the very high monthly premium. The amount of the premium is relevant anyway. Then the question is, simply put, how can you compensate. This is very complicated in technology, because, as Mr Van Weyenberg said, you have private and business clients. That also has to do with that diversity inzzp'ers. Retailers or farmers are also zzp'ers. Well, how are you gonna make that technical? The affordability issue, I see. How you translate that technically, I find it very, very complicated. And as an economist, I always say: if you put a floor in a market and lay down a certain compulsory premium, it will have an impact on the rates, because it is based on a level playing field, because for all self-employed people in a particular sector the same cost structure applies. You know that we have been working on the minimum rate. Mr Van Weyenberg said the same thing. That could mitigate some of the problems at the bottom. So I would like to look, but I find it technically very complicated, I say to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u268	I fully understand the Minister. I also think it's technically complicated. I also see the economic argument that it could ultimately be resolved through tariffs. But because a lot of self-employed people are not in a position to negotiate their rates, I see here a very great responsibility for us to settle it this way. As far as I am concerned, the Minister has every opportunity to look at what is technically possible and justified, but we must also look at the position of the individual self-employed who is faced with a premium for affordability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u269	I very much agree with Mr Asscher on the latter. An objective of the agreements in the pension agreement has also been that it would be an affordable scheme that is truly accessible to the self-employed. I'm gonna wrestle it a little bit. This also coincides with the broader discussion on the wider package ofzzp that Mr Stoffer was talking about. So I'm gonna wrestle it, if that's okay with you. Period. In fact, Mr Stoffer asked the same question as Mrs Palland about that spot on the horizon for all workers andzzp'ers. Once again, I myself put this question to the Labour Foundation in the context of the pension agreement. We attach great importance to this; we have not asked that question for nothing. I'm really curious what's gonna come out of that. I know that Mr Stoffer has asked a number of questions about this, for example about opt-outs or equal arrangements for farmers. I think we should start weighing up all the proposals, but it is clear that I have made an agreement with the parties and that I generally keep to my commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u270	I just want to get it straight anyway. When you make agreements, you have to stick to them in principle, unless you agree that it's a little different. But my specific question was this. The Borstlap report proposes an alternative. Is that alternative being seriously weighed or is the Minister struggling for a while with the question of how to park it and is he just going to continue with the agreement he has? So I'm talking about whether it's also being added as a serious alternative and whether all the advantages and disadvantages are being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u271	Of course I'm seriously wrong and I'm looking at all the pros and cons. Let me give you an example of how complicated this issue really is. What if you went to a scheme for all the workers? Then, as the Borstlap Committee recommends, you should also think about what you will do with the extra scheme for employees. How, for example, do you deal with the cut, so to speak, between the basic insurance for all workers and the supplementary insurance for both employees and perhaps also entrepreneurs who can ensure this privately? Then how do you deal with the reintegration? How do you deal with limiting absenteeism? Those seem trivial questions, but they are not in the system that we have, especially in view of the law on the improvement of gatekeeper, which aims to reduce absenteeism and influx into disability schemes. So it's a little simpler said than just done, while the analysis is funny enough for both of them to work in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u272	I understand that very well. I understand from the Minister that he weighs that, too. I'm not asking for nothing, because if you look at this, you'll see that soon the situation will come when people become even more self-serving, then they'll return to the service and so on. If you took this option from the Borstlap Committee, you would make it easier in my opinion, because that would at least make no distinction anymore. Anyway, my specific question was: are you seriously putting it wrong? I have the impression that the Minister is going to make a serious mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u273	Yes. I'm seriously wrong, one of the two caveats or two disclaimers anyway. I have, of course, asked for advice, not only on behalf of the cabinet, but also on behalf of six parties who have signed the pension agreement. That is also an important argument. The second point is that of the deadlines for implementation. Again, this didn't just happen. So the question is also what steps you are going to take in this context. But, of course, I'm going to put it seriously side by side, because it's a relevant question. There are a number of specific questions about the WRR report. If you look at the recommendations 1 to 4 of the WRR, you will see that they are largely in line with the recommendations and analyses of the Borstlap Committee. But an extra dimension, an interesting dimension, is added by the WRR, namely the quality of work and the grip on life. That is an important element. I believe that this is also a relatively new element in the discussion on the labour market. Think also of the worrying number of burn-outs and the pressure many people work under, especially in combination with their private lives. These are, of course, important points for a healthy labour market of the Netherlands in the future. In this context, Mr Asscher asked: could you ask the ESC to develop scenarios to give workers more security and control over their work, income and life? I'd be happy to say so. I would like to put that question to the ESC. In any case, it was already the idea to take these steps with polder politics and practice. But I would like to put this specific question to the ESC, if you ask me. In this context, Mr Bruins asked about the vision of leave arrangements. As you know, as a cabinet, we have taken a first step, for example with regard to the cradle, maternity leave for partners. We see that, in particular, leave for the partner in the first phase after the birth of the child is extremely important for the division of labour and the division of work and care between partners in a family. The involvement in the care and upbringing of the child is also important. In my opinion, the WRR report does not reflect the recent substantial increase in parental leave for partners. But we have really taken a major step with the introduction of the Cradle. In addition, you know that we are also working on paid parental leave, also in connection with the work-life balance debate in Europe. Soon I hope to inform the Chamber of the steps we are going to take on this point, as I promised Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA. Mr Stoffer asked: will you reconsider the fact that you are chasing everyone into the labour market? I thought that was an interesting question, just to put it that way. The starting point of the cabinet is that everyone must have the freedom to decide for themselves how many hours of work best fits in one's own situation, in one's own family, in their own choices that are made. But the Borstlap Committee's report also shows that the freedom of choice for some is greater than for others. One of these elements is, for example, part-time ibo, which also looks at the obstacles for people to choose voluntarily how many hours they work. So there's no compulsion from the cabinet behind "do this!" However, there is an analysis behind the fact that a number of institutions are now creating obstacles that limit freedom of choice. As a result of the ibo, I would like to talk to you about the policy options. That ibo will be coming soon, too. I come to the last few, short, questions. Mr Bruins asked about the generation test. That's a little too fast for me. We are still working on a cabinet response to the SER Youth Platform, which also includes it. It's still quite complicated to develop such a generational test. Qualitatively you can say a lot of things sketching, but if you are going to work it out seriously, you can see that there are still some hooks and eyes coming up. So first we are going to give the cabinet response to the advice of the SER Youth Platform. Then I'd like to talk to you about the generational test discussion. Mrs Tielen explicitly asked: is the Minister prepared to send the quantitative assumptions made in the drafting to the Chamber? Among other things, the Van Weyenberg/Palland motion was adopted, asking for the quantitative impact of the policy variants for the summer to be sent to the Chamber. I think it's a good idea to elaborate those assumptions. That's what I'm going to give to my officials. Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Bruins asked: are you willing to ask the CBS to involve grip on income, grip on life and grip on work with the Monitor Brede Prosperity? Yeah, I'm willing to do that. I myself was one of the members of the temporary committee Breed Wealth concept a year or three ago. That was me and Mr Nijboer, Mr Heerma and Mr Grashoff. So I'm a big fan of broad prosperity. I'm just gonna talk to CBS; I can't order it. It really is a product of the CBS itself. So I'd like to talk to them about whether they want to record it. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u274	Thank you very much. We now have the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, who will speak about the fifth building block, after she will make a small introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u275	Sure, Mr. Chairman, where I won't double. I promise you. But I would also like to say a few words for introduction. Following the WRR, the Borstlap Commission also put a number of urgent issues on the agenda, including the important issue of the activating and inclusive labour market. That's the so-called building block five. That is very positive to me, but it is really necessary. Even after years of economic prosperity, too many people are still on the sidelines. Something must be done about that. I therefore wholeheartedly endorse the proposal made by the Borstlap Committee for greater guidance and reciprocity. It also fits in with a number of issues that are already on the scaffolding, including, in any case, the pending legislative proposals on the broad offensive and the appropriate offer and investigation of the posting facilities. However, there are still major challenges to provide people with more perspective at the basis of our labour market. The evaluation of the Participation Act also shows very clearly that this is necessary. Mr President, I would first like to outline a broader framework for the routes that are going in this area. 'Cause a lot's been going on. After that, I would like to address a few questions. In the course of this month, I'm offering this Chamber the bill Breed offensive. This proposal contains measures to help more people with disabilities to work. The broad offensive fits in with the urgent task of reaching out to people with disabilities, because about half of them are on the side. A society must not accept that. We have to turn that tide around. We must move towards a labour market in which everyone participates. With all the parties involved who can help in this process, and I can tell you that many of them have now been prepared to address four obstacles to an inclusive labour market. Firstly, it will make it easier for employers and job seekers to help people with disabilities to work, including by improving the use of key tools such as labour costs subsidies and guidance in employment. Secondly, work becomes more attractive for people with disabilities. I also want working to be more rewarding for those who work part-time with wage subsidies. Employers and jobseekers can find each other easier, including by strengthening employers' services. And important, also in the context of this debate: with the proposals we want to contribute to sustainable work for people with disabilities. And then I look towards Mrs Van Brenk, with whom I always have the debates on the importance of sustainable work for this particular group, which is vulnerable in the labour market. Then, Mr. Chairman, the appropriate offer. The Borstlap Committee calls for more personal guidance for people with a distance from the labour market. Or, as we say more and more often, the labour market that is remote from people. That ambition fits the thought of the bill fitting offer. My aim is to present that proposal to your Chamber this spring. I would like to go to a situation where everyone receiving assistance is also offered appropriate support at the same time, based on everyone's individual situation. And yes, that is primarily about a perspective on work. But if that is not possible, then there are still ways of supporting personal development and social participation. In order to achieve this, I aim to ensure that municipalities make agreements with all welfare recipients, precisely in order not to leave people alone but to make them more able to participate in society. Mr President, I would like to say a few words about appropriate work. The Committee also calls for the creation of more suitable jobs for people who are unable to meet the high demands of current working life. The committee mentions, among other things, basic jobs, posting facilities, sheltered work and the use of wage costs subsidies. Those thinking lines are in line with a review I have carried out on the use of posting facilities in the implementation of the Participation Act, also because of a motion adopted by your Chamber. I expect to be able to inform the House of this in March. In any case, I can already endorse the committee's ambition. I shall look into the specific proposals put forward by the committee. Of course, I would like to discuss this with municipalities, other interested parties and last but not least the clients themselves. The adage is: not about us, but with us. Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer a number of specific questions. Mr Asscher asked whether these basic jobs should be genuine jobs and whether I would like to support municipalities wishing to experiment. Mrs Palland also asked about the basic jobs. In any case, let me say that the cabinet and certainly I share the intention that people with a great distance from the labour market should also be able to participate, as far as I am concerned, preferably in the regular labour market. If that doesn't work yet, then in other ways. We have a number of instruments for that. We have the job deal. Hopefully we'll have the appropriate offer later. We have the posting facilities. However, even now, municipalities have a lot of scope to promote the participation of people in the assistance. Municipalities take many initiatives in this respect. I welcome that. Municipalities learn from each other, too. In the coming spring we will get the results of the municipalities that have been given the space to experiment with this within the framework of the Participation Act. These results can teach us interesting lessons about how to deal with them. I see that there are many definitions of a basic job, but I find it a very interesting thought, which is good to explore further. I shall certainly come back to that in the cabinet response. In the direction of Mr Bruins, but also in the direction of Mrs Van Brenk, I would like to make it clear that I will certainly pay attention in the cabinet response to people with disabilities. I just mentioned them in my introduction. I like to work with your Chamber on many fronts to make me hard for people with disabilities, for whom it is not a choice to stand aside. I am also pleased to see how the Borstlap Committee's recommendations can contribute to the employment rate of people in this group. As far as I am concerned, it is also a plea for an inclusive labour market, a plea for strengthening the support and guidance of people who sometimes have a great distance from the labour market. I have just referred to the legislative proposals on a broad offensive and appropriate offer. They will certainly have a place in it. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions that were asked in my field. I thank your room for that. The rest will be expressed in the cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u276	There is a question from Mrs Van Brenk, although Mr Bruins is on his feet a little faster. I would nevertheless like to give Mrs Van Brenk priority. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u277	Thank you, Chairman, for the clemency. The pace is indeed not high. The Borstlap committee says everyone gets a job. The PvdA gave an example of someone working in a playground. He should always get the minimum wage. The Borstlap Committee was very clear about this: everyone is accompanied, everyone is at work, but all the minimum wage. That also gave me hope for all those people who are still in a benefit situation with disabilities. When they all get the minimum wage, life will be a lot easier for them. Could the Secretary of State comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u278	In the current situation, various regulations that we have are based on the standard of 70% of the wml and I am making several legislative proposals more workable or more rewarding. For example, look at the Participation Act. If people are going to work with labour costs subsidies, there are many, especially those with disabilities, then this is indeed the way to go. At the same time, as far as I am concerned, there are many forms of work that are very useful, but which are behind structures that are not experienced that way by those who do the work. You then talk about daily spending, sheltered work, work with guidance at a regular employer or work according to the job agreement. That's a lot of constructs that are on the technical side of the work people do. As far as I'm concerned, that's all real work. Work that is perceived as meaningful by people is real work. I would like to take the time to consider these proposals from the Borstlap Committee, because they are also part of an overall concept. The direction in which the committee is moving is one in which I feel very comfortable, because, as far as I am concerned, it is also the direction for the inclusive labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u279	That sounds very hopeful and very positive. Perhaps the Secretary of State could also take the trouble to respond to what Mr Borstlap said about personal guidance to help people get to work as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u280	As far as I'm concerned, personal guidance is crucial. That is an important part of the broad offensive I hope to send it to the Chamber soon too, but it is certainly also important for the appropriate offer. We have seen from the evaluation of the Participation Act that, unfortunately, many people are still deprived of contact with the municipality. It is precisely that personal contact and that personal guidance that is helping people a step in their personal development that is at the heart of that. I hope that these proposals will at least take a step in this direction. I will certainly also look closely at the reports from the committee, including the WRR, to see if we can perhaps take another step further along that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u281	In the section on the P-wetters, the Secretary of State rightly referred to the big job ahead of her. I have deep respect for all the actions that are now being deployed. Can I be specifically promised that this cabinet will, in its response to Borstlap's opinion, specifically address the question of what the various recommendations made by Borstlap mean for the labour market position of this most vulnerable group? Can that group receive special attention in the cabinet response?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u282	Sure. I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u283	Fine. The Secretary of State was at the end of her speech and so we are also at the end of the first term on the part of the government. We'll go straight on with the second term. I call Mr Asscher on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u284	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the comprehensive answer, which promises a great deal for the future. We're facing them. Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people need more security and more control over their work, income and life;]] [[noting that the WRR and the Borstlap Committee made valuable recommendations;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Economic and Social Council (SER) to draw up several scenarios which, among other things, meet the above-mentioned needs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Borstlap Committee wishes to give employers the opportunity to adjust one-sided salaries, jobs, workplaces or working hours;]] [[considers that this measure makes millions of workers unnecessarily insecure;]] [[points out that it is undesirable for an employer to be able to make such adjustments unilaterally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many people are keen to contribute, but are not getting to work;]] [[believes that if you work you should earn at least the minimum wage;]] [[points out that basic jobs are real jobs, where a decent salary should be paid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-980]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-981]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-982]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u285	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that all workers deserve protection against incapacity for work;]] [[noting that the Pension Agreement agreed that disability insurance for self-employed persons should be affordable and accessible to all and that the Borstlap Committee recommended that insurance be provided for all workers;]] [[Whereas the negotiating position ofzzp'ers may now result in these costs being fully passed on tozzp'ers and not reflected in a higher rate;]] [[declares that the contribution for this disability insurance must be payable;]] [[and calls on the Government to examine ways to ensure that costs do not translate into a correspondingly lower net income position, including, as possible options, a fair contribution from the sponsor or an adequate minimum rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-983]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u286	Sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u287	Thank you. I call Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u288	Thank you, Mr President. I've got two motions and I'll start with the first one right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the conclusion that the share of precarious flexwork in the Dutch labour market has gone too far is now widely shared;]] [[Whereas the introduction of more uncertainty will therefore not contribute to reducing the share of uncertain flexwork;]] [[points out that the share of insecure flex work should be reduced, the secure contract returned to the norm and that the measures proposed by the government following the reports of the Scientific Council for Government Policy (WRR) and the Committee on Employment should contribute to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-984]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u289	My next motion is actually about the fact that we think it would be a good idea for the government itself to set an example. The WRR also calls for this in its report and says that the government as a major employer should set a good example in its personnel policy and in publicly funded work. We are happy to endorse this by means of the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Scientific Board for Government Policy (WRR) states that good work is also a responsibility of the local and national authorities;]] [[Whereas the public administration spends a lot of public money and in doing so can make demands on the quality of work of companies and institutions participating in public spending and projects and doing work for the public authorities;]] [[points out that the public authorities themselves should set a good example and should also impose requirements on companies and institutions with which business is done in order to reduce the share of employees with insecure flex contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-985]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u290	Yeah, but I've been through my time, so I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u291	Yes, but we have the rule that a motion must be pronounced in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u292	That last sentence is on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u293	Sure. I call Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u294	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate and thank them for answering the questions and for the wonderful introduction of sixteen sides. Thank you very much. If one thing becomes clear, it is that we are still having a very strong debate and that the challenges in the labour market are enormous. It has also become clear that there are great differences, and that is good. It is good that we are not already trying to reach agreement on all the details, but first we are trying to clarify what these differences are, in ideological terms and in the way we look at that labour market. Then I hope very much that we are not going to try to quartets to see if we can hurt each other a little or to see how we can achieve something from our programme, but that we are going to look at what is needed in that labour market and see how we can ensure that more people are assured that they are insured for bad luck and bad luck, that there is no competition on working conditions, that people can do so if they want and that no one is pushed into a compulsoryzzp-ship against their will. I don't have any motions of my own. However, I have signed a number with it. This was a major debate with some details here and there. I'm really looking forward to the sequel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with Mr Klaver's last words, and I hope that we all manage to leave our own marksmen's pits once in a while and to monitor the balance of the committee's report. Mrs Palland will be tabling a motion on behalf of me on the handling of flex contracts. Mr Bruins will do so with a motion on learning rights. Mrs Tielen will be tabling a motion on entrepreneurship. I've got three. Then you will see that the balance is also in the total of the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission calls for regulation of work to establish a new balance between open-ended contracts, workers with flexible contracts andzzp'ers;]] [[Whereas, according to the Commission's Regulation, it is necessary to adapt any existing form of contract in order to achieve a new balance;]] [[Whereas the option to change one-sided terms of employment in contracts for an indefinite period of time creates a great deal of uncertainty;]] [[Whereas more manoeuvrability of the contract is necessary for an indefinite period of time in order to make it more attractive for small entrepreneurs to recruit people;]] [[calls on the Government to explore other variants which increase the manoeuvrability of the contract for an indefinite period with the aim of reducing dependence on external flexibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Palland, Mr Tielen and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-986]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u297	I'm moving on fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission recommends regulation of work to relieve the burden on employership in order to achieve a more sustainable employment relationship and a new balance on the labour market;]] [[Whereas the current obligations of employers on pay and reintegration in the event of illness impose disproportionately heavy burdens on employers vis-à-vis clients, but also in an international perspective;]] [[Whereas shortening the pay-as-you-go period to one year may make it more attractive for small entrepreneurs to employ people for an indefinite period of time;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up the Commission's proposal on the regulation of work to reduce the payment of wages in the event of sickness to one year and to identify the effects of this according to the most recent findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-987]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u298	Thank you. I'll try to talk even faster, and it's almost impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u299	You read the motion quietly so that people can understand her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Commission's regulation of work hardly weighs the preference of individual workers to enter into work as an independent entrepreneur;]] [[Whereas, in line with the opinion of the Commission, a more level playing field can provide scope for the consideration of this particular preference;]] [[points out that, in addition to the nature and factual circumstances of the work, the preference of people should still be taken into account in the possibility of working as an employed or self-employed person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-988]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u301	The cherry picker of the evening was surely Mr Van Weyenberg. If a colleague here made a point, he said: no, no, no, we can't have that; this is a cherry we have to leave hanging. Now I see all kinds of motions coming along, for example one on the payment of wages in the event of illness. Isn't it exactly the same to get one thing out of it at the moment and say that this really needs to be worked out? Isn't that a little cherry picking?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u302	Above all, I warned against excluding all kinds of things and declaring all kinds of things taboo. I would like to highlight a few things that I find interesting, both in dealing with flex contracts and in making the job more accessible and in the new balance of self-employment. I put accents. I also saw that happen on motions with your name on them. I warned colleagues who said that I liked the one half that was already in my programme and I am against what was not in the programme. I warned you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u303	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Tielen, on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. I say the whole name, because it's always gonna take you a while to get to the chair. I'll just fill in the time. Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u304	Mr President, I always do that myself, so it feels good. Nice to consider with a little more distance what is so hugely important for everyone in the Netherlands: work. Thank you to the other Members of Parliament for their questions, interruptions, statements. Here and there it was a bit spicy, but I think we have been able to show that the VVD doesn't close any paths at all and doesn't talk about this subject from the dogmas, but just wants to move forward. Thank you to the Minister for the commitments to my questions. I've got two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that self-employed entrepreneurs are self-employed without staff in a wide range of sectors ranging from agriculture and horticulture to small businesses, IT and construction, etc.;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is a policy priority of the government;]] [[noting that the Netherlands owes its prosperity to all types of entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas both proposals in preparation and advice from WRR and Borstlap have an impact on the entrepreneurial space ofzzp's;]] [[calls on the government to weigh heavily the importance of entrepreneurship in the planned and new proposals and to focus on promoting real entrepreneurship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Borstlap Committee explicitly advises on the possibility of individual learning rights for all Dutch citizens;]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement has agreed the intention for an individual learning account;]] [[Whereas the STEP scheme providing for a personal development budget is a first step in this plan;]] [[noting that this STEP scheme will become effective by 2022;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with an additional proposal for a personal learning and development budget for this period of government, thus preparing a larger STEP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-989]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-990]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u305	Thank you. I look forward to all the follow-up talks on this subject with all my sounding board groups, but, of course, also in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u306	Thank you, too. Mr De Jong has the floor on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u307	Mr President, thank you very much. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having noted that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Borstlap Committee, in its report, what kind of country do we want to work in? proposes further reducing the rights and security of employees and self-employed persons;]] [[noting that the Minister does not renounce proposals which further restrict the rights and security of employees and self-employed persons and characterizes the report as beautiful and balanced;]] [[considers that you do not solve the problems in the labour market by applying a policy of taking away to the detriment of employees and self-employed persons;]] [[calls on the Government to resolve the problems where they arise and therefore, in the interests of our welfare state, to close the Dutch borders for all asylum seekers and for all immigrants from Islamic countries;]] [[calls on the government not to relax the right of dismissal, not to restrict WW rights and not to take away tax advantages forzzp'ers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Jong and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-991]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u309	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u310	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas almost 2 million people are unable to participate in the labour market for a variety of reasons;]] [[Whereas this puts pressure on the earning capacity of the Netherlands and on our prosperity;]] [[calls on the government to focus on the permanent development of the workforce and to take forward the proposals of the Commission on Lifelong Work Regulation as soon as possible and not to wait for a further government period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Commission's Regulation calls for a shift to proactive, activating guidance from work to work, or from benefits to work;]] [[Whereas the Committee considers that there is a need to invest significantly more in tailor-made and individual guidance;]] [[Whereas the budget for active labour market policies has been halved in recent years and municipalities have lost two thirds of their budget for activation and guidance;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to provide comprehensive, effective, individual guidance and support to workers and beneficiaries of benefits, as envisaged by the Committee, for this period of office;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-992]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-993]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u311	Mr. Chairman. In this debate there is a glimmer of light, at least as far as I am concerned, 50PLUS explains the reaction of the Secretary of State. We think that the chances of everyone getting at least the minimum wage for work, including, and perhaps, people with disabilities, are a big plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u312	Thank you. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u313	Mr. Chairman. The first motion I had prepared, I do not submit, because what was in it, I have been promised. That commitment is that the government will ask the CBS to include the concepts of "grip on" in the Monitor Brede Prosperity. I shall not table the second motion either, because what was asked for in it has also been promised. In the cabinet response, the cabinet specifically addresses a vulnerable group in the labour market, in particular the people in the Participation Act. That leaves me with two motions. The first one is about the law of learning. The Borstlap Committee really shows that its learning rights are more than just waiting until 2022, when the STAP budget comes. So that motion sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a number of groups, such as those with MBO training and those with a flexible contract of employment, are currently under-investing in training;]] [[Whereas this underinvestment leads to a less agile workforce and a higher risk of knowledge ageing;]] [[Whereas the Commission is proposing to regulate work in order to increase investment in training by allocating a personal development budget;]] [[calls on the Government to develop this form of individual learning rights and to identify to what extent it can help to finally achieve a breakthrough in the field of lifelong development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Scientific Council for Government Policy and the Committee on Employment calls for and encourages a substantial reform of the labour market;]] [[Whereas it is important to identify in such reforms the impact on each generation, from young to old, in order to ensure fair and generation-proof policy choices;]] [[Considering that the Government is currently developing a generational test, thanks to the widely supported Segers/Jetten motion;]] [[calls on the government to apply this generational test to forthcoming labour market reforms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-994]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-995]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u314	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Commission's Regulation sets out to combat the current proliferation of contract forms;]] [[Whereas competition on labour costs through triangular structures, such as payrolling, contracting, posting or broadcasting, does not fit in with good employership and does not contribute to greater reciprocity between employer and employee;]] [[Whereas this is above average for workers with a practical level of training, with a lasting employment relationship important for investment in training;]] [[calls on the Government to combat competition on labour costs through triangular structures and to explore concrete policy options in the follow-up to the Commission's final report on the regulation of work and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of a basic job may be significant for people who are sidelined;]] [[Whereas there are different interpretations of the basic job, as can be seen from the scientific reports "The Better Work." The new social mission," "What kind of country do we want to work in" and "The job as a basis";]] [[points out that a basic job is a job for a regular employer;]] [[calls on the government to consider the form in which the introduction of a basic job could ensure that people return to the labour market on a sustainable basis and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-996]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland, Mr Peters and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-997]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u315	I would also like to thank the rulers for their response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u316	Finally, Mr Stoffer has the floor on behalf of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u317	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the two directors for their reply. In particular, the Minister, I believe, has answered my questions. There are two points I would like to take up. One. I have, of course, said something brutal: let us not rush everyone into the labour market, and so on. I really like the Minister saying, "Let's talk about it." Because, of course, in the end, I'm talking about space for family care, space for your family to make their own choices. So I like to have that conversation. And my experience with these rulers is that once you start talking, there will always be a step in the right direction, including from me. So I'm excited. Then there's another motion, about thezzp'ers. The promise was already about there, but there was something from a disclaimer on it, so I'll file the motion anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a proposal for (a form of) compulsory invalidity insurance is being drawn up for selfemployed persons only;]] [[Whereas the Commission does not opt for compulsory insurance for self-employed persons, but leaves room for alternatives, such as an AOV for all workers;]] [[Invites the government, in the cabinet's response to the regulation of work report, to address the disadvantages of a mandatory AOV for employees only as outlined by the committee;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the committee's proposal as an alternative to the discussion on compulsory disability insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-998]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u318	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the future of work. We need the second term from the government. We are also given an opinion on the 19 motions tabled. First of all, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to the grip on life, the grip on work and the grip on money, I would also recommend that you have a grip on motions, but this is completely aside. The motions on pieces No. 982, 993 and 997 are dealt with by the Secretary of State. I'll do the rest of the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. I've already agreed that that judgment is Chamber. The motion in part No. I would like to dissuade 981, from the thought of no taboos. Moreover, I think that Mrs Tielen's motion, which was tabled later, is a better one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u320	Mr Bruins has an interruption after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u321	From the point of view of "no taboos," I would add. Sorry, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u322	I would just like to point out to the Minister that promised motions can also be taken over immediately. That will save us some time in voting time. Taking over is also an option in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u323	I'm okay with taking over, too. But sometimes the Chamber wants to vote on it, right? Because then you'd like a motion to be passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u324	If a group objects to taking over, it can indicate that. If there is no objection, the motion is simply taken over. Saves a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u325	The Minister wants to take over the motion, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u326	Sure, I'd like to take her too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u327	Does Members object to adopting this motion because they want to put it to the vote? I see that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u328	On this point, I found Mr Bruins' intervention so intelligent: no taboos. So that motion would be dissuaded in the vote, but was just taken over. I have no objection to that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u329	No, Mr. Asscher, it's the motion in part No. 980 taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u330	But Mr Bruins came forward at that motion, didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u331	Mr Bruins was a little slow today. He actually meant the motion in part No. 980.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u332	No objection if you take it over!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u333	The motion in part No. 981 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 982 does the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 983 asks the government to investigate how to secure... That is also a little bit of the debate we had in the first term. I understand very well what this motion is asking for. I really think that affordability is an issue. The feasibility is also a real issue. So I'm really looking at how you could do this on the client side. I can't quite see that. At the same time, I think it puts a bottom in the market if you impose a duty. That strengthens the negotiating power because there is a level playing field. There is, however, a strong need to ensure that the net position does not deteriorate. I think it's okay to keep an eye on the income position. Against that background, with those disclaimers, I'd be happy to give the motion judgment Chamber. I'd like to explore the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u334	The motion in part No. 983 has Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u335	The motion in part No. 984 by Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher is a 'pronunciation' motion, so I do not need anything with that in itself. You pronounce it "Room." You're not asking me to be a member of the government. In itself, therefore, I do not have an opinion on this. But the scent flag that comes out of this text makes it a little taboo, if you know what I mean. But it's a "spoken" motion, so I'm not about that. The same applies to the next motion, the motion in part No. 985, but I do have some advice on that. It states that the government itself should set an example as an employer. I understand this motion and I understand the direction. As a government, I think we are ahead of a lot of things. For example, we don't do payrolling anymore. There aren't a lot of temporary contracts. So, yeah. However, I would advise you to seek advice from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this point, because of course there are still procurement rules and other things I cannot see at the moment. Although it is a "pronouncing" motion, on which I should not formally have any judgment, I would strongly recommend that you be advised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and therefore hold the motion until the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been able to reach an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u336	Then we'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u337	At the request of Mrs Marijnissen, I propose her motion (29544, No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u338	Then I will make sure that this is brought to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The motion in part No. 986 by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mrs Palland, Mrs Tielen and Mr Bruins on other variants was the motion I liked better, so I give it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 987 calls on the government to identify the effects of reducing pay-as-you-go payments to one year. I'll pass judgment on that, Room. I say to Mr Klaver: that is not taboo, but that is more information. Bj de motion in part No. 988 I would like to make a few comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u339	That's a "spoken" move, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u340	Yes, this is a "spoken" motion, but I still think it is important to say a few things about it. Mr. Van Weyenberg, you're listening? I understand the intention of this motion. At the same time, there are really a few points of interest here. Think of European law, for example. I think it's very complicated to weigh motives and preferences into something like a web module. For the sake of clarity, I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's position, which says: if there is a level playing field, it is also less relevant to make a harder distinction. I understand that direction. At the same time, it remains relevant for European law and for the definition of an employment relationship as to the facts and circumstances in the assessment of the employment relationship. That's up to the Supreme Court. Those are the holistic approaches. I can't put that aside. There has been an attempt to take the preference with which the Borstlap Committee says something else. It says something about the embedding in the organization, but actually about the facts and circumstances. What I do understand by the spirit of this motion is the point of the real entrepreneurs. I want to include that in the conversations about the web module I announced in November, to see with the field andzzp'ers how you could give that a place. But as it's formulated now, despite being a "pronouncing" motion, you can't live up to this. I want to make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u341	The motion doesn't say just to look at it. Of course you also look at the nature of the work. Now all things are weighed, and the intention of the parties is actually taken out completely in the opinion of the Borstlap Committee. The only thing this motion says is, be careful taking that all the way out, just when you get a more level playing field. It doesn't say here that you can't look at other things as well, but that this could be a relevant factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u342	May I give two examples? I think one of the examples is Mr Van Weyenberg's intention. If people just make a free choice to be an entrepreneur in a level playing field, people should have that choice. I understand that; that's one side. Suppose there is a contract party that writes in his contract "the intention of the parties is that this is an independent one," but that there is a scent flag on that it is false self-employment or against the will that people are forced into a particular contract. You have to take that into account. I know that Mr Van Weyenberg does not mean that, but that is how I want to peel it off. That's why the conversation about that web module is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u343	If it reassures you: in a mock construction it doesn't meet my point either. This isn't a carte blanche. It doesn't say that. It also says: look at work. Don't set aside the whole intention, as I think that's happening too much. I think the minister and I are a little less far apart than it seems right now. But also take into account what those parties want. By the way, if one has to sign the other because otherwise he doesn't get a job, I don't think it's free will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u344	The latter is, of course, the reality that in some situations people have no bargaining power. I find this legally very complicated. I want to get this straight in my conversation about the web module before I get here... But yeah, it's a "spoken" move, so I'm not going over it. But I do think it's important that I create clear expectations...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u345	You did. We continue with the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u346	... where I understand very well what the intention behind this motion is, namely: real entrepreneurship must be given space. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u347	Yes, but you said that three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u348	Good. Well, at least that's clear. The motion in part No. 989 by Mrs Tielen and Mr Van Weyenberg: judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 990 by Mrs Tielen calls for an additional proposal for a personal learning and development budget and thus for a larger STEP. As I said, before the summer I come together with Mrs Van Engelshoven with the road map, which contains an extra STEP. It is clear that I have no money for that, so it is not that a budgetary claim comes from underneath. Against that background, judge Room. The motion in part No. Mr De Jong and Mr Wilders, I would advise against 991. That will not surprise Mr De Jong. The motion in part No. 992 by Mrs Van Brenk I must advise against. The context of the motion of just was that we come before the summer with the elaboration of the roadmap on lifelong development. That's the cabinet response to that. We don't have an additional budget available right now, so I can't make that move in that sense. We are going to move forward on the lifelong budget. But as it is formulated here, I cannot give the motion judgment Chamber, but I must advise her against it. The motion in part No. 993 does the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 994 by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg ask the government to develop a form of individual learning right, identifying to what extent it can finally help to achieve a breakthrough in the field of lifelong development. This is the same point: I'll take this with me in the road map. I have already made a reasonable commitment to this in the debate. Provided it's part of the road map, I'll give the motion judgment chamber. The motion in part No. 995 by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg on the generational test, I would ask you to hold until the reaction to the Jetten/Segers motion arrives. As I hinted a little bit, we're struggling with how to shape that generational test. If you'd like to wait for that, I can then assess this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u349	I saw that coming, because the promise I received in the debate was that the Minister would once again want to talk to me. So I'm gonna keep the motion on for now and I'm gonna keep her above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u350	At the request of Mr Bruins, I propose his motion (29544, No. 995). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u351	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. The motion in part No. 996 by Mrs Palland and Mr Van Weyenberg, with the request to counter triangular constructions and to explore concrete policy options in the follow-up to the final report of the Committee on the Regulation of Work, is judged by the Chamber. The motion in part No. 997 is for the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 998 Mr Stoffer and Mrs Tielen asked the government to consider the committee's proposal as an alternative to the discussion on compulsory disability insurance. Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. You see a different design in both the WRR and in Borstlap than we asked the Foundation of Labour. I also said that there was a lot of discussion behind that about the organization of the WIA and that sort of thing. And I made an appointment. But I think it is right that you should ask them to be included in the consideration. So I'm gonna give the motion judgment room. But I do have an appointment, not only with six parties in this Chamber, but also with social partners. Against that background, I'm giving the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u352	Thanks to the Minister. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 982, 993 and 997.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u353	Thank you to the Chamber, President, for the opportunity to discuss this important subject and my important building block. I look forward to the coming moments to exchange views with the Chamber on its various interpretations, and in the short term hopefully also on the broad offensive, the appropriate offer and other debates, such as the elaboration of the motion on the posting facilities. I have three motions, two of which are "pronounced" motions. I'd like, if you'll allow me, to give you a little bit of context. It concerns the motion in part No. Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mrs Marijnissen, and the motion for a resolution (Doc. 997 by Mrs Palland, Mr Peters and Mr Bruins. Both motions are actually about the definition of the basic job. I understand that very well, because it is an important part of the report. At the same time, I do not want to take an advance on the cabinet response in this respect. So I'm curious to know what the Court's gonna say about this. In any case, I have tried to argue in my contribution to the debate that there may be several structures behind valuable work, ranging from day-to-day spending to sheltered work, work with support, job appointment, regular work etc., and that we can certainly find each other in discussions about real work, fair pay and decent work, but that ultimately it is also about its impact. I hope that you will take with you my statement that, in the cabinet response to the Borstlap Committee and the WRR report, I would like to take an impact on your weighting on the vote on these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u354	You must, however, give an opinion on the motion in part No. 997.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u355	Is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u356	Yes, because there is also a request to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u357	Oh, yeah. Not so much because I agree or disagree, but also because I do not want to take an advance on the discussion on the impact of the cabinet response, I advise against the motion. Also the motion in part No. 993 by Mrs Van Brenn anticipates the cabinet response. I think that we can meet a long way, especially when I read the recital that much more will be devoted to guidance. At the same time, it says in the request "as envisaged by the committee." However, I would like to take up a number of points when it comes to drawing up the report. So I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u358	The motion in part No. 993 has also been dissuaded. I thank both rulers. Oh, one more question from Mrs Van Brenk. I would like to thank you for your support for the rulers and for the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u359	I wonder why the Secretary of State is not asking to apprehend her, because that is another possibility. I am prepared to do so when she says: then it has another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u360	Sure. If Mrs Van Brenk and I can meet each other with that, I'd love to. Then I'll make the request to apprehend her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u361	Then I'd like to meet that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u362	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (29544, No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u363	Thanks to the rulers and their support. Thank you to the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-7.u364	We are going to vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 11 February.
