ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the VSO Annual Review 2019 and Complaint Statue 2019 of the Health and Youth Inspectorate, Office 33149, no. 62. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The inspection sketches a sad picture of the state of play in youth aid. Too many children have to wait too long for appropriate help, much is not in order and it is unclear what has happened to motions that we have already adopted in the Chamber. For example, on 2 July, a motion from me was adopted asking to identify how often coercive measures are used and to investigate the effects of coercive measures on young people. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State what happened to that motion. My second point concerns education in youth care institutions. I put that up as early as 2018. I said at the time that not all children who are in a youth aid institution are receiving good education. At least I'm getting signals about that. We asked for an inventory of that. Last year I raised it again. After a long wait we were informed that there would be a policy inventory after the summer. Well, it's after the summer and I haven't seen him yet. I wanted to ask this Secretary of State what's going on with that. Mr President, I have another motion. It's about forced isolation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that one of the objectives of the Action Plan is "The best-suited care for vulnerable young people" in order to bring the number of forced isolations to zero;]] [[Considering that the number of forced isolations should have decreased by 80% in 2021, but this ambition does not appear to be met;]] [[having noted that there were many critical reactions on this issue to the proposal for a Law on the Legal Status of Youth Institutions, which was consulted this summer;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the prevention of restrictions of freedom is the starting point of this legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with youth care institutions, aid workers and young people on what is necessary to achieve these ambitions in the Action Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Wörsdörfer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33149-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have only one question and my colleague has co-signed a motion. Our question is about the capacity at the IGJ, following the discussion we saw this week about corona. To what extent is the capacity of the IGJ currently sufficient to carry out all checks, including on private companies carrying out corona tests? This demand remained above the market this week. We'd like to know what's going on. We also know that an annual plan will be published this autumn on the IGJ for the coming year, 2021. Could you anticipate that, so that it can be corrected now, so that we do not have to ask all kinds of questions about it again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u4	Don't you have a motion? You have no motion. It's possible. Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I think one motion has been tabled. We'll wait for the Secretary of State to examine that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u5	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld has put two questions and tabled a motion. Her first question was what is going on with her motion on how often coercive measures are applied. That motion has been carried out. Every six months, ggz providers provide an analysis of the mandatory care they provided during that period under the mandatory ggz Act. In addition, closed youth aid institutions register all forced isolations on a voluntary basis. These effects have been studied in several studies. We know that, in my opinion, Mrs Westerveld knows that forced measures can have a negative effect on children. Hence her concern, which I share. In addition to the studies that have already been carried out, I would also like to carry out additional research into the frequency of compulsive feeding in the last two years, and the reason for that. We have a Youth Legislative Consultation on 23 November. In a letter to the Chamber, which also highlights a number of other issues, I will deal more specifically with this point, i.e. topicality. Mrs Westerveld has asked for more work to be done on young people's education. That's something that unfortunately doesn't go as fast as we'd like. I know that the Ministry of Education is talking to the healthcare providers and that this is a little more difficult than we would like. I also know that the Minister of Education expects to be able to report more on this at the beginning of 2021 and that there will be real progress. That's later than we hoped and expected, but this is the harsh reality. The whole appropriate education story is a complex matter. There is a letter on the way or at the Chamber about the latest state of affairs, but that is all very topical. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's motion to item No. 63 which she has submitted together with her colleague Wörsdörfer. In my view, everyone agrees that forced action should be based on "no, unless," so as little as possible. So as for the first part of the operative part, about the starting point, I say yes, please in the bill "no, unless." The motion also states that there should be an action plan to see what is needed to achieve the ambitions. I'm gonna take a break from that for a while, because I'm wondering if that's gonna get us to take advantage of each other. Right now, the project is "I'm not leaving you alone." That's what the organizations are working on and we're going to evaluate it. That has everything to do with this. On top of that, making a plan of action would be a little overkill, I think. I would also like to say that I would like to inform the Chamber more about the steps to be taken on this particular point, namely how we can realise that the number of coercive measures is kept to a minimum. I also take this into account in the letter I am sending to the Chamber for legislative consultation. I would therefore urge the authors to hold the motion until the legislative consultation. If there is still reason to say that more gas should be given on this particular point, the motion may still be put to the vote. I'm asking the proposers to be patient for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u7	And if you don't, the verdict is "Room"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yes, I'm not going to discourage the motion, but I think it's a little premature, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u10	Maybe just a brief explanation. I'm not asking for a new action plan. In fact, I am quite critical of all the action plans that have appeared under the predecessor of this Secretary of State. Besides, I'm not the only one in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u11	I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u12	The point is that there have been a number of action plans that contain very high ambitions but do not show how these ambitions are being fulfilled. For example, on reducing the number of isolations, such an action plan is very beautiful, but we see that the reality is not that that ambition is being met. The legislative proposal to improve the legal status of young people is not out of the question, but there was also a great deal of criticism during the consultation I read about limiting or reducing the number of isolations to zero, whereas those were the words of the predecessor of this Secretary of State. That is my central point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u13	As far as I am concerned, we are allies as Mrs Westerveld says: let us keep them absolutely to a minimum. At the same time, I think that there was also the criticism during the consultation round, which is thinking that you can go to zero very quickly or that you can do without it, aside from how things work in practice. For example, we want to avoid confinements in bare cells, but we cannot throw all types of coercive measures overboard at once. I understand that Mrs Westerveld wants to see ambition in how and through what steps we are going to reduce it. Please give me the chance to formulate this in a letter to the Chamber in the run-up to the legislative consultation and, if necessary, come back to it if you think that the ambitions are still too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u14	I'm fine with that; then I'll hold the motion. By the way, if the Secretary of State says here that it is difficult to achieve this, I do not think it should have been written down so clearly in those action plans. It says very clearly that it is the ambition to go to zero. That is an agreement between the predecessor of this Secretary of State and the field. Then we must also ensure that the agreements that have been made are at least implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u15	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u16	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (33149, No. 63). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Laan still owes me an answer to her question concerning the capacity of the IGJ. That is of course an important point of attention, because there is a lot on the IGJ sign, especially in corona time. The IGJ has had capacity expansion this year, including in relation to new entrants. A total of 35 people are on their way, of which the first ten have already been accepted. At the same time, Corona continues to demand a huge amount of supervisory capacity. This has led to the IGJ also reprioritising, so that more attention can be paid to this. So there is indeed being looked at things that are very risky in the atmosphere of corona. There must be sufficient effort on this. In this context, the IGJ is reprioritising and anticipates the commitment needed in the context of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you for that answer. That was obvious, because it makes sense that you have to act on the situation that is taking place right now. I understand that this is not the Secretary of State's portfolio either, but it is now time to do so. Checking private test customers for corona is a specific point that we have asked for attention to a number of times. The new annual plan is coming up. My question to this Secretary of State is whether he would at least like to tell the person who is going to talk about this that the annual plan for next year should really be different from what was on the shelf in the middle of this year. This can't be happening. Reprioritisation is possible, but at the expense of what? That's within this year's plan. We are all officially aware of how life works. Next year, the annual plan looks different. There will need to be specific attention to all the points that are now being raised in the debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u20	A very clear question and a very clear answer: I am going to bring that to the attention of the honourable Member who is talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-6.u22	There was one motion and it was stopped. So we won't have to vote on anything next week, at least on this subject. I see the following spokesmen are present.
