ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u1	We will continue with the report of the written consultation Decision amending the WHW 2008 Implementing Decision. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u2	Mr President, thank you. The method-Futselaar did not suit me well in the previous VAO. So I have just made a quick move on the typewriter, as the Minister would like it to be. I'll read the motion. There's everything we need in there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the corona crisis has delayed the assessment of quality agreements and that the study advance funds are therefore paid one additional year through the regular State contribution;]] [[having noted that, after more than two years, 19 higher education institutions have not yet adopted a plan for better education;]] [[Whereas where institutions do not have an approved plan in 2021, they fail to fulfil their commitment to invest in the quality of education;]] [[considers that students have kept their side of the promise when introducing the study advance system, but that institutions without approved plans have not yet done so;]] [[Calls on the Government to enter into talks with any educational institution that has failed to submit an approved quality plan within the next few months;]] [[In addition, in the event that educational institutions do not have an approved quality plan after 31 December 2021, the Government requests that a third of the study advance funds be recovered for the year 2021 and distributed among the other educational institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-862]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u3	Thank you for the motion, of course, but I wonder what exactly it is needed for. If the institutions do not get approved agreements next year, they will lose their quality funds by 2022, 2023 and 2024. Why does it still take the Wiersma Fine? What warning do you think these institutions do not understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u4	I do not understand the reluctance to encourage institutions to improve their quality. That's why we came up with those quality agreements with each other. If educational institutions have still not succeeded in doing so, I think that we should be firm about that, but that we should also, of course, be able to understand the situation with corona. So I'm not against putting it off for a year. I would just like to say as a stick behind the door: firstly, let us help these institutions by consulting them. Secondly, in the ultimate case that they just keep making a pot of it... I mean, I'm critical of that and I hope you are with me, because that would please you. If they really make a mess of it and so they can't do it, then it is 2022 and then it is 2023, but as far as we are concerned it is also a third part of the band you were there before I read that part about 2021. That is a stick behind the door for these institutions and a signal from a number of parties that you have to take those quality agreements seriously. If you say 'well, we'll see if they do or don't, you'll get that money anyway', then I think you're actually gonna let those students down a little bit and above all not helping co-determination, because it needs it as a stick behind the door. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u5	I distance myself from Mr Wiersma's insinuations. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of euros, sometimes even a million euros, even if you are reclaiming a third of them, which you might want to get back. It would be a pleasure for you to send them a flower in this corona time, in which teachers have put everything they need to put education online, but you send them a reminder that they really don't need. This means that the colleges have a reason to put that money on the shelf instead of putting it into education. That is why the ISO indicates on behalf of the students: don't do this. So my question is as follows. If you know that there is enough punishment for not getting it done next year, why do you want to get money back, so they might not be able to put it into education now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u6	If you are convinced that next year the institutions will simply have approved plans, you should not be against them. I think it is important that we, as a Chamber, state that we are taking quality agreements seriously and that we are contrasting expectations. If after more than two years you don't have your business in order, you get another extension and you still don't have your business in order, then we've made all those students at those institutions that we've taken the basic grant since 2015, happy with nothing. Because we have promised them that the quality will improve and they must stand for it, and so must we. If you cover that up a little bit, "Oh, yes, they're doing their best and send you a flower," I'd say smell for thanks. We must help and encourage these institutions and thus help to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u7	Were you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u8	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u9	Then I thank you and give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u10	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. We have agreed with each other on the use of the study advance funds, also known as the loan system. In the meantime, almost all universities and most colleges of higher education have received approval for these quality agreements, but we also know that there are a lot of demands and that in many cases the NVAO has looked at them and found that these agreements are not quite enough. Those institutions were given a rematch and were allowed to do so. I've been to several of those colleges. That's what it's all about. There, people from the co-determination council also said that they thought it had gone well, but that it has not yet fully complied with the process as the NVAO asked them to do. To say now that we want to give these institutions the quality resources only under mortgage, at this Corona time, when you can't expect them to get that rematch right now, I find a wrong signal to all those teachers, but of course also to the drivers. They've been working really hard lately to get education online. Now that we in the Netherlands are giving an enormous number of institutions and people a delay, even from their tax returns, I think that is a wrong signal. I therefore call on Mr Wiersma to reconsider this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u11	Thank you. Mr Wiersma wants to respond to that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u12	That call is nice, but we just talked about it. So we're not gonna agree on that. Mr Paternotte may say what he wants, but I am not saying that the whole amount must be recovered. That's one. I say that there must be an incentive in that amount, and I mention a third part. Is it true that Mr Paternotte says that by definition he does not think any financial consequences are fair? If that means that we make it a little too easy for an institution in that way and maybe even demotivate it to come up with such a plan, how does he explain it to those students? I think that these institutions would be helped if we treated them this way. That's not always funny, but the quality has to be higher, because that's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u13	The student organizations are against the proposals, and I understand that. These institutions need to get their agreements around next year. That's what I think, and that's what you think. If they don't, they won't get the quality money in 2022, 2023 and 2024. If that's not enough motivation, I don't get it. I really do not understand what a fine of one third of this year's amount adds to that. I know they'll take it into account if you say now that you might recover money next year. They will not be able to invest that money in education now, when we want to. That's why I think it's unwise. I do not think that your motion will solve anything and that it is a kind of reminder that the institutions really do not need. After all, there is a huge punishment waiting for them if they don't get it around next year. But I think that the motion does cause a problem and sends a bad signal to the teachers who have now worked very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u14	We have a difference of opinion. At some point you hope to see a result when you study at an institution and in 2015 have heard that you will lose the basic grant in exchange for better education. And now you hear from your attitude: "We haven't done it yet, even though we had more than two years to do it. We get another year now, but we haven't done it yet." Then it's just gonna be ready for once, isn't it? Then we have to start helping these participations in these institutions. The proposal that I am making now is certainly a tool for them to say to these institutions 'boys, get your shit together'? You are actually depriving them of the opportunity to have that strong conversation with those institutions, and I think that is a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u15	This is simply not true. We are talking about a lot of institutions that now have to change the agreements for the first time and go through a number of things again. We can't do that right now because of the coronta time. We still have to do that next year, and you and I both do. That fine doesn't make any sense. You say "the students are entitled to it," but so do I. I believe that these students are entitled to these quality funds this year. They must be invested in education, because they have lost their basic grant for it. We, VVD, D66, GroenLinks and PvdA, have reached an agreement on this for a reason. So that money has to go to education this year. I absolutely do not see the added value of giving that money under mortgage by saying that you might recover it next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u16	I can, in part, go along with what Mr Paternotte is saying, but I would like to ask him whether he does not agree with us that it is rather harsh for the students who have been promised that quality and accessibility would be improved in exchange for the loan system. Firstly, the question is whether the pre-investments have come to the right place. We know part of that didn't happen. In addition, a few years later, a number of institutions are unable to comply with quality agreements. What could we do, then, to ensure that the promises we have made to these students are kept? I'll look for an opportunity like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u17	I've been a spokesperson on this file since last summer. I've been to about half the colleges. I have talked about this issue almost everywhere, because it is at many colleges of applied sciences. It plays much less with the universities, but these colleges all indicate that they had to get used to the exact demands that were made. In some cases, it has indeed been too easy to ignore certain issues. That's why they're glad they're getting another chance. Only it did come at this time, in this corona time. I can see why they couldn't have done that quite right. Of course, everyone has to stick to the agreements in the end. But if that doesn't work next year, the quality cost of '22, '23 and '24 will pass them by. In any case, this amounts to hundreds of thousands of euros per institution and, in most cases, to millions of euros. The fact that they don't get that money is enough incentive to do it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u18	I understand that, but of course they've been delayed because of the corona crisis. That's not the point for anyone either. The point is that the agreement was made by your and my party to ensure accessibility and quality. I just indicated that the pre-investment didn't work out well everywhere, and now we have this again. What can we do, then, to keep our promise as political parties that these students will receive better education and that money will be spent on access to education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u19	I think we have made some really good demands, regardless of what else you think of the loan system. The principle that participation should be called upon to do so is also why these quality agreements are being looked at very critically. An example I heard was that participation was actually very content with the agreements, but that there were still minor changes in the process quite late. This was about things like books in the library, which became e-books, and on that basis it has been said: on that element the process has not been fully completed and on that basis we cannot now approve the quality agreements. I understand that, because rules are rules, but to say now 'we might be going to get some of that money back next year, because that is not yet settled', I really find at this time the wrong signal to the teachers and also to the students who are working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u20	You were at the end of your speech, I understand? That's the case. Thank you. I shall then be the last to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. No, that won't be necessary, I see. Then we shall suspend for a moment so that the Minister can examine the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u21	I give the floor to the Minister. One motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u22	Thank you, Mr President. When I saw the motion and just heard the debate, I had to remember the first discussion I had as Minister with all the educational institutions and student associations about the quality agreements to be made. They made one call to me. They said: "Minister, whatever we agree, make sure there is no systematic like we had with the performance agreements, which made it possible to recover. Don't do that because it kills investments in quality. Because then exactly the opposite of what you wish for happens, because if the risk remains that you will have to pay back the money you want to invest, then you will not invest. And then you do exactly the students short." That was a unisono call. That is why we have designed the quality agreements as we have designed them, and that is why we no longer want to work with a system of recovery. We're just gonna work with a system where you're sure of your money, but if you really screw it up, you're not gonna get the run-up. Everyone thought that was a fair deal. In the process we have now designed, we have said "in this corona time we also give some delay for that." That happens a little for reasons such as Mr Paternotte's description. If you look where the agreements have not yet been approved, it is especially at colleges of higher education, and actually because it has been underestimated how firm the NVAO was on top of the quality of those agreements. So there is still room for improvement, but I have a firm conviction, even when I speak to institutions, that they are doing everything they can to get it right. I think it is fair that at this time, in which you should invest in quality education, they should be given time to do so. If you don't want to invest in the next year, you're going to have to take this motion. Then you are sure that institutions will leave that money on the shelf. With the sword of Damocles above your head that you might have to repay it, you're not gonna spend that money. I don't do that at home either. If I know that there might be another claim on something, I'll keep that money in my account. That is what we think is right. So if you want students to get what they're entitled to and that teachers get what they're entitled to, you make sure that money is invested. And yes, please, as soon as possible, and yes, according to good quality agreements. But don't burden institutions with threats right now that they have to pay it back. It is potentially millions of euros when we say that they are not getting there. Then, of course, everyone's doing their stinking best to make good deals. Let there be no doubt about that. But I'm totally against returning to old coal performance agreements right now, at this time, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u23	I thank the Minister. We're at the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-44.u24	The vote on the motion will take place on Thursday.
