ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Shipping Traffic Act and some other laws relating to the further flexibilisation of pilot duty, pilot duty new style, Room 35248.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State and give Mr Laçin the floor on behalf of the SP Group as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a country with one of the largest ports in the world and where millions of people live in the immediate vicinity of ports, security in and around those ports must always be at the forefront. Pilots play a very important role in this. Ships the size of apartment buildings must be maneuvered by narrow waterways while passing other ships. I went with the pilot once myself. On the open sea climb up such a huge container ship and then on the bridge see the port of Rotterdam glide by you is impressive, especially for me as born and raised Rotterdammer. That is quite so when you consider that I was with you during the day and that we had clear weather that day and the sea was very quiet. However, the pilots do this work 24 hours a day and in weather and wind. It is therefore not surprising that we are making strong demands on the pilots. They are crucial to safety. At the same time, it is also logical that captains with a great deal of experience should be exempted from the piloting obligation. This system has been in place for years, but is being amended with the present law. The main reason, according to the Minister, is that the system is unnecessarily complex and should be simpler. Apart from the fact that, as far as we are concerned, the current law does not always succeed, I want to know exactly what the problem is with the current situation. We believe that safety is now well guaranteed. That is the most important thing for us. What problems has the current, apparently complicated, legislation to date brought about, which really need to be addressed now? Can the Minister explain this, perhaps with some examples? Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to talk about the handling of pseudo-houses. It is good to read that the Minister has abandoned the provision of pilotage exceptions per route and is going to allocate them again by port area. Because ports such as Amsterdam or Rotterdam have many routes, masters with knowledge of the area could obtain many certificates and thus be hired as pilots. We must ensure that we get commercial pilotage services in our busy port areas. The Minister also states that she considers it unlikely to do so, but I can well imagine that it is very possible for large shipowners to employ captains who continuously sign and rewrite ships on their certificates, with which these shipowners actually start their own pilotage service. What importance is attached to such a pseudo shed? Safety or, for example, a tighter timetable for the shipowner, who is therefore also an employer and therefore also thinks about the money? Why, therefore, do we not set a maximum limit on the number of ship changes that may take place on a certificate? I think that's pretty easy to arrange. I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. In order to obtain pilotage exemption for large ships, a captain must demonstrate that he or she is competent enough. In addition, a master must enter the port a certain number of times a year in order to maintain knowledge of the local waterways. For the largest ships, it is 18 times a year. We believe that this is considerable, especially since large container ships, for example, do not operate short shuttle services but are often on the way for weeks between ports. In order to prevent captains from losing their certificates unnecessarily, the frequency requirement may be waived. In itself, the SP can go along with this, but there is no limit to the number of times that exemption can be applied for. The Minister writes that the competent authority, the harbormaster in this case, will check whether exemption may be granted and the harbormaster will also take with him or have previously been granted an exemption. But what backup does a harbor master have with this explanation? Because if the harbor master does not grant an exemption, the ship owner must either take on board an additional captain or hire a pilot, and that costs a lot of money. The SP therefore finds it not unthinkable that a ship owner can put a lot of pressure on a harbor master. How pure can a harbor master make a trade-off? What is the pressure to grant exemptions when it may not be sensible for safety reasons? Can the Minister explain why she chooses not to lay down any further provisions to make it easier for a harbor master? I'd like a response. The exemption from the pilotage obligation for working ships is left to local policy makers in the present proposal. This means that ships from, for example, Rijkswaterstaat have to meet other requirements continuously. This is contrary to the aim of this legislative amendment to simplify and uniform the pilotage obligation. Why doesn't the Minister choose to lay down clear rules for working ships? I would also like to mention the training and certification of captains of small ships. This pilotage exemption does not require a practical or theoretical test for the smallest category of PEC A. The Minister's reasoning is that this is not necessary because they are relatively small ships, which does not have such an impact, but these ships do sail on the same waterways as the large tankers and container ships. A collision can therefore have very serious consequences. For the SP it is logical that we make other demands on the captains of these small ships, but only knowledge of the local rules and the language within the port speak we find insufficient. Can the Minister comment and explain whether a certain form of checking knowledge is also possible for this category? Mr President, I will conclude. For the SP, security is paramount. We are therefore in favour of this legislative amendment, but I also hope that the Minister will respond favourably to my questions and requests so that we can make this legislative amendment and the system even better and more robust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. The pilotage obligation has been in place for a long time and the last change to the pilotage obligation dates back to 2002. There was a desire on the part of shipowners, the state harbor masters, pilots but also the government to update this pilot duty. The aim of the amendment now before us is to achieve greater uniformity and certain exemptions and exemptions. Mr. Chairman. I want to tell you something from my own experience when it comes to pilotage and what I have experienced so far as a citizen of the Netherlands. I would like to give some general information that we consider important and finally to conclude with a few questions that I have left on the legislative proposal. I'm looking at my own experience first. In 1996 I was given a seven-month internship at the Curaçao Ports Authority, the port authority there. I was with a friend of the HEAO on that island, fantastic. When we were just there, we stood there at a drink on Friday afternoon and saw a submarine passing under the Juliana Bridge, a very narrow passage on the island. We said, "Cool, an American submarine, how do you get that thing in here?" Of course there were also pilots on that drink, because they are just next to that port office. Someone from the Curaçao Towing Company said, "Such a submarine is nothing at all, man; there are much bigger ships coming in here." And we're like, "Wow, what then?" "Big tankers and stuff. You know what, come next week, and I'll be on duty." So to speak, so to speak. On a Friday evening we sailed on a small pilot boat outside port and we stepped there on a French tanker from Guadeloupe who came and brought some fuel. We stepped on the Nedlloyd Neerlandia, a very large container ship, which later even perished, and on a South Korean carrier, a very high ship. That was the last one with a Greek captain, who was extremely nervous, because it's a narrow opening when you see it from the outside. Then you saw the Van der Valk hotel really coming at you. That captain was so nervous that we took another lap on the high seas, with the engines on, to get close to the harbor. Then you realize what importance there is, especially with such a high ship, where 5,000 cars stand, with a lot of wind, to enter that harbor and eventually make a good mooring. I did. That Greek captain was also very happy that it had succeeded. It was the first time he went to the harbor there. As a thank you, he gave us all, including the trainees who were with us, a bottle of ouzo. We drank it at night after the shift with the pilot, with the warehouse. That was my first experience. My recent experience, in the run-up to this pilotage obligation, was in Rotterdam, because I also wanted to know what that was like. We were invited by the Pilot Being, also offshore, at sea, with a pilot boat, a little more professional, a little bigger all. There are countless ships waiting for them to enter via the Eurogeul. If you're on the bridge of such a ship, we've done two container ships, just like Mr. Laçin, with such a rope ladder up again, you'll see the Netherlands in small from above. You're so high, you see thousands of containers in front of you and behind you, and then you go into that harbor. Those containers are some kind of lego cubes on the ship, very large cranes of perhaps 100 meters high are a lot smaller, and people are almost lost. You then realize what enormous damage it would cause if that harbor mouth was scrambled, if it goes wrong for once, it can always go wrong because it blows hard or because someone doesn't have their papers in order. Because our economy is largely dependent on that port, and 90% of all the goods in the world that we transport with each other come to us via that water. Then I'll come to the law amendment myself. The sea ports must therefore be safe, and it must be properly arranged. That's my message. The pilots are partly responsible for this. The captain is ultimately responsible, but that captain needs to know what he's doing and he's being supported. I have noticed that the bill was drawn up in good harmony between the shipowners, the pilots themselves, other parties and the government. But still, on Monday there were some questions that I'm going to ask. What about it, because if it's in good harmony, why isn't it arranged in that way? It's got hooks and eyes attached to it. I do not want to take sides in this, because it is a delicate package, but I do want to know more about it. One of the things that the Royal Society of Dutch Shippers indicates concerns the categories of ships. One category, the dc category, goes up to 160 meters. Couldn't you stretch that 10 meters? Then you could drop a whole category of feeder ships, which are now 169 meters long, in there as well. So why was the 160 meters chosen and not for 170 meters, for example? Another point that they point out is that there is actually insufficient data to justify where exactly that safety limit lies. Can that data be made available? Does that make sense or not? Another point is about the Scheldemonding, an area that we do together with the Belgians. You'll see some harmony there. What exactly is in the legislation when it comes to the Scheldt? What role does the Scheldt Committee have in this? The final point is the language of instruction. When I entered a ship like this recently, there was a captain from Poland on a Ukrainian ship. You're gonna go up all those steps and you're gonna come up. You'll see the captain. That was a relatively young guy who had worked in the Navy and had already had experience with a ship with containers at the age of 30. The language is English, but this man's English wasn't very good and his Dutch certainly wasn't. Yet the pilots will be able to communicate well with such a person, because the value they have on board is of course enormous. We've seen that with the MSC Zoe: 300 containers, but there's 19,000 on it. So what about the language? Is it wise to abandon the requirement of English in the future? Then the Pilots themselves. They were very satisfied with the law, but also sent a letter with two points. I do not know whether the Minister received this letter, but it was mainly the smaller ships, for which the consequences would be less. It is incomprehensible when people think, I quote, 'that smaller ships are part of the whole traffic policy in a busy Dutch seaport'. They would be inferior or less at risk. What exactly is that about? Even a small ship, even up to 75 meters, can of course cause enormous damage if that happens. Finally, another point. We make demands on the number of sailing movements per year you have to make within an area. But if you only have to get half of that, why not change the demand immediately? We impose a standard, but we don't use it, if I understand it correctly. I'll come to a conclusion. I believe that the Dutch government should not interfere too much with the Pilots. Those are professionals who do it for the day and for the day. 95,000 ships a year enter the Netherlands via the pilotage obligation. We must have great respect for that. In general, that goes very well. If things go wrong, we also have big tramp, but so far a lot is going well. I want to know what the Minister can do to ensure that, without the Ministry pulling things towards him. In 1988, we didn't self-destruct the Pilots for nothing. It is independent and operates reasonably mean and lean, because the man who was chairman there was also immediately the warehouse. They combine things there, and I think that's wise. So I think the pilots are very important and I think the port of Rotterdam is very important. The pilots keep our ports safe and therefore our economy running. I wish them much support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr Dijkstra refers to the point I also made about the training and the demands we make on captains of small ships. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me and the pilot ship that we should also have a final test for the captains of the small ships with which we can test the knowledge and skills?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u7	Yes. I just heard about that. I was just browsing right away, and we also asked questions about that, both your party and mine. I have the Minister's answer here. She says it's actually not even an enlightenment, but a slight increase, if I read it correctly. She comes with the PEC 35248; well, you can read it in the note of reply. I mentioned the small sea-going vessels themselves, even though they are smaller than the last size. The B goes from 75 meters high, but of course the A is underneath. The ships up to 75 meters must also be safe from A to B. There are requirements for this too. I have no reason to doubt that, in the answer given by the Minister, I have read that security has been properly secured and that this remains the case in the new proposal, which is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u8	You're on the same page!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u9	Not quite in my opinion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u10	Not quite?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u11	You know, a lot of times. More and more!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u12	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u13	More often than you love! I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr Laçin does not entirely take that as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u15	No, he doesn't like that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u16	Sometimes we can find each other; let's leave it at that. The question remains the following. Nor do I necessarily doubt the Minister's answer. I only think that, as Mr Dijkstra also points out, the small ships are in an environment in which very large ships pass by. I do think that we should also be able to take the captains of these small ships a form of a knowledge test. That is not the case now, but that is a change I would like to make. Whatever test that's gonna be, I'm gonna take a moment in the middle, but I'm gonna need a background check. It's missing now. I would like to ask Mr Dijkstra whether he agrees with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u17	I'll wait for the Minister's answer. I certainly agree that things should be safer. People who sail a ship, whether it's big or small, feel that responsibility, too. I mean, what you get assigned when you become captain of a big or small ship at the age of 30 or 35 is quite something. So I expect us to do sensible things there, but not everything can be done here in the law. A lot of this law will result in all kinds of... What is it? I understand that the Minister will return to that in her work. It must be practical, because we cannot put everything in the letter of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Laçin is pleased that there is a slight difference of opinion. I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. I have also noticed that the VVD is moving more and more towards the SP and that they are much more in agreement with each other, indeed. Unfortunately, I'm a little afraid we're very much in agreement today. As a third spokesperson, you don't expect all the grass to be mowed away at your feet, but I think that's pretty much the case today. Today we are discussing a bill to revise the pilotage obligation. Let the PVV start by complimenting everyone who has been working on this, because it has been going on for a while. That is a good thing. The PVV gets positive sounds from the field about the proposed renewal. That a good and smooth flow of shipping traffic is important for the safety of our ports, the PVV was able to hear from first hand when it sailed with the men of the pilotage in the Rotterdam port in November. As colleagues have already pointed out, it is impressive how they face that rugged North Sea, with a rope ladder aboard a huge oil tanker, and then this enormous danger was safely brought into the harbor. The Netherlands would not be able to do without these hard workers, who lead everything in the right direction. The PVV would therefore like to draw attention to the questions that still exist in the sector about this legislative proposal. Even if the PEC grants an exemption from the pilotage obligation for a master of a given ship, safety is still at one level. Then, according to the sector, why is there no assessment of knowledge of local regulations, communications, navigation, topography, etc.? This came across to the colleagues as well. These are things that a captain with an exemption in his pocket should know about, aren't they? Can the Minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. The suggestion is raised that any consequences of an incident by small ships will be less severe. Is the Minister aware that even these smaller ships are simply part of the overall traffic picture in these busy Dutch ports and that this suggestion does not really make any sense? We've been able to see that one of those little ones passed by just a little while before one of those big ones. That could have all kinds of big consequences. The sector also points to the risk of bread robbing. In fact, if the captain has a PEC in his pocket, he can in principle also sail a pseudo-pilot service. The sector has calculated that there is a possibility that one master on one route with eight PECs could work for a total of eight different ships. We would also like to receive a response from the Minister. For the rest, the PVV is very pleased with the law that is now before us. I think that this is an improvement on the old situation and that we can use it to set up security in our ports in the right way, especially thanks to the pilotage system. Thank you for her commitment and for that of all the other organisations that have been involved in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Is a ten-minute suspension okay? I see that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u21	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several MPs have explained their experiences with the Pilots. I think it's kind of funny to do that myself. I have had the same experience, because I was on the high seas on a rope ladder up against one of the largest container ships and then entered the port at the invitation of the pilot ship. Unfortunately, I wasn't lucky enough to have sunny weather. When I arrived in the morning, they said it was the maximum wave height that still seemed to be allowed; it was on the edge. That only increases the respect for what these people are doing day and day in, day out. With me it was during the day, but it was windy. Then when you see how such a ship must enter the port, how incredibly close that stings when maneuvering... Because of the hugely powerful wind that was there then, those hugely thick bunches were not enough to dock at the quay. A boat had to keep pushing, because otherwise that huge floating apartment building would be blown away. Then you will see for yourself how incredibly important it is that skilled professionals do that for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u23	What a beautiful wallet you all have!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u24	We're going through such exciting things! If you send an invitation, I'm sure they'll welcome you with open arms. Then to the bill. Mr Laçin asked: what is the problem, why do we have this proposal? The pilotage obligation is mainly for ensuring safety. That's the most important thing. There's a reason we don't know the expression in our language that you're getting people through something. You must be able to trust that you will arrive safely at the destination. That is what this is all about: the safe and smooth handling of shipping. The current pilotage system came from 1995 and was really needed to maintain it. It really wasn't up-to-date for the current practice anymore. The new system provides for greater uniformity in exemptions and exemptions. We have retained the customization by region, which is necessary because each port is different and has different circumstances. What were the problems? The problems were, for example, in practical matters. So the coordinates of the water were no longer fully up-to-date. These are practical things that must of course be adapted. Certain exemptions no longer fit into the current legal framework. What you actually saw was that since 1995 there had been an incremental solution sought in each port by the harbor master, in most cases together with the pilots. This has led to the current system being incredibly complex, opaque and fragmented. There are really inexplicable differences between ports in the current system. We have tried to solve this and to standardise it as much as possible with, once again, maintaining the tailor-made approach for the region. We have done so by introducing a so-called PEC structure: pilotage exemption certificate. This replaces the current exemptions and exemptions. Through this system, demands are made on the master's knowledge and skills to ensure safety. Such a PEC shall grant a master specific exemption for a particular journey with a particular ship. For the implementation of this PEC structure, we have listened in particular to the advice of the harbor masters in the various ports. We have just listened to the harbor masters, because they have no interest other than security. A number of members pointed out that the current proposals had been drawn up in close consultation with stakeholders. For the rest, of course, we have also looked at the future-proofing of legislation and regulations, including the introduction of an experimental determination and the updating of the description of the water subject to pilotage. But you can all see that developments around autonomous sailing are coming. I do not know how a pilot would, in a manner of speaking, lead an autonomous ship at sea into the port and how that cooperation would then have to proceed. We don't know all that yet, but it's important that you open up your legislation to possible new developments. Before the Members of Parliament take that approach: that must of course be done with due regard for security! It must have been secured, of course. The harbor masters are the ones who grant those exemptions. Mr Laçin also drew attention to the possibility of pressure being put on harbour masters and to the fact that they really need adequate cover. There's plenty of backup, especially from the Ministry. The system contains sufficient frameworks for this. Harbormasters are independent authorities in charge of nautical security in ports. They have been given regulatory powers and are accountable to the Ministry. If there are harbour masters somewhere who feel pressured for any reason or in any way, they could report to us. In addition, the training and examination of the various modules for such a PEC, for such an exception, are housed in the Loodsweer. A PEC can therefore only be issued if the corresponding modules are fulfilled. A harbor master can't just hand over a PEC, apart from the fact that the harbor master himself stands for security. So I would like to emphasise that a harbor master within the port company really has an independent role and works under my mandate as minister and therefore does not answer to the rest of the port company, or to anyone else. What can the Minister do to ensure security without dragging everything to the Ministry? That was a question from Mr Dijkstra. We have a great deal of faith in the knowledge and expertise of the harbor masters, as I have just said. They shall be independent as competent authority. They also provide the training of the modules and the examinations. Harbormasters are also responsible and draw up the final terms to be met by such a module. The pilots remain within these frameworks. Then the pseudo sheds. Mr Laçin is right to say that there should not be any robberies of bread. We do not want cowboys on the water to compete for pilotage services and for commercial reasons to do pilotage trips as quickly as possible. Those aren't his words, but that's how I interpret it. I think that is really well secured, because we too certainly do not want pseudo-houses. Although the rules currently in force do not limit the number of exemptions and exemptions per master, there are no known cases of masters who have a lot of exemptions and who would like to work as pseudo sheds. The new regulation also includes more multiple mechanisms to prevent pseudo-houses. For example, each year a master must meet the frequency requirement for a particular route in order to maintain his PEC. A captain who has a lot of PECs will therefore have to travel a lot of those frequency trips. In addition, in order to be able to use a PEC, a master must be employed by a shipowner or have been on board for at least 24 hours on the ship in question and have already been on board in the previous port or remain on board until the next port. A separate PEC is required for each ship per route. In the new system there is no further subscription of other ships. I hope that will remove Mr Laçin's concerns. Mr Dijkstra has asked questions about the language of instruction. Worldwide there is a lot of English spoken on the ships. It is of the utmost importance everywhere for safety that waterway users can communicate with each other. The language for inland navigation in the Netherlands is Dutch under the international, here very well-known CCR regulations. Since sea-going vessels and inland waterway vessels can sail together in ports and meet in the weaving areas, masters of sea-going vessels in most ports must speak passively or actively Dutch. If you don't, you can't get an exemption from the pilot duty. Of course, our pilots all speak excellent Dutch. Let me say specifically about the PECs, because some questions have been asked about them. Under the regulations, half the number of sailing movements is sufficient; would that not put safety under pressure? That's actually what all three gentlemen asked, I get the impression. This is an exemption from the requirement that a master must meet the frequency requirement every year to keep his PEC exemption. This possibility exists already in the current legislation and so far does not pose any problems or abuse. Harbormasters monitor security and will only occasionally use this option. It really isn't meant to get rough and rough. This is also clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum to Article 4 of the Pilotage Regulation, which states that a master may not avail himself of this exemption for several years at a time. Then about checking the knowledge and skill, specifically with the small ships. Captains of a certain type of small sea-going vessels, up to 115 meters and if you look at them often similar to an inland waterway ship, are now exempt without any requirement in the current register of small sea-going vessels. There is now an exemption only on the basis of ship characteristics. On the contrary, the new regulations impose requirements on the knowledge and skills of the master, namely knowledge of the local rules and knowledge and, of course, control of the language of the port. That knowledge is being tested on two modules, so a review is already foreseen. An examination must be carried out for knowledge of the local rules of navigation. At the moment, only the pilots are authorized to give that training and to take the exam. In order to have sufficient knowledge of the language, it must be demonstrated that language level A2 is achieved. This must be demonstrated with a certificate unless someone is a native speaker born in the Netherlands. Here too, there is an increase in the level of legislation in force. I agree with what the Chamber says about this, namely that it is also necessary from the security point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u25	It is true that the two modules that have now been added and which I mentioned in my contribution are an increase. I agree with the Minister. As far as we're concerned, that's what we need. It's just that I don't think it's gonna go far enough. I think that the knowledge and skills of a captain of a smaller ship in the port of Rotterdam, for example, where very large ships are present, should be able to go a little further, e.g. modules 4 and 5. That's about the harbor itself. That's about the theoretical knowledge of what's going on there. It shall not be tested because they are not bound by Modules 4 and 5. I would ask the Minister once again whether it is not possible, perhaps in a slightly lighter form, to carry out a knowledge test on the practice within the port of captains of small sea-going vessels, because they do not do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr Laçin rightly makes the distinction that there are other modules. For the other PECs, there will be five modules. We wanted to make a distinction between the large and the small ships. Since there is already an increase here and there are not really any safety issues that would justify making further demands on this group, I would suggest that we first look at how this works in practice. Once again, no demands have been made. If there are any signs that there really is an urgent need to extend it, then my proposal would be to look at it later. But since it is already an increase, I would like to leave it at that for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u27	I understand that distinction between small and large sea-going vessels. That is what I have said in my contribution. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be all five of the same modules, but I think a form of a test is necessary. We don't agree with the Minister. I shall therefore ask the Chamber for a ruling on this later on with a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u28	Then perhaps explaining: they are indeed sailing in the same system. That's obvious. But it is an important distinction. The Members of Parliament who have been with us will have noticed that for the maneuverability, for the possibility of maneuvering, it is quite important whether you are sailing on a small ship or on such a huge ship. That is why this distinction has been made with regard to those modules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u29	The Minister's last comment reinforces the argument: precisely because the small one is manoeuvrable, but the big one is not. They're in the same traffic picture. The minute that little guy makes a mistake, the big guy gets hurt. It is precisely in order to prevent this that I think we need to expand this. That is what I have experienced in practice, that such a small person chose, of 'well, it still works'. Well, that big one, you're not gonna hold on to it at all. So either it goes wrong, or we can just capture it now. I don't really see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u30	We have tried to find a proportionate balance, again, with all stakeholders together. There are no demands now. There will be demands in the new system. The smaller ships are also tested on both the language and the knowledge of the rules of navigation. The exams are taken by the pilots. I'm confident that's enough. If it isn't, the bell will be ringing. But all the more so since there is no problem at the moment and there are no demands now, I do not want to go crazy at once. Then we've been asked about the frequency requirement of those 18 calls. For the expertise, in order to be truly experienced, it is necessary to navigate an area eighteen times a year. The largest ships fall into the heaviest PEC category, PEC D. That's what the 18 calls are for. That's already the frequency requirement for those big ships. So we're not gonna change anything about that. A captain with a ship under PEC D and who doesn't make the 18 calls won't go for a PEC either, because that frequency requirement is necessary to maintain that captain's local fame. As far as the exceptions are concerned, I have just indicated that it is really not intended to be allowed to happen regularly. It's okay for once. The harbor master really does see to it that it is not going to be a serial exemption. Then the limit of 160 meters for PEC C in Rotterdam. It is in line with the advice of the harbour master of Rotterdam. Well, I guess I'm just gonna go back to underlining that that's the independent authority. Captains of ships between 160 and 170 metres fall into PEC D, with the newly named frequency requirement of 18 calls. PEC D is, as I just said, 18 calls already. The harbormaster of Rotterdam has also informed me that there is no need for adjustment. A specific question was asked about the regulation of pilotage in the Scheldt region. What comes out of the cooperation with the Scheldt Commission? The pilotage obligation for ships on the Westerschelde is governed by the Scheldt regulations, a treaty between the Netherlands and Flanders. That is why decision-making on the implementation of the pilotage obligation on the Westerschelde by the Netherlands and Flanders takes place jointly in the Scheldt Committee. The Dutch commitment to this is not going to surprise you.The aim is to join the new Dutch regulations as much as possible. Mr Dijkstra asked another question about the availability of data. Are there really enough data and data to support the choices and determine where the security risks lie? It was indeed difficult to get the good data for the new pilotage system, because there are data from the ship accident database, but these are not very detailed, certainly not detailed enough to decide on the pilotage obligation. In addition to the accident figures, other data were therefore needed. For this reason, the new regulation on pilotage provides for the obligation of the competent authorities to inform me annually on a number of issues, such as the number of voyages per year that take place without and with pilotage. It's very good that we can monitor that later. It also asks about the number of incidents involving exempted ships and ships on which a pilot was present. I expect that this will allow sufficient data and data to be collected by port, which could then serve as input for any subsequent changes if we ever wanted them to happen again in the future. Finally, questions have been asked about the working ships. Almost all of the vessels operating on pilotage waters, which are currently exempt, are also in the new regime. So there's no increase here. However, there will be a maximum length, in which ships falling within it can continue to use the exemption. Ships that are larger than the size of the fleet, but that is really only a few ships that can apply for an exemption, and therefore the competent authority has to provide tailor-made services. This adjustment in the regime is necessary because workships are increasing and not all workships just fit on all waterways. That is a very special branch of sport, which is also closely followed separately. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we're pretty much in line with the Minister. I've made some suggestions for improvement. Returning to the modules that small sea-going vessels have to do, I do not think that the assessment of the knowledge of the port, of the theory, is sufficient at the moment in the legislative amendment. That is why I have tabled a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the exemption from the pilotage obligation in the lowest category of PEC A does not currently require any form of practical or theoretical testing;]] [[Whereas, although the size of these vessels is limited, they enter the same busy sailing waters as ships whose master is required to comply with heavy requirements for pilotage exemption;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a form of assessment for category PEC A in the interests of the safety of our waterways and to inform the Court before the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35248-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion on the working ships, but I can live with the explanation given by the Minister, so I do not submit them. I do have one final motion. It can actually be taken into account. It's an evaluation motion. I understand that the evaluation will only take place after five years. I believe that this is rather late for a legislative amendment which could have some effect on the waters. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this legislative proposal concerns a review of the pilotage obligation;]] [[Whereas this may have an impact on the busy Dutch waterways;]] [[calls on the Government to review and share with the Chamber the drafting of this legislative amendment one year after the introduction of the pilotage obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35248-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u34	Finally, Mr President. Once again, the SP is in favour of this legislative amendment, so I hope that the Minister will be able to take our proposals with her in her second term. It'll only get better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you. And thank you very much, Mr. Futzelaar. This is one of the few moments when the physical appearance of a Member of Parliament is sufficient. You can say something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u36	The tragic thing is, last night, I had the same role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u37	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Mr Futselaar for his presence as a voter. I think we have a good law ahead of us. We have outlined the history and we have been able to experience it all. We have asked a number of questions and I think the answers to them are clear. I also understand the point of English. I've seen a inland waterway ship pass by, and you won't see it at some point. That disappears behind the containers and you think, "Oh, there he is again." I understand that that needs to be clear. The point of the 160 or 170 meters makes perfect sense to me. Based on the data, we can see how this develops in the future, but I think the choice is wise. I don't think we should tinker with this delicate structure. Thank you. Let's keep the pilots and everyone involved safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thank you, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Two or three minutes? Then I'll suspend for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u40	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's clear: two motions. I welcome the support of the Chamber for this new legislation on pilotage. Both motions belong to Mr Laçin. The first, in part No. 9, calls on the Government to draw up a form of review for a category PEC A and to inform the Court of Justice before the end of this year in order to ensure the safety of our waterways. I share with Mr Laçin the need to ensure maximum security. In fact, I think it is a little too definite to really draw up a form of review. So I share his view that we want to ensure that safety there, of course, but PEC A is only about the north and there are no security issues known at the moment. So I am not in any way unsympathetic about it, but I think it is going too far now to really make a review of it. If you were to ask me to discuss it, or to follow it closely, or anything in that sphere, I might be opposed to it. But at the moment, I think it goes too far to really make a review of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u42	Okay, I get that. I don't agree, but I understand. At the end of the day, I am concerned that safety on busy waterways is also guaranteed. I believe that a certain form of scrutiny, a slight form of scrutiny, can provide a solution there. So I'm trying to think now about how the Minister thinks it's completely secured at the moment when it's not being tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u43	We haven't known any security issues so far either. For this category, at least two test modules are added: the language and the rules of navigation. Maybe we could have another conversation about the following. In the other motion, in part No. 10, ask you to review the legislative amendment one year after the introduction of the pilotage obligation. I might as well give you an undertaking to include it in that, because I would like to give that motion a Chamber of Appeal. After a year, let's look at whether these two modules meet the needs or whether more is needed. As far as I am concerned, that might be a good way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u44	In any case, I welcome the judgment on the second motion. I'm going to think about whether I might be able to rephrase that first motion. Then you may see an amended motion passing by. Well, I'll settle for this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u45	I am therefore not yet positive about the first motion. I don't recommend it in its present form. The second motion I'll pass judgment on Chamber. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-9.u47	We will vote on the bill and the motions tabled next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. This has to do with the fact that a debate planned for today has been withdrawn from the agenda because of various circumstances.
