ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the turn of the year. I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for the Environment and Living and, of course, the Members of Parliament. We shall begin with the first speaker and the applicant for the debate. I see Mr Van Raak. What's going on, Mr. Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u2	Well, I have a point of order. On behalf of the House of Representatives, you have sent letters to the Cabinet in which you complain on our behalf that information is in the newspaper before it is sent to the Chamber. You rightly say, on behalf of the Chamber, that this is a serious breach of the information position of the Chamber. Friday we received a letter from the minister, but Thursday it was already in the newspaper. Then we Members of Parliament get a call asking how we feel about that, but we cannot respond to that. We can't do our controlling work. It keeps happening, no matter how many letters we send. So I would first like to ask the ministers to apologize, to apologize for dealing with the Chamber, for the fact that plans are leaked to the newspaper again before they are sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u3	So this is a point of order. We're about to start with the first term. One of the ministers may wish to respond to this in the first period. It's okay now, too. I'll give the Minister the floor. It's not gonna be a debate, Mr. Van Raak. It's a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that it was extremely annoying for my colleague Van Veldhoven and me to find a rather speculative report in the media on Thursday. That's one. Two. I don't have any indication that that's coming from our departments. As I said, I find it very unfortunate that this happens regularly, but I do not see any reason to apologise for it. This debate also took place two years ago, in June 2018, on the same subject, namely the turn of the year. Then I said the same thing: there is no interest for us in such a letter... Besides, even if the interest were there, it didn't come from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u5	Good. A short response and then we're going to start the debate. You did make your point, Mr. Van Raak. It's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u6	Yeah, but still. I find the Minister's reaction incomprehensible. He says there's been a leak to the paper, but it's not from the Ministry. But who's it from? Whose is it? Then where did it come from? Plans made on the towers, made in the ministries. Then where do they get leaked? Are they falling out of the sky? Are they growing on the tree? I notice that the Minister is not prepared to apologize. I think that's an affront to the House of Representatives. I will deal with it in detail later on in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u7	I'd be fine with that. You don't have to respond to that, Minister. Any point of order, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yes. I have a little difficulty with the fact that it is not supported by Mr Van Raak where it comes from. It might as well be from the room. It could come from anywhere, and I still need to mark it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u9	Then you've done the same. We shall now proceed to the debate. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A debate on the turn of the year. Try to imagine. We're gonna have a new party. That proposal is being made. It's gonna be a great party, all of the Netherlands is in on it. We all know that at a party like this, aid workers get kicked with fireworks. We know it's gonna lead to 1,300 people getting hurt and getting into a doctor's office or emergency room. We're throwing a party and we know there's been damage at the end of that party for 15 million euros. Would we be organizing that? Would we call that a great tradition? Would we say "this is so beautiful, this should continue"? I don't think so, but that's the situation we're in right now. This turn of the year was different for me than other years. I was allowed to walk with the police here in The Hague. I really thought that was a privilege. I was allowed to see at close range what you actually know, namely that if there is danger, if there is a fire somewhere or is thrown with fireworks or if there is something else going on, you as a citizen will move quickly in the opposite direction, while these aid workers go there, regardless of the danger that there is also for themselves. We were all prepared for the worst here in The Hague. There was a total battle planned. We were driving around and I felt like "well, it's actually not that bad." It was about 2:30, 3:00 that we went to the emergency room. There I dared to say to the commander, who has served here for many years as a police officer: gosh, I was not so happy with everything. Then he said, "It wasn't so bad? 1,500 reports from 12:00, do you think that's not so bad?" The shame was on my jaws, because of course it wasn't easy. But we were so set on it, or at least I was so set on it that it was going to be a battle, that everything wasn't so bad. That's exactly what happens to that whole old and new thing: we're just gonna think that this is the way we're gonna party together, but it's not just. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore truly convinced that it is high time for a ban on fireworks. Not just me, but the majority of the Netherlands seems to be ready for a fireworks ban right now. Most people, including those who are sending me reports, are not in favour of a ban because they hate fireworks. I don't belong to that category either. I actually like fireworks. I, too, have had a lot of fun putting that off, but despite that, I can see that this can no longer continue. That's why we need a fireworks ban. First of all, a firework ban that can be enforced. That is my big criticism of the cabinet's proposal. The cabinet's proposal leaves so much fireworks that it can't actually be enforced by the police. Too many different types of decorative fireworks remain. They're acting like decorative fireworks aren't dangerous. Ornamental fireworks can also continue to fall over. An ophthalmologist has calculated that 57% of the eye injury will still exist. That's more than half. The police indicate that there is still all kinds of decorative fireworks that sounds like ornamental, as beautiful, as beautiful.... that can be thrown to colleagues. Fungi seem to be innocent, little fireworks dancing around on the ground, but are of the kind of fireworks that can be thrown. Stop this! We owe it to all those aid workers in the Netherlands, to all those fireworks victims. What's needed is a real firework ban. That is why the Animal Party and we have been working on this ban in recent times. There is now a bill that regulates a general ban, but also allows for an exception that the Minister could make, a 'positive list', as we call it. You can then come to the conclusion after consultation with doctors, police, mayors and prosecutors that there may be some kind of fireworks that we can still maintain, which we could still turn off. As far as we are concerned, there is that space in that bill, but then we go to a very, very limited assortment. This proposal improves safety and is genuinely enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Mrs Den Boer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u12	I have, of course, listened with great interest to Mr Klaver's speech and proposal. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to read anything yet. My group and I would like to do so to see how far your proposal goes. If I see it correctly, your ban does not amount to a total ban, but, for example, allow children to set off stars or throw peacocks. Is that all that's left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u13	The category F1 continues to exist. Yes, it's about peacocks and stars. So if someone has a birthday and wants an asterisk on their cake, they can still do it. The proposal creates a general ban. That's what it starts with. Why is that important? That's normal. By this we say that it is really not normal to put off fireworks and explosives like this; we want to stop doing that. But at the same time we say that we are not blind to the tradition that arose a long time ago. There may be certain types of fireworks that you can light off. We leave room to deviate from this by ministerial arrangement and to make a 'positive list', as we call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u14	If I understand correctly, such a positive list already exists. As the proposal now sounds, we are going to ban a lot of things and allow very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u15	I didn't see a proposal. That proposal has been announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u16	No, but I would like to take a look at Mr Klaver's speech. He says it's a ban. My question is whether we can continue to do nice things for the people. D66 endorses the cabinet proposal, which represents a major step towards a safe year-end. The question is what alternative we can offer together with GroenLinks to the people in the country to have a nice new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u17	Nice things for people. Who could be against that? I'm really sorry, but I'd like to say that the way you build up your speech is truly naive. Of course there has to be a nice new year. Of course there must be fireworks shows in the country. Of course it is important that neighbors meet at 0am to wish each other a wonderful New Year. But we are indeed in favour of banning as much as possible and actually all the fireworks, because we stand up for those policemen who are being plundered, because we stand up for all those animals who have a terrible turn of the year. Not only during the turn of the year, it is terrible, even in the time before that. It is not perseverable that we continue to light fireworks in the way we did. You're talking about nice things for people. That's what it is in being together. That's what's in it for us to do fireworks shows. That's why we're looking very critically at whether a particular type of fireworks could possibly still be turned off. But don't pretend we couldn't have fun with each other because of the fact that we can't light up fireworks anymore, that we can't have a new year or that we can't have fun with each other anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u18	I do hear something positive, namely that Mr Klaver would like to allow fireworks shows to be held in the country. On that point, I would like to reach out to Mr Klaver and say: let us work together to ensure that this remains possible in the country, that it is encouraged and that it can be done in a professional way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u19	I think that's excellent. If we can agree that there will be a ban on the firing of fireworks by consumers, but that we will encourage the organisation of fireworks shows throughout the country where fireworks are fired by professionals, then we can find each other on that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I said we didn't see a proposal. In fact, I wanted to say that this is really about the cabinet's proposal. If Mr Klaver's proposal comes to the Chamber, it will be discussed in detail. Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A happy and safe year change is important for everyone in the Netherlands. It should be a nice party. Unfortunately, that's not the case right now. Many places have been alarmed by violence and aggression this year. In addition, there was 15 million euro damage. Call that average. Many cars, containers and bicycles went up in flames. Lantern poles turned out to be matchwoods. There were over 9,300 incidents, despite all previous measures. The tragic death of a father and his son as an indirect result of fireworks is a sad low point. For all these reasons, D66 wishes to follow the advice of the Security Research Council. This reflects the wishes of many: mayors, police officers, ambulance staff, firefighters. And not least, there is the ever louder call from society. Mr. Chairman. A ban on fireworks and flares is needed. The cabinet must take this step now. It took a while. Maintainers are often the first target. D66 is pleased that political support is now coming. There will be a ban on fireworks and flares, already before the coming year. That is particularly desirable. In addition, there will be an investigation into the relationship between the type of fireworks and the type of injury. That is also very welcome. Mr. Chairman. I do have a few more questions. How will services that have a lot of work to do at the turn of the year, such as the police, be involved in the implementation of these measures? Are they sitting at the table and are they also given the opportunity to think with? How is the cabinet going to ensure that the measures taken are actually enforceable? When is the outcome of the announced research expected? Mr. Chairman. With this decision, other ornamental fireworks, including fountains and ground flowers, remain available for people. In this context, the police are calling for a positive list. This list already exists, as I said earlier, but D66 asks the Minister if it is possible to bring this list to the attention of people so that it is clear which fireworks remain available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mrs Den Boer says that she supports the cabinet's proposal for a ban on flares and fireworks only. Mrs Den Boer was also at the hearing on this subject yesterday. It has therefore also heard that the ophthalmologists say that 57% of the injury is the most serious injury, which is due to decorative fireworks. More than half of the problem is caused by decorative fireworks. You're not solving the problem by banning less than half of the dangerous fireworks and letting the rest of it exist, are you? I am not talking about the lung patients and the asthma patients, who breathe all that fine dust and look at that New Year's Eve with fear and trembling, because of the air they have to breathe in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u23	I don't really hear a question, but more of a remark. Yeah, I was at that hearing yesterday. Yeah, I've heard the stories, of course, including the ophthalmologist's. They're very intrusive. I share the concerns about the massive injury, the eye injury, which can be caused. I also read the stories in the OVV report, about a woman who, as a bystander, was struck by a flare and then had enormous medical care and even suffered a miscarriage. That's an incredibly intrusive story. So I share those concerns with you. For us as D66 the measure is indeed full. We can't do this anymore. But I also think that the measures proposed by the cabinet are already incredibly advanced. We are taking a big step now, that is what the cabinet is doing, and I think that, combined with measures taken locally, for example, or fireworks glasses, which we were talking about yesterday, can make a huge difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u24	Well, let's talk about the fireworks. What we heard yesterday was that those fireworks were not very useful to those who set off the fireworks, but especially to the bystanders. But D66 also wants there to be less plastic; you can't spread 17 million glasses to Dutch people? How does D66 see that problem? You can't say "we're gonna sort this out a little bit by handing out fireworks glasses, and we're just gonna let a really big part of the problem exist; we're gonna let that 57% just exist and the rest we're gonna solve with fireworks"? What does D66 think about the pollution that this produces, and doesn't D66 see that most of the problem is not being addressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u25	D66 considers the measures of firework glasses to be a very good one. At the moment the fireworks glasses are provided by the fireworks dealers, if fireworks are purchased. But the question is of course: do people wear those glasses? And what is the awareness of potential damage that fireworks can do? Then I'm talking about both legal and illegal categories. I would hope that people in the Netherlands will also have more understanding of this and will also be able to wear more insight into its consequences, and such fireworks, wherever they are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u26	I am not yet fully aware of how the solution of the cabinet, which actually supports D66 indirectly, will lead to enforcement. Mr Wassenberg rightly points out: you solve about half the problem. That corresponds exactly to half of the D66 population: half want it and the other half don't. It's all a bit half-baked, when you see that of ornamental pots and fountains goes off 26% too early and 24% explodes when it shouldn't. Then we can't just say "we'll allow it," with the idea: we'll solve half of it? It is completely unknown to me, what a half-baked solution this is now from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u27	I have already said that I think that following recommendation 1 of the Security Research Council is a very good and good step in the right direction, and that we can really make a difference with that. Of course, this is the most important measure, but not the only one. We know that a lot of other measures are being taken. The police themselves have said that this ban, as it is now proposed, is enforceable as it was actually proposed by the OVV in 2017. As far as I am concerned, the police, together with other enforcers, are actually going to make sure that the right plans are made, that the proper capacity is put on the road and that this is going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u28	What's to stop D66 from taking responsibility and not hiding behind the OVV or behind the police? We really have a very big and serious problem, and we accept with each other that we have 10,000 incidents and that we put away our expensive police capacity, which we have often had debates about, at tens of thousands of man-hours during the turn of the year. Why do we do that? Why don't we say to each other, "This is just not good. We are not going to maintain it, because it does not need to be maintained."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u29	Fireworks are, of course, not the only problem. But it's an important problem. I recognize that; of course I share those concerns. But we really value the expertise of the OVV. That is a validated report, written on behalf of the G4 and with a very compelling advice. That is what we wish to follow now. We assume that this is actually feasible and enforceable and that it will actually make a difference with other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u30	About the G4. A number of mayors, the mayors of the big congregations, have written us a letter. They beg: Mrs Den Boer, please give us that ban at national level, otherwise we will have to organize it locally, like the municipality of Rotterdam. That's gonna be some kind of regulatory patchwork. How are we gonna organize that? In Capelle, in Maassluis, yes, and then what in Schiedam? How are we gonna do that with each other? Those who quote you, the mayors, say: help us; this is simply no longer to be done. You're just gonna let them down; you're gonna let them down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u31	Last night, very late, à la dernière minute, a letter came in from a number of mayors, from five mayors. We have 300 other municipalities in the Netherlands. They may have a different idea of how they want to fill out the new year. Of course, this is an important advice to us, but with this step of the cabinet we are going more towards a uniform regulation, which is applicable everywhere in the Netherlands. That makes a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u32	Still, a very specific question about the decorative fireworks and the glasses. We were at that hearing yesterday, and then we got photos of fireworks victims from the ophthalmologist, among others from decorative fireworks victims. We saw a picture of someone whose face was one bloody mass. We saw the colors of the metals from that decorative fireworks still in that face. It was hardly recognizable as a face. I would ask Mrs Den Boer how a firework shot helps with that kind of injury.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u33	I keep trying to make it clear that this is a whole range of measures. On the one hand, it is about enforcement, but on the other hand it is also about standardisation and awareness. The fireworks letter is part of that. When an ornamental fountain explodes in someone's face, I know that fireworks aren't gonna help. But what's going to help is that that person is going to think incredibly well before he's going to light that fireworks at all. That is what I hope to achieve with this debate: that people in the Netherlands, besides having fun, have fun with each other about a good new year, also think about responsible handling of fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u34	Please continue, Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u35	I have, of course, spoken a number of times about reality. Just expanding the ban doesn't reverse the tide. Enforcement is at least as important for a calmer course of the year. In addition, a culture must be created in which people who stand outside the law and put others at risk are tilted. Let us therefore take a careful look at alternatives. D66 likes to think along and has some suggestions. Is it possible first of all to involve residents more in the organisation of fireworks shows? In addition, there is justified criticism that fireworks can still be easily removed from abroad. As far as D66 is concerned, the cabinet must proceed as quickly as possible with a joint approach with Belgium and Germany on the sale and, of course, the controls of fireworks in the border regions, just across the border with neighbouring countries. It is also an option to tighten up European regulations and remove more fireworks from the market. Finally, I ask the rulers to look at the possibility of using more police volunteers. We all know there are capacity problems with the police, which you don't just solve. Volunteers may be trained and better deployed to provide extra hands to the police during the turn of the year. I would like to hear from the Cabinet on all these points what the possibilities are and whether there can be commitments on these points. Mr President, I shall conclude. D66 welcomes the steps that are now being taken. They are desperately needed, so that in future we have a new year that does not frighten but connects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u37	I just can't imagine you actually believe this yourself, that this is really what D66 stands for. This is a compromise from the cabinet. I understand all that perfectly. I would say: defend it as such. But in your contribution, I hear that the enforcers should be able to talk about how the ban is enforceable. The police just indicated that you would have to narrow it down even further, very securely, to compounds between 500 grams and 2 kilos. That is actually what we could still allow from the point of view of enforcement. We do not need an investigation; that has already been laid down. Why doesn't D66 respond to that call?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u38	We have looked very seriously at all the recommendations of the experts. I have mentioned the OVV report a number of times. The police have always supported following the OVV's first recommendation. Moreover, spokesmen from your group have also supported the fact that we would be making a huge step towards making the new year safer if we followed this recommendation. If we take that step, we will be coming a long way towards the police, along with the other measures that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u39	2017. This report is from 2017. Yesterday, the President of the Research Council said: "It is about 2017, the spirit of the time in which this report was written at the time. Plus, the investigation that is now under way into whether more fireworks should not be banned should have been done a long time ago. In other words: we are already many steps further. Public opinion has also changed. So now to go back to a report from 2017 and say that that was a good report... Yes, in 2017 that was a very far-reaching report. Now it's not far-reaching, but it's behind the facts. That is why we need to take a step further. That's why I'm asking you again. The police now state that it is important for enforcement and security to further limit the type of fireworks that we allow on the positive list. That's about compounds in a certain range. Why doesn't D66 go along with that and he doesn't say: okay, fine, there can still be fireworks, but only this type of fireworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u40	I note that there are a lot of different opinions about fireworks in the country. Our party too has taken some steps to get here. We want to be a social-liberal party, which is not only patronizing or patronizing and forbids, but also allows people to celebrate the celebration. There are also millions of people in the Netherlands who like to light fireworks, with all the consequences. We can think of all kinds of things, but this is about social support. If we can make a very big step with that first recommendation, we are already very far ahead. Then we come to the police, as the police have asked, a terrible end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u41	To be quite honest, I am only moderately interested in what kind of party D66 would like to be, as I am also moderately interested in what kind of party GroenLinks would like to be, or the SP, or the VVD. What's our story at the next turn of the year for the cops getting kicked again? What's my story for the firefighter I met when he was putting out a fire and when I asked him if he'd seen the firehouse that night, he said, "No. I just got kicked with fireworks. But here I am again." Then what's our story? It's no use to them that D66 is trying to balance and maintain the fun for people in this country. We must stand up for the people who are threatened; that is our job as politicians. Your party may be divided, the country may be divided, but we need to show leadership and leadership. This means that you must come up with a ban that is enforceable and that the types of fireworks that may be turned off should be kept to a minimum. I see you're not moving a millimeter on that. I'm really disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u42	I find it very disappointing that Mr. Klaver makes a very ultra-short summary of it. D66 has tabled a number of motions to enable the local ban on fireworks, together with the Christian Union, and also to carry out an annual assessment of the effects of all measures at the turn of the year. D66 hasn't been idle. D66 has taken responsibility, but has also looked at the acceptance of society. You're shaking no, Mr. Clover. Non-verbal indicates that you disagree. We do have an understanding of that support. We also see other sounds. We now go along with the recommendations of the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u43	There you are again, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u44	Does D66 also see the dangers of displacement? Does D66 see that, if you don't ban all the fireworks, people who used to buy flares and fireworks are going to buy ornamental fireworks and that the injuries might be much larger? Mrs Den Boer has also seen that the injuries caused by decorative fireworks are much more serious. What does D66 think of the displacement effect? You can see that might make the problem bigger, don't you? Now 57% of the injuries are caused by decorative fireworks. That is going to be much more in absolute terms. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u45	This is an important question. And, of course, I share the concerns about this: there may be relocation effects as a result of a ban, whether it is a partial ban or a total ban. You always have to think about that. I see that in the letter the cabinet has promised to investigate this, including the type of fireworks that cause any injury. I welcome that. I also see that we still have an evaluation of the turn of the year. I share the opinion of Mr Dijsselbloem, who said yesterday: if it is not enough at some point, then we must start thinking again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We do not have a fireworks problem in the Netherlands, but a civilisation problem. Compared to other countries in Europe, especially in comparison with the countries directly surrounding us, where fireworks are a little bit available in the Dutch way, we are substantially worse able to have a party in public space run in a decent manner. We are talking not only about old and new, but also about paid football, fairgrounds, folk parties and wedding tours, not to mention the violence against policemen, firefighters and other aid workers. Mr. Chairman. A large part of the Dutch population has been dealing with fireworks in an appropriate and responsible manner for many years and enjoys them. But we have to face reality. That is why we support the government's plans. In the coming years, we will closely monitor the social trend in fireworks, including the interests of injury reduction and sustainability. We have already said that in five or ten years' time our year will have a totally different appearance. But if we do not dare to look into the underlying problem, if we do not collectively reflect on values and standards also on New Year's Eve, then we are failing ourselves. If we maintain confusion with tolerance, then we accept that the right of the strongest is worth more than the rights of the elderly who now dare not go outside, of the people with a pet sitting with fear and trembling at home or of, for example, PTSSs who experience the heavy cannons as hell. What are we going to do to change that collective mentality? What plans does the Cabinet have in that respect? Isn't it time for a civilisation offensive? How can we mobilise the good forces in society? We've been talking about it a long time. I'd like a response from the cabinet. What are the plans for this in the bosom of the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Then there's enforcement. If we don't get serious about enforcement, a further ban on fireworks is a joke. Enforcement is a problem. Look at the falling numbers on the arrest and trial of suspects. Whether it's legal or illegal fireworks, we all know that fireworks are already banned before New Year's Eve and that hardly anything is being done about them. The cabinet states in the letter that more specific capacity will be deployed during the turn of the year, but how does it imagine? Because indeed, we have capacity problems. Isn't that all it takes? In any case, the CDA is pleased that the D.A.'s guidelines will be amended, but we have more proposals. Firstly, we want the possibilities of preventive searching to be extended. How does the cabinet view this? Secondly, the government does not win the New Year's Eve if it does not start at 11 p.m. in the evening. It is about the explicit presence, even on the days before. Wouldn't it be time that we converted the collective free civil service moment that started on Christmas 3th into a proper presence in the neighbourhood of not only the police, but also other civil servants? They did that in Enschede and that was quite successful. Mr. Chairman. Finally, an enforcement plan. We shouldn't think we can pull this off in one year. This is gonna take years, maybe five years. Isn't it time to turn that into a national enforcement plan? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions. The first question concerns the category F1 fireworks. My question is actually very brief: is what we do there, well "pedagoochem"? We limit the fireworks, but we give our youngsters F1 fireworks first to learn with them. Then I think to myself: is that really wise? How does the cabinet view this? Secondly, I would like to mention a proposal from Mayor Remkes to close down houses and buildings. I'd like a response. Then the supplies. I am doing this very briefly, because I have a dark brown suspicion that my colleague from the VVD is talking more about it. What are we gonna do with that? (NL) Mr President, finally, the carbid shooting. For us, shooting carbid is a real tradition. The CDA is a party of the regions for the preservation of that tradition. I see Mr. Clover laughing very hard, so I think he stands for that too; I hope so. Can we be assured that the shooting of carbid can continue with these new plans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you to Mr Van Dam for his contribution. Mr Van Dam actually started with a very valid point: we have a civilisation problem. I know that he lives very close to Duindorp and has experienced how that turned into a kind of Raqqa on the North Sea. The carbid shooting is especially done in rural areas. Now we see that most incidents occur in the East Netherlands and the North Netherlands. Then where does that lack of civilization come from? 'Cause if we know, we're gonna have to deal with that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u49	I do not quite follow Mr Azarkan. What does he mean by "most incidents occur in..." What are they doing? And what kind of incidents? Does that have anything to do with carbid shooting? Or does that have to do with civilization?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u50	These are Table 1 incidents at the turn of the year per unit. We see that there were 1,611 incidents in the East Netherlands and 302 in the Amsterdam region. In the north of the Netherlands there were 1,489 compared to 603 in Noord-Holland. This is in the report we received. I conclude that relatively many incidents have been recorded in the middle and especially in the east and north of the Netherlands. The number of incidents is 9,300.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u51	But the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u52	My question is: how come this center of gravity is there? Why is there no civilisation there? It may also be the CDA's supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u53	What am I supposed to do with those numbers? That will depend very much on the capacity that was available at the time. That's very different, too. I can't make sense of this at all. Well, at least I know this. I think we can share that. Even if we ban fireworks, and this is what the cabinet is doing now, it does not mean that we have the leak and that, especially with our open borders, people have the decency to deal with fireworks in a normal way. That's what I'm arguing for. Otherwise, these understandable measures will not achieve what we want, namely to protect aid workers, to reduce the burden on animals and the whole palette that we want with each other. It's not in the fireworks, it's in the minds of the people who deal with them irresponsiblely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u54	But that's not exactly what you meant? Then you have to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u55	No, my question is different. If Mr Van Dam says he's running away from the facts and figures because he can't do anything with them, I'll save it for another time. I'm gonna stick to that. Mr Van Dam says, and I know him as well as I do, that we must protect our officers and emergency services. He says we have innocent victims to protect. If four out of ten people who are victims are just passers-by, then we have to protect those people. But Mr Van Dam protects half of it. I don't know him like that. He wants to allow half, as stated in the cabinet proposal. So he protects half the cops. He protects the fire department for half and he protects the passers-by for half. So two out of ten passers-by are protected and the other two aren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u56	I think this is an essential part of this debate: are we going to make whole corners? Are we going to ban everything now? There are, of course, arguments for this. I heard that ophthalmologist yesterday. I've seen those pictures. Good morning, that's not a bad thing. But on the other hand, you know as well as I do that you must have support for such measures. Yesterday Mr Adang, Professor at the University of Groningen, said that society must have understanding in order to be able to carry such measures. I don't think society understands that in three seconds you're going from 0 to 100. Society has changed. That's what they just said. Public opinion has changed in this area. We believe that there is an understanding in society of the measures that the cabinet is now taking. I have just told you that in five or ten years' time we may be at another point. We're going to follow that, too, but I can't, nor can I go to my constituency, make corners and ban everything. I think that's under this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u57	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The turn of the year is a tradition that does not include arson, destruction, intimidation or violence. That is what the letter we received from the ministers last Friday states. My group shares that view. Not much earlier, on 18 December 2019, the Chamber was informed that a number of types of consumer fireworks will no longer be allowed for the coming year. These are heavy consumer fireworks, the so-called category F3, and single shots. Without waiting for the effect of this, VVD and CDA announced on 14 January that they were suddenly in favour of banning all types of fireworks and flares. Last year, these parties and the cabinet were of the opinion that the turn of the year, and the associated lighting of fireworks, is a tradition that you should not torment. Have a look at the Acts of General Consultation of 28 May. At the time, the Minister said that a ban "is only reasonable if other measures do not work." We will never know what these other measures are, because before a new turn of the year we are now discussing an almost total ban on fireworks. Mr. Chairman. To what do we owe that? I cannot escape the impression that the upcoming elections have something to do with it, but it is certainly a fact that the Netherlands owes this to the European Parliament, and I cannot say otherwise, President-in-Office of the Council, scum that has indeed behaved inadmissible. But instead of taking action against it, the good citizens and the entrepreneurs are now being punished who have nothing to do with it. And is this almost total ban gonna help? No, definitely not. It's like telling a class with good kids at the start of class that you shouldn't be late. Those for whom it is meant are not there, the good children are. It must be possible to enforce the ban and its infringement must be severely punished. Unfortunately, due to the political choices of the VVD and the PvdA in a previous cabinet, there are far too few agents and there is also far too little enforcement capacity. Mr. Chairman. I therefore have a number of questions for the Minister, because my group sees many other measures that should be taken first. First of all, why does not the sales time of fireworks be severely reduced, namely only on the day when it may be turned off? Secondly, why is the group liability not extended so that an entire group can be arrested and severely punished? Thirdly, why does this cabinet tolerate soft drugs when it says in the letter itself that drugs and group pressure also affect the explosion of violence during the turn of the year? Fourthly, why is so little rapid duty applied after the turn of the year, the lick-on-piece policy? Fifthly, last but not least, where are the severe penalties for violence against aid workers? Or can the Minister guarantee that the bill on public service bans in the event of violence against aid workers will enter into force before the coming year? It was a commitment to my group in 2018, so hurry is needed. Mr President, I will conclude with a repeat of what I said earlier. It is my group's choice of two evils. People who want to celebrate the turn of the year by setting off normally legal fireworks on the one hand and aid workers who are going through more and more hard on that night on the other. In the hands of evildoers, many subjects are dangerous, but the core is enforcement. Detecting and confiscating illegal fireworks, cutting off fireworks outside the allowed time frame and preventing the damage and nuisance caused by fireworks and acting very strongly against those who see the turn of the year as a night of anarchy and harassing aid workers. Without a ban there has been tolerance and no one has been helped with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u59	I can, of course, fully endorse Mrs Helder's last sentence. Fireworks are a subject that evokes a lot of emotions. The country is divided, groups are divided. It has also been the case with me that I had a slightly different position from my group and I can remember that Mrs Helder had the same position. Two months ago when we were in a general discussion, Mrs Helder said: I personally am also in favour of a ban on fireworks, my group is not yet ready, but I personally am, and I would like the cabinet to come up with arguments with which I can convince my group. So I wonder what Mrs Helder's point of view is now and whether she thinks that the cabinet letter and the figures we have seen from the police may not be a reason and arguments to go for a partial ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u60	I can be very clear about that. My group is not convinced of this at all, I am not a member of the group and I personally am not, because the cabinet does not come up with any arguments at all and does not come up with any more enforcement capacity at all. I would also like to quote from what you said earlier: Mrs Yeşilgöz has not yet seen anything of this, but she assumes that Minister Grapperhaus will not leave the police in the cold and will arrange for additional enforcement and instruments. And that's not gonna happen at all. In the letter of 31 January we read a lot of things, such as tighter enforcement and preventive action, and then comes the core: this will happen within the existing police capacity. I just can't. Then the flight is picked forward and it is said: yes, but enforcement... I also heard yesterday from the police that they want to ban even small loose fireworks, arguing that this makes enforcement easier. But a ban doesn't apply because it makes enforcement easier. You enter a ban because you find something undesirable and then you're going to maintain it. So are my group and I personally convinced by the letter from this cabinet? Definitely not! I'm right behind every letter and every word I've just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u61	That's how I know Mrs Helder, of course, so that's what I'm assuming. I was just wondering whether the PVV Group would later, when we have the debate on fireworks, come up with its own proposal to ban fireworks, as Mrs Helder herself would have liked two months ago, with additional ideas on how to organise enforcement. Then we know what we can be prepared for and then we can talk about it. I actually heard Mrs Helder say two months ago that she wants a ban, but her group does not want that. Mrs Helder said: I hope the cabinet takes steps. Now steps are being taken and then suddenly it's election rhetoric. I find that complicated. I therefore hope that the PVV will show what it should look like. Then perhaps we can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mrs Yeşilgöz is very good at turning around. In her own faulty performance, she then reflects a bit on mine. I haven't said "personal" for nothing. I was not flogged back by my group. I used the word "personal." I agree with what my group thinks. It has always been clear that the PVV is not in favour of a fireworks ban. What certainly goes with it is enforcement that I have tried to highlight today. It's a one-on-one thing. But the first question is: is the PVV Group in favour of a ban on fireworks? No. Is there going to be a proposal? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u63	With regard to the comments on police capacity, Mrs Helder's contribution to this debate is entirely in line with what she says about it at other times. I was just wondering this. I made a proposal to make preventive search more possible. That means more resources in the hands of the police. How does the PVV feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u64	That sounds good, especially if you can do it within the existing capacity. If that actually means that the thugs are pushed back into the loft once, so that the good citizen can continue to light the legal fireworks, then I will certainly look at them with a positive look, without fireworks glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. The turn of the year should be a celebration for everyone, but it's not for the victims of fireworks. Every year violence is used against police, firefighters, emergency services, and that is totally unacceptable. Every year, hundreds of people are injured. In fact, last year, two people were killed. But there are also less visible victims of fireworks. More than half a million lung patients take a breath every year with old and new literally. They can't go out to wish their neighbors happy New Year, but they have to stay inside. Doors and windows have to glue them off, because even through the cracks the high concentration of fine dust penetrates. Concentrations that can reach a value of 60 times as high on the street as normal. Dogs and cats are terrified of fireworks. Then it doesn't matter if they're flares or if they're decorative fireworks or blasting fireworks. Horses often panic. They're trying to run. A quarter of the horses trying to escape are injured in such an attempt to escape. On January 1, dozens of dead geese were found on the beaches of Texel. Those animals had panicked from fireworks on New Year's Eve. They got disoriented, exhausted. Some of those animals ended up in the sea, drowned and washed up on Texel. Fireworks are prohibited for good reason throughout the year. The only exception is New Year's Eve. Then eight hours of fireworks can be lit off. For eight hours. That's less than a thousandth of the year. In that short time last year, 1,300 people, including many children, had to be treated for fireworks injuries. That has nothing to do with a party anymore. This is the most unsafe night of the year. More than half of the wounded are caused by decorative fireworks. In the case of eye injury, that's 57%. We heard from a hearing yesterday. In addition, the injuries caused by decorative fireworks are many times more serious than the other fireworks injuries. Does the cabinet recognise that more than half of the casualties are caused by decorative fireworks and that the most serious injuries are also caused by decorative fireworks? Then why doesn't the cabinet opt for a total ban? Mr. Chairman. Change is inevitable and the ban on fireworks and flares is now being welcomed as a very large measure and a far-reaching step. Honestly, it's a step in the right direction after all these years of trivializing the problem. A step the Party for Animals has been advocating for years. At the same time, it's only half a measure. The cabinet only dares to tackle half the problem. The monkey came out of the sleeve when the Minister for Environment and Living said last Friday that there is still a lot of beautiful fireworks left. But ophthalmologists and plastic surgeons are already seeing the problems for the next year. If this is a shift from firing arrows and blasting fireworks to decorative fireworks, isn't it gonna make any sense? Then we're even further away from home, because then the injuries get more serious. Moreover, decorative fireworks often explode on the street instead of high in the air. That means lung patients will catch even more breaths. Mr President, there is no such thing as safe fireworks. That's what we heard at the hearing yesterday. In order to prevent a ban on fireworks and flares leading to a shift to another category, which also causes serious injury and also causes victims to humans and animals, my party calls for a total ban on fireworks, even because such a ban is better enforced. That was confirmed by the police again yesterday. If all decorative fireworks are banned, it is easier to maintain, because how does a cop in the dark see whether a piece of fireworks is illegal or legal? With dozens of exceptions for decorative fireworks, it becomes open to the police mopping with the crane. That is why GroenLinks and the Party for Animals are proposing a total ban on consumer fireworks. We think that's the only way to make the New Year's Eve a party for everyone. That's what needs to be done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u67	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members have already indicated very well why it is important for us to have this debate, so I would like to confine myself to a number of specific questions. Firstly, I support the measures that the Cabinet has now announced and which were already advocated by the Security Research Council in 2017. We are not done with that and I have the following questions. Yesterday we indeed spoke with both the OVV and a spokesperson for the police. They said: we must now look into the other categories and see whether they remain enforceable or whether you should take further steps. I'd like to know what the cabinet thinks of this call. The second call they made concerned decorative fireworks. What you should maintain is decorative fireworks, but sufficiently stable, so that it is less easy to throw. I'd like to know from the cabinet how it feels about this call. I'd also like to hear from the Cabinet. Suppose we implement these measures. They are already being introduced at the turn of the year, but when we see that they are not actually enforceable in practice, does the cabinet have the willingness to finally proceed with a total ban, or at least take further steps? We are talking about a period of five years, when we actually see much earlier that it is not possible to do so and that other steps need to be taken. Then I guess you should have that willingness, too. I'd like a response from the cabinet. A number of questions have also been asked about illegal fireworks. Work has been done to further bring down the parcel mail and the way in which illegal fireworks are collected. At the same time, there is still a flourishing trade. At the same time we also see that there are all kinds of fireworks available in the Aldi's just across the border with Germany. How do we deal with that? Mr. Chairman. I also have a specific question on the fight against nuisance during the turn of the year in total. I come from a small village myself. That wasn't just about fireworks, it was also about setting the cars on fire. You don't necessarily need fireworks for that. I would like to mention the municipality of Leiden as an example. In 2002-2003 they had on average a minimum of €200,000 in costs of fireworks nuisance and destruction. They have now reduced this to a total of €23,000. In addition, this year they also opted for a total ban on fireworks within the city walls, which proved to be quite successful. So it also seems to me that one municipality is better able to provide an answer to fireworks nuisance and insecurity than the other municipality. Now I know that one city is not the other, but it often has to be a signal. I'd like to hear from the cabinet how it looks at that. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mrs Kuik was also present at part of the hearing yesterday. I think she missed the part when, among other things, the photos were shown by an ophthalmologist. She has now heard, and has been able to read, that 57% of the eye injury is caused by fireworks. In those photos, she can see that they're really horrible injuries, really horrible. A little glasses won't help that either. Does Mrs Kuik also see the danger that if we only ban flares and fireworks, we will get a shift to decorative fireworks and then perhaps we will be even further away from home, because the injuries will become more serious and perhaps also increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u70	That can indeed be a real risk. Mr Wassenberg is asking a fair question here. I'd like to direct it to the cabinet. That was also why I said: we are not done with that now, because if what is being proposed is not sufficiently manageable or that there are only side effects, then you must have the willingness to proceed with a total ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Chairman. As a little girl, I was looking forward to that one night, the last night of the year, on which I could not only stay up very late, but also light fireworks with my parents. Just, with us in the street, with the neighbors, wishing each other happy New Year and enjoying fireworks. Mighty loved that. Although I have to admit that I haven't bought fireworks for a long time, I know that there are millions of Dutch people who still like to do that. They look forward to that one night all year long when they can experience fireworks in a responsible and safe way. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, we also know that this beautiful ancient Dutch tradition is overshadowed and under pressure from terrible incidents. We have heard several colleagues about it. Officers are being attacked with flares. I talked to a cop who said it was like walking into a war zone. They're gonna destroy the place and set it on fire. We've even seen how a funeral procession was crowned. All these incidents mean that we have come to the point we are looking at: have we still found the right balance in our country with each other, or do we need a new balance? My group, like the cabinet, has said, so we can agree that a new balance sheet is needed. It is also said that we are in favour of banning fireworks and flares. But as far as the VVD is concerned, this includes a strong enforcement package. I have heard several colleagues on this subject, with all interesting ideas, so I would like to join in any case. Then we really think about things like: if you were responsible for destruction and ruining things for everyone at the turn of the year, then we want you to report to the police station next year and spend the turn of the year there. We're looking for a restraining order. They're already there, but we want them to be really imposed. We want the damage recovered from those who destroy the place, and when they're underage on the parents. We want all the possibilities of the Football Act, which has all these instruments, to be used. I would very much like the Minister to sit down with mayors and make very concrete agreements on this. There are mayors who do all this very well. There are also mayors who do not use a lot of instruments effectively. I would like to be able to follow here in the Chamber how we are going to work together to ensure that all this is used. Mr Van Dam mentioned preventive search. I would like to endorse his question. That is also very important to us. Mr. Chairman. With all the commitment we have to each other, we shouldn't be naive either. The next year wouldn't just go without a hitch. Now, if you're gonna make it into your head to shoot a flare at a cop, you're gonna find something else next year. We must continue to focus on enforcement. I would also like to say very clearly on behalf of the VVD that for us it is not a logical next step that we should ban more fireworks next year; that we would say that decorative fireworks should be removed from the market. That's not the next logical step. Then it is important to see where we have not done well with enforcement. Why is it so important to name this place? We are doing this not only for all the millions of Dutch people who want to know what we are meeting here and who want to know whether they can have a night of fireworks next year, but also for all those entrepreneurs, such as the bikemaker on the corner who largely takes his annual turnover out of the sale of fireworks. Often that is a third of the annual turnover. This entrepreneur wants to know what he's up to. He wants to know if he can still sell fireworks next year and if he can keep his business open. We have to be honest about that, too. Mr. Chairman. I come to my last point for now. It has many consequences, but I shall confine myself to four minutes. We are dealing with a lot of entrepreneurs with supplies. They still have fireworks and flares and what are they doing with them? I was talking about the local bikemaker. If you have €2,000 or €3,000 in supplies, that's a lot of money for such a local bicycle maker. I'd like to know from the Cabinet how we handle this. How do we ensure that they can safely clean up their stocks? How do we ensure that we can also meet them financially? I know the Cabinet said before the weekend that this is an entrepreneurial risk. I'm asking the Cabinet to really take another look at that. We're talking about SMEs who didn't see this blow coming. I'd like to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u73	It was almost said between the nose and the lips, so I just want to make sure I got it right. Does the VVD actually say that if things go wrong next year or next year, this cannot mean that more fireworks are banned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u75	In fact, an advance is already being made on what will happen next year. This is it. That's all it's gonna be. It's not gonna change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u76	As far as the VVD is concerned, we shouldn't be naive. I'm sure Mr Klaver didn't intend to. We shouldn't be naive with each other. We know that the turn of the year will not suddenly go smoothly. We are now introducing a measure. We want a partial ban. In addition, you do all kinds of extra matters in terms of enforcement. You have to look at it for a number of years to know how to shape it. I sincerely believe that we are heading towards all the millions of Dutch people who would like to shoot off fireworks and cannot make all those entrepreneurs to say: it could be that within a few months we will be throwing everything over again. We now say, together with the cabinet, that decorative fireworks remain. You should also give it time to see what effect this measure has and what else you can do to achieve the effect you wanted to achieve with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u77	I think we should do the most honest thing we can. I cannot say that more fireworks will be banned in the new year. But you can't say we're definitely not gonna ban more fireworks. I am very afraid that the signal that the VVD is sending to the Dutch and all those entrepreneurs is really a wrong signal. It may well be that next year more fireworks will be banned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u78	Well, then who's gonna come up with that at the time depends. I tell you that the VVD will not come up with that proposal. We've all read the reports. The turn of the year is used by all kinds of people to do a lot of trouble. At the same time, it is not just a problem of the turn of the year. We see all year round that our agents and aid workers are being attacked. We see a lot of problems all year round. What I'm saying here is that it's also about mentality. Several colleagues have said that. It's also about how you treat each other. You really should bet on that. It's naive to think you've solved the problem of banning decorative fireworks. I do not think we should be naive on both sides. We are now taking a step forward, and we must now ensure that this is done with each other. In doing so, we must make a firm commitment to enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u79	During my speech Mr Yeşilgöz interrupted the situation within my group. Of course, I'll put that back. Mrs Yeşilgöz will understand that. I refer to her colleague, Mrs Ziesgs, who even literally said that she said a little bit in her contribution that 'the potjandrie should not mean that we burden entrepreneurs with the damage, because then the government is untrustworthy'. But Prime Minister Rutte said it's an entrepreneurial risk. It's a bit of a like-dan question, but I want to ask him anyway. If the Minister is not going to say that it is not an entrepreneurial risk, if there is not going to be compensation, will there be a motion from the VVD in the second term that entrepreneurs will be compensated? I wouldn't be unsympathetic to such a motion, I'll give you that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mrs Helder is absolutely right: my colleague Mrs Ziesgs has said this literally and I myself said it in the media today. We believe that entrepreneurs should be compensated, at least for the residual stocks they are now faced with. The decision was taken a few days ago and there is not really a transitional period; it is already in place at the next turn of the year. I think we share the need to make sure that our agents are safe and that it starts quickly. But then we have to look at what this means to the entrepreneurs. I imagine the story of every entrepreneur is different. It's about things like what's left of the rest of the stock and how much someone had bought in. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet to take another look at that. How can we ensure that the bicycle maker on the corner of the street does not fall because we are deciding something here? This doesn't change the fact that I do agree with the decision we're making. So that motion could be just like that, but I hope the Cabinet embraces our distress call, which I'm probably sharing with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u81	Well, it was not an emergency call from my group, it is an emergency call from Mr Yeşilgöz's group. And that answer could be much shorter, because it was simply a yes or a no: is there going to be a motion? The local bicycle dealership and everything, that's all nice, but it's about entrepreneurs who already have a stock. There is not a bit of a transition at all, there is no transition at all. Your group and the CDA group were not in favour of a partial ban until a few weeks ago. I do now. There's zero transition. Will the VVD compensate her supporters, the entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u82	We are incredibly clear; we believe that these entrepreneurs should be compensated. We ask, as is customary here in the first term, a question to the cabinet: do you want to look at it again? If the cabinet says "that is not up to us, we do not agree with it," then we disagree. I'm not in the cabinet. Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u83	I hear "not yet."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u84	Well, Mr. Chairman, I take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u85	No, I'm not. No, it's fine. Mr Wassenberg is interrupting. It's gonna be your last question, you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u86	I knew that, Mr. Chairman. I counted and this is question number six. I hear Mrs Yeşilgöz say that, as far as she is concerned, there will be a ban on fireworks and rockets, but that decorative fireworks will not be banned in the coming years either. Mrs Yeşilgöz was also at the hearing yesterday and Mrs Yeşilgöz also saw the horrific pictures of those faces mutilated by decorative fireworks. It has also heard that 57% of the eye injury and 55% of the overall damage is caused by decorative fireworks. The VVD can't be blind to the dangers of that decorative fireworks, can it? Is the VVD only the party for the entrepreneurs or is the VVD also a party for lung patients and is the VVD also the party for the victims of that fireworks? Why doesn't the VVD just say: it's a big problem, we're going to ban decorative fireworks, because we're standing up for lung patients and we're standing up for those other victims of fireworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u87	We're trying to find a balance here. A balance where we stand up for the safety of our agents and aid workers. A balance in which we stand up for the freedom of those millions of Dutch people who say they want to be able to fire fireworks every year. We stand up for the freedom of entrepreneurs who say they want to know where they stand, so that they can undertake and do their thing. That's the balance we have with each other. Mr. Wassenberg is absolutely right; we were all there yesterday and it's terrible pictures, let alone it happens to you. It's horrible. But at the same time we have to conclude that there are also millions of people who have experienced it safely and who enjoy it very much. I told you earlier that when I was a little girl, we were gonna light fireworks every year. Fortunately I have never experienced such bad things, and I don't think many Dutch people. It is therefore also about the millions of people who say: give me my freedom and preserve the decorative fireworks so that I can enjoy it. I fully agree with Mr Wassenberg when he says that we need to make a strong commitment to information and to ensure that people know how to deal with it. If he said that, we'll find each other there. He's shaking from no now, but I'd hope he says that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u88	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to take you to the municipality of Zaltbommel in Gelderland. At the turn of the year 2018-2019 things went well there. The misery started a week before New Year's Eve: fireworks bombs, destruction and car fires. The headlines spoke of a war zone. That's not nothing. This turn of the year was not a party for many people either. There were more incidents. There were more fireworks victims. There was more violence against aid workers. In some places they were even crowned with fireworks. People have died. Eight out of ten injuries were caused by legal fireworks, half of which were slightly more than half by decorative fireworks and the other half by fireworks. This has to be different. The Christian Union therefore considers it a good step that the cabinet has chosen to ban the fireworks and the flares. After all the advice from the OVV, doctors, mayors, environmental organisations, municipalities and police, I think this was also inevitable. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, it would have been more appropriate, but we embrace this step of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Is this enough? Is this future-proof? Or are we having another debate next year or the following year and the following year because it turned out not to be enough? The Safety Research Council advised a few years ago to gain more insight into the relationship between the type of fireworks and the extent and nature of the injury and to take additional measures if necessary and perhaps to ban other types of fireworks. I would like to know to what extent the cabinet has implemented that recommendation. We are pleased that the cabinet is now going to investigate this, but what has happened to it in recent years? Mr. Chairman. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we will go one step further and work towards a year-end where we can preserve the fireworks tradition in community form and which is also a celebration for aid workers, enforcers and bystanders. This means, in concrete terms, that we propose that the marking of consumer fireworks should be reserved for organised people and that a ban on the sale and removal of consumer fireworks should be imposed. By means of an exemption or a permit you get access to the purchase of fireworks. You can set conditions for the supervision, the people who can set it off, the time and the place, the safety regulations. Is the Cabinet willing to look into this? In the letter, the cabinet briefly addressed this, but is the cabinet really prepared to proceed with this option? Does it see a key for that in the future? That leaves open the possibility for a municipality like Amsterdam to say: we can't do it here, we don't want it here, and here remains a local ban on fireworks. We have argued with D66 before to include that possibility in the law. It also offers the possibility for municipalities in a number of villages to take the lead, for example the football association or the district association, by setting off the fireworks at eight hours for the little ones and around midnight for the rest of the village. This is how the Christian Union sees the turn of the year. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I would also ask the cabinet whether it is prepared, with the VNG and the Dutch Society of Mayors, to make a hand-off to municipalities with opportunities to give this a place already under the current circumstances and with the current legislation. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions I'd like to ask. There are now a number of municipalities that indicate that they want to work with a total ban. They indicate that this will be difficult if there is no national ban on exit and sales. What is the reaction of the cabinet to that? I often get concerns from residents of the border regions about the sale of fireworks coming from Belgium and Germany. The police indicate that enforcement will be helped if there is a registration requirement for the purchase of fireworks. Does the Cabinet want to work on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u90	I want to understand what the Christian Union is proposing. I still feel like I'm sitting here watching an Echternachse weihnacht procession. Last year, the Christian Union, I thought with D66, proposed to offer municipalities the opportunity to become completely fireworks-free. Apeldoorn and Rotterdam are examples of this. Now the Christian Union says: you must also be able to give the football association some kind of license. In Apeldoorn they had a very intense discussion with each other and now the Christian Union is introducing a next round that actually offers room for discussion. I've lost it for a while. Perhaps you could explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u91	I can certainly explain that. A local ban on fireworks is a very good step. Apeldoorn and Rotterdam say: we will take care of that. We have made that possible, and that is very important. Let's take a look at the last year's change. The cabinet proposes to ban only fireworks and flares, but we see that injuries are also caused by decorative fireworks. We must not close our eyes to what is actually happening. We must also be prepared to look at further steps, and that is us. The Christian Union is in favour of looking at a national ban on selling and cutting off all consumer fireworks, including decorative fireworks. But we have an eye for the tradition and the need people have to put off fireworks. We want it no longer possible for everyone to buy fireworks from the trade. It shouldn't be possible to shoot it anywhere in the street. It just happens to a lot of accidents. We only want to make it possible in an organised context: with, for example, the district association, the neighborhood association, the football association. I grew up in the east of the country myself, and I live in the north now. That's where we know the carbid tradition. That's what I'm imagining. There's surveillance. This tradition has also changed a bit over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u92	Thank you for explaining to Mrs Van der Graaf what I already understood. My point is that this way it's starting to look a little like neon advertising that jumps on and off and goes all over the place. I'm having a little trouble with that. Last year, you said, "We're making Apeldoorn fireworks-free." Now you will again introduce fireworks at the football association and the Boy Scout Club. I can't quite clear that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u93	I would like the new year to be a celebration for everyone and initiatives from the community. If the community says "we don't want to do this, we can't do this in terms of enforcement or security," then it should have the opportunity to say: we don't do that here. This happens, for example, in the municipality of Amsterdam. This opportunity has now been given to the community, also thanks to our commitment. But I also have an eye for the municipalities that look at it differently and in this way perhaps manage to give the fireworks tradition a place in a safe way. I see it in the villages around me, for example in the municipality of Ten Boer next to the city of Groningen. I see it in Brabant villages. Yesterday, Mayor Spies mentioned the village of Nieuwveen. That's where it happens. It's consistent with a movement I'm already seeing. Maybe this is the key to the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr President, may I say one final thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u96	Yes, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u97	I'm not giving you that kind of trouble today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u98	No, you're not bothering me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u99	Oh, I remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u100	At least not today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u101	That's what I said. What I want to be careful about, and that is exactly what the industry criticises us as politics, is each time a little bit this and a little bit that and a little bit forward and a little bit backwards. I think we should make policies that are clear, that are consistent and that are a little in line with each other. I have reservations about this proposal; that will be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u103	All I'm saying is that I don't share that hesitation. We offer another option, and I think that's a nice option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Traditions. What do you think about the word "change of year"? Is that still the cozy celebration of lighting fireworks with kids and family? Snap an oil ball? The figures really show something else: 1,810 times there was a fire or explosion, 1,367 times there was an abuse or a threat. Case damage and there were 3.375 fireworks incidents. That's almost 10,000 incidents. The current regulation at the turn of the year results in a mix of human injury, attacks on our emergency services and overcrowded emergency rooms in hospitals. The Netherlands turns into a kind of Raqqa on the Rhine during the turn of the year. It is then a kind of war zone, as my colleague said before about Zaltbommel, with destruction and injury and with cross-standard and anti-integrative behaviour. These behaviors would not be out of place in an unfree country. Mr. Chairman. It's an annual disaster. Scum throws fireworks bombs at cops in Duindorp and elderly people get hit when they make comments about the nuisance. This year there was the tragic death of a father and a son, indirectly. Animals live in fear of death. 500 people went to the emergency room and 200 pairs of eyes were damaged. 15 million euros of Community money went to destruction. We prey on our agents to keep society safe. So what do we do with the New Year's Eve? We make tens of thousands of hours of valuable emergency service capacity in one day. It's crazy. The new year's not a party anymore. It is a social tragedy that is facilitated by us. The size is therefore full. This can't go on any longer. Mr. Chairman. It's time for a total ban on fireworks. That's what the people in the country think. A poll shows that 62% of voters are in favour of a total ban. The majority of the supporters of the VVD and the CDA are also in favour of a total ban. But we haven't seen Rutte III listen to much of the citizens. The cabinet seems to want to stick to certain types of decorative fireworks from a kind of strange mix of conservative, conservative, traditional, cultural and electoral views. According to the cabinet, the F1 fireworks and a large part of the F2 fireworks must be preserved. But decorative fireworks aren't as innocent as they seem. Research by Safe Netherlands shows that cake boxes, ornamental pots and fountains account for 23% of the injury. Ordnance causes 55% of the injury, especially eye injury and burns. Mr. Chairman. Experts, the security regions, the chiefs of police, but also the municipalities are calling for a total ban. Maintainability is an important argument. It is clearer and more sensible to set a clear standard. Municipalities, such as the municipality of Rotterdam, are already imposing a total ban. There will then be a patchwork of different regulations. Regulations may vary from municipality to municipality. This, in turn, is not good for legal certainty and the clarity of legal standards. Mr. Chairman. In short, we're doing everyone a favor by going straight to a total ban. It's better to rip off that nasty patch at once, than to introduce a little ban in slow motion. That's a weird form of self-tasting. Hence the appeal of the group of DENK to stop organizing this misery and to get on with it, in the interests of the fireworks victims, the agents, the doctors, the firefighters and the environment. Let's cut this shit out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u107	Madam President. "It ended at the turn of the year in the night from 1760 to 1761. The habit had arisen of shooting wildly at 0am clock stroke. It was a life or the world perished," the historians wrote. The shooting was strictly forbidden after that night. There was one small problem: enforcement was inadequate. The city historian of Amsterdam wrote a few years later: "Neither in my youth did the Kalverstraat drown on its foundations when the old was shot in the new and every housemother made sure to have scared powders in the house." Mr. Chairman. Stricter rules in response to heavy nuisance. It's not a new phenomenon. We're watching it happen again now. Let me say right away that we think that is right. The anniversary of 2019 was referred to as "grimmig" by a policeman at the hearing yesterday. An ophthalmologist spoke of a "horror night." A pulmonary doctor talked about people who were longing for fresh air and had to flee to the Wadden Islands. And again, there's more damage and more violence against cops and firefighters. It's possible, and it's got to be different. The SGP has long advocated stepping away from buying and cutting off consumer fireworks. As far as we're concerned, only fireworks shows are left. We are not there yet, but I am glad that the cabinet has decided to take a new step soon after the previous debate with a ban on fireworks and flares. To all people, including entrepreneurs, who say that this is now a bit of a thunderbolt, I say: well, that's not quite true; a motion by Mr Bishop was already adopted in November which calls on the cabinet to continue to curb flares and blowfires. That motion received a majority,77 Chamber seats. Police, municipalities and a growing group of mayors also call for a ban on loose ornamental fireworks, because it is better to maintain and because flying ornamentals also cause problems. My question is, does the cabinet pick up that glove? As far as the SGP is concerned, yes. Mr. Chairman. As in the eighteenth century, it is not enough to set strict rules. It's about enforcement. A large number of colleagues have rightly already put their finger on this. My pressing question is also: is there enough human power available now? If it can not only be brought about by the police in this complicated enforcement task, will there be good cooperation with the boas, the extraordinary investigators? Can volunteers be used more? A second question in the context of enforcement is whether the powers are sufficient. Could preemptive search be helpful here? Mr Van Dam advocated this first. Others have joined in. You must have people who can apply it, but the SGP also considers this to be an important competence. Mr. Chairman. Burning off fireworks throws a lot of soot in the food, and the way it's happening now spoils the turn of the year. Vandalism and violence against cops and firefighters must be punished firmly and quickly. Here we can make further progress in the swift trial and use the possibilities for compensation, but I would also like to point out the alcohol abuse. Because we know that a lot of violence goes on under the influence of alcohol. With all the appeal that is made again to the reasonableness, to make it a nice party, I think: yes, if people start to fill up, then that part of the brain that is good in thinking is quite eliminated. So that doesn't help us much. What are the measures that are being used to prevent excessive drinking? Finally. I started with that reference to the eighteenth century. I didn't do that to say, "You see, let's just ignore it shoulder-picking; it's always been there." No, that history shows that with a tremendous effort, you can certainly make a change. For, to conclude, in 1871, the historians could report: "From the present time nothing but praise. By united cooperation between police, teachers and church leaders, the lust for ecstasy was reduced as much as civilization increased." So it requires some effort, but with a common effort of politics and society, the tide can be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u108	A while back, last year, we talked about this at an AO. At that time, and now of course, I was impressed by Mr Van der Staaij's contribution. Apparently, we're no longer able to make a party out of it in a normal way. I had been a little looking forward to his input now, to hear if he had any more ideas on that, even in view of my call for a civilisation offensive. So I should like to ask Mr Van der Staaij: do you still think we should make more of it, and do you have any concrete images?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u109	Concrete footage of parties? There are a lot of rituals and traditions around the turn of the year. There are many beautiful examples, of people who come together with family and friends and who go to other cities. We ourselves have the habit of having a divine service around old and new. I think that's a very nice ritual, too. But it really has to come from society itself. I don't think we can come up with the rules of thumb for a good party here. But I do support the point that of course there can also be a bit of a grumpy atmosphere when you say: oil balls are unhealthy, because they are too fat, fireworks are dangerous and drinks are not good because that is too much. Then it just ends up in a bit of a negative atmosphere. So I totally agree that we also need to think about how we can give it a nice interpretation. But that is above all a task for society itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u110	Your last question, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u111	Yes, I realize that, Mr. Chairman. I do agree with you that it has to come from society. And I am also the last person to say: the government must organise divine services on New Year's Eve, so to speak. But do you not agree with me that this movement can be set in motion from the government, that the government, the government, but also municipalities, could give that to Schwung? Do you see any possibilities for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u112	Yes, but actually you can see that municipal authorities do happen, that they say: if we see here that many people organize a bit of nuisance on the street, we can also ask ourselves if there are other possibilities to give it a nice interpretation. If you look primarily at families, it's beautiful, but if you can't do it in there, you have to deal with young people who hang out on the streets. So you have to do something with that. That is the kind of local debate I see, and I think it is understandable and right; it is part of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if you've noticed, but I've never seen as much fireworks as last year at the turn of the year. It seemed like people felt it coming, that maybe it was the last time. It was hanging in the air a little bit. I also noticed that before the turn of the year the subject was extremely controversial, and that after the turn of the year a common idea emerged quite quickly. That was outside the Chamber, but that was also in the Chamber. A number of people here are extremely pleased with a ban on fireworks and the fact that this tradition is coming to an end. I'm not one of them. I think it's a shame. I am very sorry that we have to give in to assholes, to people who can't behave, to sniff out, to drunken types who threaten our agents, firemen and aid workers with fireworks, to assholes on mopeds throwing fireworks between neighborhood residents for this kind of dangerous, violent, miserable behavior. However, I do agree that we should ban this type of fireworks: consumer fireworks, heavy fireworks, single shots, fireworks and flares. I agree with the ministers. Whatever I want to ask is what we can do. What can be done? I also agree with the cabinet's intention to see what can be done. Yeah, we got kids' fireworks. We've got stars, peacocks. What else can we do? Ornamental fireworks, fountains, ornamental pots, ground flowers: can you do that? Cops also say anything you can throw with is dangerous. Cops also say, even yesterday during the hearing: solid fireworks are actually the only thing left, because before you throw them at cops, firefighters, paramedics or neighborhoodmates... What is the view of the Ministers on this? What else can we do? I'd like to think about that. If we ban the fireworks, that bastard isn't over. There might even be more illegal fireworks. That's even more dangerous. 'Cause assholes are gonna be assholes for now. I can see that the Public Prosecutor's Office wants to find out more, but I also read in the Minister's letter that this is being stepped up as we see fit. Well, that power is very low. There are big deficits. We also need to maintain it. That's very important to deal with this asshole: maintain. The chance of getting caught must be increased. But then I read in the letter that this will happen within the existing police capacity. No, it's not. It can't be. With the existing police capacity, you can't put any more effort into the detection and handling of assholes and the handling of illegal fireworks. The grids can't be filled already. We're already asking the cops about it right now. In the few seconds I have left, I want to talk about another form of assholeness: the one from the towers. I am referring to the fact that plans are not sent to the Chamber, but to the newspaper, to the media. That too is a form of assholeness. I asked the Minister to apologize. He refused. The cabinet would like a control-free period. The point is that, as a Member of Parliament, I am being questioned by journalists and by people on the streets about government plans, when I do not know them. Then I cannot do my parliamentary work, my controlling work. The minister says, no, I'm not going to apologize for that, because maybe I wasn't the one who leaked. Who? Is the Minister prepared to investigate that? Is the Minister prepared to have the leaks found out where they came from? I'm asking the ministers to bring up a little decency, just to apologize if you shuffle the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u115	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I start where Mr Van Raak just ended up, but not before I thank you, Mr President, for your solid letter to the Prime Minister on the provision of information on this dossier. It is painful to see that the press was again informed before the Chamber. We have already discussed this a number of times in this debate. Prime Minister Rutte said ministers didn't want to listen to him, but I don't recognize that in the words of the Minister of Justice and Security. Can I therefore ask the Ministers to respond to the Prime Minister's statement? Because we have understood that we can forget a sincere apology. In June 2018, 50PLUS, together with the Animal Party and the SGP, tabled a motion to work towards a ban on fireworks for individuals. The motion was deliberately formulated very carefully: working towards it. That is exactly what is happening now with a partial ban. But then it went too far. The VVD, the CDA, D66, SP, the Christian Union, the Labour Party and the PVV voted against. I am glad to see that there are more and more parties that are getting a little convinced. What a pity that motion was then dissuaded and rejected. We've been two years. It was two year shifts full of wounded and full of violence against police, aid workers and passers-by. 2,600 people were treated at the hospital or at general practitioners. 75% of the injuries were caused by legal fireworks. There are very young victims among them. Moreover, there is permanent injury, such as amputations, broken eyes and much more. 50PLUS stresses that the cabinet and the coalition acted unthinkingly and the insecurity and all these sad injuries increased. There has been a failure to act where this was urgently needed and, unfortunately, is still necessary. Fortunately, then, these ministers took a small step. But if all people, the birds and our pets want to get through the new year safely, then much more is really needed. The question arises as to what the next turn of the year will look like after this intermediate step. Can the Minister give us a picture of that? I'm sure the people at home will be very curious about that. Why not get a real solution right away? Listen again to the wonderful contribution of colleague Jesse Klaver. We have already explained the 50PLUS vision on a festive year-end several times. We are in favour of a municipal fireworks show with a cozy together. We talked about it in November. There are not enough professional fireworks lighters, which can perform a fireworks show in a responsible way. We are therefore once again proposing that the Minister encourage the re-training of the current fireworks vendors with the industry. This is also a form of compensation for their loss of income. I'd like a response. The Party for Animals and GroenLinks proposed a total ban, with the exception of children's fireworks. My group is in favour of this. Enforcement will in any case be possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u117	Thank you, Mr. Krol. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Ministers need a suspension of about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u118	I'll give the Minister for Environment and Living the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many thanks to Members for their input. I will answer some general questions and questions about the ban that we are now proposing. I will say something about the municipalities, about injury and about Europe/international and about compensation. Mr Grapperhaus will address the issue raised by Mr Van Raak at the beginning of the debate, all questions relating to enforcement and the other questions. Mr. Chairman. The members noted it and the cabinet noted it: the year did not begin as we would have liked. The celebration of the anniversary has once again been accompanied by many incidents and injuries. That current trend is unacceptable. The cabinet has always said it wants to see a downward line. We didn't find it. A number of Members of Parliament have rightly stressed that this has to do not only with fireworks, but also with alcohol, with drugs, with group pressure. But the sum of this is that the standards of what is socially acceptable have been exceeded. The cabinet has therefore taken additional measures. The cabinet has concluded that a ban on fireworks and flares, as previously advised by the OVV, is necessary to reduce injury and prevent the use of fireworks against aid workers. In addition, the OVV has recommended an in-depth investigation into the relationship between injury and products. That's what we're gonna do. Mr. Chairman. This decision does not solve everything, but it takes an important step. The cabinet continues its efforts to further improve security. In addition, the cabinet expects the industry itself to take responsibility for safe use, product safety and so on. Many argue in favour of continuing the ban on consumer fireworks. The cabinet believes that this unjustly also affects the many Dutch who want to celebrate the turn of the year without causing damage and nuisance. By the way, the decisions of the cabinet before the turn of the year do mean that more is forbidden than what the OVV has advised, because earlier it was already decided to ban single shots and the F3 fireworks. This means that the cabinet already goes a little further than the bald advice of the OVV. In addition, the Cabinet considers it important that there are sufficient opportunities at local level to move forward, such as a local ban on cutting off and organising events, or to implement the change of year in a different way. Those possibilities are there. The examples are there and I am confident that the municipalities will also take advantage of these opportunities to ensure that the turn of the year runs smoothly. The cabinet also believes that these alternative ways of celebrating the turn of the year should be given a fair opportunity at local level to develop. Mr. Krol asked what the turn of the year would look like in the cabinet's vision. Actually, in short, festive and safe. I was looking for Mr. Krol: exactly! We're gonna give everyone a happy new year. It won't look the same to everyone. And you don't have to; that space is also important. But of course it must also mean less injury and less nuisance, and in particular a safer working environment for our emergency services. To achieve this, the cabinet is now taking another important step. And we also realise that this will not guarantee that all the problems will be solved, but we do think that this is a very important step. What can there be in terms of fireworks, so early Mr Van Raak. In addition to the fireworks and flares, there is also the previous ban on single shots and F3 fireworks, the remaining category that was in it. Then there is the F1 fireworks that may, as you yourself have noticed, be discarded throughout the year.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's a list of them, and of course we can make sure we spread that list. Mr Krol and Mr Van der Staaij also asked about the further ban. Is the cabinet looking any further? What we have always done, at every turn of the year, is to evaluate well, to see what the effects are, and, as previously announced, we are also doing that research into the further relationship with injury. In line with the recommendations of the OVV report, we are going to carry out in-depth research into injuries caused by the different categories of fireworks, and sometimes also within categories, because within a category like cakeboxes there are also big differences. In this way, we want to gain a better understanding of the products and take appropriate measures if necessary. We will present these results to you together with the evaluation of the next year. That is actually the answer to Mr Wassenberg's question and Mrs Kikken's question, in order to examine further categories. We'll continue to monitor that, of course. When's this investigation due? That was also Mrs Den Boer's question. We will send this to your Chamber together with the evaluation of the next year's change. Mrs Van der Graaf asked to what extent the cabinet gave additional recommendations from the OVV, i.e. the other measures. One of the recommendations is the provision of free fireworks glasses and wicks. That has been mandatory since the last turn of the year. And the following about the ban on heavy-duty professional fireworks for which there is no market. Research has been carried out at the request of the Netherlands, and action is now being taken, including at EU level. I will come back to that later on at international level. Then Mrs Kuik asked about the stability of fireworks, because even when we are talking about the legal fireworks, the quality must of course be in order. The ILT also tests for this every year, but its stability is also one of the product requirements. The ILT test whether an item remains upright up to and including the last effect, and decorative fireworks must meet general product requirements for safety. The fireworks sold on the ground must therefore be stable and the manufacturer or importer must ensure that the fireworks sold meet the requirements and are safe and stable. There has also recently been a court case, which has shown that the producer is liable for damage if his fireworks are not working properly. In addition, we have already been promised that we will continue to look at the categories and this ratio. Mr Van Dam actually asked a moral question: is category F1 fireworks pedagogical? If you're not actually teaching them something you wouldn't want later, I'm actually interpreting Mr Van Dam's question. This category F1 fireworks is European protected for the free movement of goods, and therefore may also be disposed of at any time of the year. European agreements and rules have been drawn up on this subject, taking into account safety when something falls into that category. But of course there is also a role for parents here. And I think that might also be part of what Mr Van Dam is looking for: the social debate about how we handle fireworks safely. Of course, when it comes to the behaviour of their children, parents also have an important role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u120	My first question is whether this research should necessarily come with the evaluation of the turn of the year; can it not just be a separate project? That's one. Secondly, I had another question about the stability of that decorative fireworks. That was in particular a specific call from the police. My question is: is it included in that in-depth research into whether increasing stability can also be a factor in the assessment of especially F2 fireworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u121	On the second question, I can answer yes anyway. We're definitely looking at that. It is also good to look again at the factors that cause stability or that ultimately cause the risks. There are sometimes talk of certain quantities of gunpowder and whether you have to judge it: you have to do this and you shouldn't want this anymore. But if you put a pound of powder together in a very small tube, that's a bit different than if you spread a pound of powder over a much more stable, larger plane. Indeed, these kinds of in-depth questions are absolutely asked. I'm sorry, Mrs. Kicken's first question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u122	The cabinet explicitly chooses to investigate only...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u123	Oh, yeah, that's why I wrote it down: stand-alone. Now I remember. It seems important to me that we do that, because if you put a theoretical relationship for a certain category, but you don't know if it's being used a lot, it's important to see how the purchase of that fireworks goes in the coming period and what it ultimately means effectively. In order to know what it means effectively, this consistency with the review of the new year is therefore important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u124	I asked about the implementation of the recommendations of the OVV, which were already made in 2017. I am particularly concerned with the second recommendation: make sure that there is more insight into the effects of certain types of fireworks on certain injuries. The analysis of this year's injury shows that more than half is caused by decorative fireworks. Among other things, cake boxes are a large part of it. Does not this year's analysis give cause for thought: perhaps we should take further steps than the cabinet has done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u125	The figures mentioned by Mrs Van der Graaf show that we have also started working on these recommendations. We've already tried to get a closer look at that. Of course, a percentage of an sich doesn't say that much. If there will be no more flares and fireworks, you will see that perhaps 100% of the injury that still exists is caused by or illegal fireworks or ornamental fireworks. It is, of course, a question of a downward trend in absolute figures. We've seen that it wasn't deployed. That was reason to take extra steps. The more you forbid, the more you can prevent. That is always true, of course, but in the balance sheet in ensuring a safe and pleasant year-end we wanted to follow the report of the OVV. In addition, those single shots, which can also be fired remotely, are a real problem. Emergency services have also identified them as a problem for their safe operation on New Year's Eve. That's why we've already added it, just like the F3 fireworks. So the cabinet goes a little further. For cake boxes there is a review, within that category, whether we can have further images. You can say that those cake boxes were a kind of alternative to flares, because they give the same beautiful effects in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u126	I understand, therefore, that from this year onwards, the cabinet will really give more details of these recommendations made by the OVV, without excluding the cabinet from taking further measures which may also lead to a ban on certain categories of ornamental fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u127	We have already implemented the provisions of the OVV, but we will continue to do so. We're gonna keep working on it. So it's not either-or, it's and-and. We have always said that we have also written that in the letter, that we will continue to do research. We always want to take steps towards a safer year. If there is more to it, we will certainly come back to your room. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam asked about carbidshooting. I have a legal-technical response to that, but also a political one. Legally-technically carbid is not covered by the fireworks rules, so it is not affected by what we do here. In addition, carbidshooting is also allowed in some municipalities at the turn of the year, under the conditions of the APV. That's what's gonna happen. Then Mrs Den Boer asked whether it would be possible to bring the list of allowed fireworks to the attention of the public. Yeah, that's what I just gave you. I can publish the list. The description is sometimes slightly different from the name the fireworks salesman gives it, but at least you have the overview. I've just touched the municipal ban. Mrs Kuik said: fighting the nuisance works well; how does the cabinet feel about it? She gave the example of Leiden. I think it shows that the possibility of a municipal ban is practical and can also have very good results. The cabinet agrees that municipalities make their own choice about a good interpretation of the turn of the year. The extent, size and shape of the nuisance vary from one municipality to another. A municipal ban is therefore an option. A ban on part of the territory is still possible. That was actually the answer to Mrs Van der Graaf's question: is it difficult if there is no national total ban? No, because municipalities are now showing that it works. They are not hindered by the fact that there is no total ban. Then there is the proposal to put off consumer fireworks only in an organised context. What's that gonna do? It is possible for associations to organize small fireworks shows. That is what Mrs Van der Graaf referred to among other things. That's possible. However, it should only be under the responsibility of a professional fireworks operator. Depending on the size of the event, a notification or permit must be requested from the provinces. This is now dealt with in the Fireworks Order. Such a professional fireworks worker often works together with employees to manage the events. So that's also an opportunity, to work with fireworks lovers, but then someone always has to supervise. Non-professionals are not allowed to perform such a fireworks event on their own because of safety, but if there is someone with a qualification, that is indeed possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u128	I do have a question about that, however, in order to understand what the Minister means. Is this only about the use of professional fireworks, category F4 fireworks, or is it also about the use of other types of fireworks? And this professional fireworks worker, what exactly is he supposed to be involved in? Does that have to do with the size of the event? How could you make our idea possible if you no longer want to allow it for everyone, but only do it in an organized context? They are therefore smaller organised associations, such as a football association or a district association, which wants to set something up. I think people at a fireworks show have the image that it's big, but something smaller than a big fireworks show, how can you make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u129	It is indeed possible to organize small fireworks shows. For example, a football association can do that. That doesn't necessarily have to be a huge, large-scale, professional fireworks. Even if there is a certain amount of other fireworks, guidance is required from someone who really knows how to make a beautiful show of it and does so safely. So there is that possibility. In one of the forthcoming letters, we could possibly explain how the regulation is structured in this respect, so that everyone can and cannot be clear about what can and cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr. Krol asked: Can the Minister encourage fireworks salesmen to be retrained? There is still a need for fireworks vendors, because there is still fireworks that can be sold. Certain species may no longer be sold, but others may. So I don't know if they have time right away during that period. That's part of the answer. The industry can also ensure that there are enough people qualified to organise professional fireworks shows. There is a training for it, so if the industry thinks that there is reason to retrain, there is that possibility. Mr Wassenberg asked for injury. He said most of the victims fall through decorative fireworks. In part, I gave the answer earlier. If you ban certain types of fireworks, you'll see that the percentage of victims in the other kind of fireworks increases. The point is that the numbers are decreasing in absolute terms. That's what the Cabinet is aiming for. In addition, we ensure, as promised, that we get a better understanding of the relationships between type and injury.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u132	If you first had 57% versus 43% and that 43% goes away, I understand that in relative terms you get an increase to 100%. I mean the displacement effect. People who used to buy fireworks or flares will probably not hold the money in their pockets right now. They're gonna buy decorative fireworks for that. Of course, it's too easy to say: if fireworks fail, then the relative number, the percentage, of course goes up. But that also happens in absolute terms. And that's my fear. That is also the fear of the Long Fund and of the ophthalmologists. They say, "You're gonna have a displacement effect." People are going to buy more decorative fireworks and that will result in more serious injuries. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr Wassenberg and I agree that if you stop selling certain species, you will also get a different distribution of the victims. Therefore, the purpose of the cabinet is not to achieve a certain percentage, but to see that declining trend. Therefore, in accordance with the advice of the OVV, we look at the types of fireworks that the OVV has said: both for a safe year change and for the aid workers as well as for the injury, we advise to remove these species. We are. There we add the remaining F3, so the heavy fireworks that were still available in the Netherlands. We'll add the single shots to that. And in addition, we will continue to investigate further the refinement of the understanding of what is causing injury, so that we can involve this in our desire to keep coming to a safer year-end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u134	But it has been said before in the debate: it has been known for a long time that decorative fireworks cause a large proportion of the injuries and the serious injuries. So why hasn't the cabinet pre-sorted on at least part of that decorative fireworks before? Once again, the flares and the fireworks are gonna go out, that's fine. The Party for Animals agrees. But a very large part you have just left behind two and a half years, since the end of 2017. Why is it that the cabinet is not going to say very quickly: we do know what the dangerous boys are in that decorative fireworks; we are going to get them out of there right away, and we are going to have the rest investigated? There's a lot already known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u135	Fire arrows are also covered by decorative fireworks. We're gonna get that part out now. In addition, we continue to look at what causes a certain fireworks of injury. We hope to achieve this downward trend by combining all the measures we take. I think that Mr Wassenberg and I at least agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u137	What are the steps taken internationally? The removal of the last remaining F3 is also a way to ensure that it fits what was already banned in Belgium, for example. The fireworks were still allowed in the Netherlands. That is what we, as a cabinet, are now getting out of it in order to achieve a more consistent range of fireworks with the countries around us. This also helps to combat illegal fireworks, whether from the Netherlands to Belgium or from Belgium to the Netherlands or Germany. We are also committed to this safe, festive year-end in an international context. Within the European Commission, I continue to focus on European regulation and on improving the enforcement system. For example, within the Benelux, we almost have an agreement on the pyropas. This pass is intended for professional fireworks lighters, where they are given an additional means of identification as a professional in order to distinguish themselves from consumers. So you avoid that professional fireworks fall too easily into the hands of people who shouldn't. The European Commission is also very enthusiastic about the pyropas. It is an elaboration of the recommendations contained in the report on the illicit trade in heavy professional fireworks. Furthermore, increasing product safety is part of the cabinet commitment in Brussels, as well as combating plastic in fireworks. I say that to Mr Klaver, because this is done on the basis of the Green Left motion. That is what we are committed to in Brussels. Mrs Den Boer asked whether it was an option to involve European regulation in tackling the fireworks issue. There is free movement of trade in Europe. There is certainly attention to increasing product safety of consumer fireworks. National restrictions are possible on the sale and use of consumer fireworks in categories F2 and F3. That is what the cabinet is using now. That is why a number of things are being removed from the market. We also advocate, as before, the removal of heavy fireworks such as F4 cobras from European trade. That illegal fireworks is a small proportion of the total amount, but it causes a disproportionate amount of injury. We want to make it even harder to get that. Taking European fireworks off the market is still the subject of consultation within the EU. There was another question in this block about the obligation to register. Are we prepared to work out such a duty? There's actually different layers in there. For companies it is mandatory to report to the ILT what will enter the Netherlands. This is mandatory at company level. Fireworks banned for consumers in the Netherlands are illegal: it cannot be sold and not bought. There's a border check. Of course, registration isn't gonna help. If you're already planning to get something illegally to the Netherlands, you're not going to register for it. In addition, there's the pyropas. What professional users buy is registered through that pass. By doing so, we try to make it less easy to get illegal fireworks through registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you for your answer. At least it is moving in the right direction, but I still see room for further harmonisation. I see that the Netherlands is in a middle position. How far are the ambitions for the future? It's nice to use that pyropas in the Benelux, but what about Germany, where the consumer fireworks are also available in the supermarkets?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u139	We talk to the countries around us as much as possible. Germany has a slightly different system than the Netherlands. That is where the Länder are responsible for fireworks. North Rhine-Westphalia is in any case also connected to the talks we are having in the Benelux. That is a very good step in the right direction. Further scope for harmonisation? Of course, it certainly helps if countries bordering each other have the same rules for fireworks. At European level, we are certainly talking about it. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Yeşilgöz about the financial management of entrepreneurs. I understand the question and I also understand it very well from the VVD side, but the cabinet does not intend to meet fireworks dealers financially. We have been holding the debate together since the outcome of the opinion of the OVV. Additional prohibitions can't really come as a surprise. Before Christmas, motions have been passed calling for further prohibitions. In that context, flares have been mentioned. As an entrepreneur, you have opportunities to mitigate your risk, for example in the contracts you conclude or through agreements on return. The cabinet has always announced in letters: if more is needed, we will come up with more measures. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot give a positive answer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u140	I understand this reaction. There are people in the gallery from the trade. I also feel responsible in this sense, because we have changed our position as politicians, one more, the other less so. Apart from the financial compensation, it'll be quite a job to destroy the fireworks. The government has experience with that, because it also destroys fireworks illegally. Is what the Minister is now saying really a total rejection of consultation with the industry about what is possible, about opportunities for the government to help? Or is that door still open somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mrs Yeşilgöz asked whether entrepreneurs could be compensated. To that I say that the cabinet does not intend to do so. You ask: can the Cabinet give advice if there are questions about destruction, can the Cabinet share knowledge and skills on how to do that? Of course, we are prepared to have such a conversation. I think that as a government, you should always be willing to talk to entrepreneurs. If there are any questions about knowledge and skill, we'd be happy to have a conversation. Destruction is indeed also an option. For that you do not have to go all the way to Poland, as sometimes is the picture. We checked it out. It can also be destroyed at AEB Amsterdam. The cost per tonne is relatively low. Perhaps I can give some further information on this in the second term if Mr Van Dam appreciates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u142	Thank you to Mr Van Dam for this question, which was also in my speech. And what about the supplies that already exist? How can we support and facilitate entrepreneurs, which goes beyond advice? I hear the Minister clearly saying that compensation is not in it. I would like to try again anyway, because we are talking about SMEs and local entrepreneurs, who really do not have a mega business and have to pass on their orders months in advance. The discussion we had about whether or not to ban fireworks and flares was at the end of last year. These comments have been made earlier and the motions referred to are from the end of the year. So I can imagine that there are local entrepreneurs with a residual stock, which we all understand you're hoping to sell next year what you have left. Now we say for good reason that this is no longer allowed. Let us see with you how we can help you; that is the request of the VVD. I'd still like to see if there's any room in the secretary's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u143	I understand Mrs Yeşilgöz's question, but I do not want to create hope either, because we are not helping anyone. The cabinet doesn't intend to. It is precisely because the discussion was going on that I have just indicated that there are possibilities to make agreements on this in the contract. Fortunately, contracts are often designed in such a way that the risk for the rest of the party does not lie with the final seller alone. I would say for sure: try to make the most of it. See if it can be sold to other countries. Very often you see a lot of languages on that fireworks, so there is also a market for other places to reduce the damage. Of course, it's always annoying; let's not say anything about it. Entrepreneurs are responsible for their stocks and purchases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u144	If the government or the cabinet decides to ban something, isn't it the case that we always see how we can phase it out and what transitional arrangements we can offer? Can't we offer this now, because most of us think it should be for the next year, for the safety of our agents and aid workers? We're not gonna phase it so it doesn't stop for another five years. This gives entrepreneurs less flexibility and space to think from the entrepreneurial risk: wait a minute, this has been decided; in three years I have to be prepared for that, so I will take care of it, because that is my own responsibility. We're not offering that space right now. That is why the VVD insists on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u145	But I do not hear Mrs Yeşilgöz suggest that it should not be this year's turn, but only three years from now. That's a conscious choice we make with each other. Once again, the debate on this has been going on for some time. The OVV report's been here a long time. In many ways, the industry also makes proposals, even though not everyone will say 'that's my personal representative', to follow that OVV report in particular. The discussion has already started and entrepreneurs can certainly not have missed the assessment that if something were to happen, it would be related to those products. Then there is also scope for action. It is therefore up to entrepreneurs whether they are dealing with it in this way, yes or no. I'll be at the end of my answer and then the minister will prosecute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u146	Imagine if fireworks wouldn't be allowed right now. Would the Minister agree that we should be able to use it tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u147	That's a like-dan question. It is allowed and, to some extent, it is even European obligation to allow it. If handled safely, it can also be used safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u148	I ask this question in this way because I mentioned it in my contribution. Imagine: we're gonna throw a party and lighting fireworks is part of that. 1,300 people get hurt. 1,300! Would we be organizing that? I think the answer to that is no. The follow-up question I would like to ask is the following. Why don't you come up with a total ban and then take a quiet look at what fireworks we think are safe and responsible and what fireworks aren't and let's allow that first one? Then you're gonna work with a positive list. Why wasn't that methodology chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u149	There is a positive list. We have a list of what's allowed. With this list, the Cabinet believes that, with these adjustments we are proposing, we are taking a very important step towards a safe year-change. Unlike GroenLinks, we also choose to give more space to those who say: we want to handle fireworks in a safe way for a safe year-end. That's why it's really part of that that you're using firelons, you put on glasses and the like. That's all part of doing it in a safe way. We see this as an important step in the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u150	Look, there's no such thing as a risk-free society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u151	Then we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u152	There is no such thing as a risk-free society. If we use traffic, we have a chance of an accident happening. If we're just walking around here, too. There's been times when a lamp fell down here. Yet fireworks are not an essential part of our society. It's something we let in. It's dangerous what we use. With that, I think the question is right how many victims are justified for something unique, which we allow, consciously, which is dangerous. You say you want a falling trend, but 1,300 people, that's way too much! 600 would be way too much, too. Shouldn't we just come to that total ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u153	Then I could also ask Mr Klaver why he proposes a positive list in his legislative proposal rather than a total ban. How much does he think is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u154	Are we going to deal with Mr. Klaver's bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u155	No, I haven't been able to study that yet, but I hear he suggested a positive list himself, so he doesn't even plead for a total ban. Fortunately, he also says that a riskless society does not exist and he says he himself has a positive list. That's why he's taking risks. Mr Klaver himself makes the assessment of where he finds the risks acceptable. The cabinet starts from the current situation and says: we want to step by step to ensure that that downward line is deployed. I also think you can see that the cabinet is serious about the big step it has now shown. We have seen this year that falling line was not continued. Now we're taking a very big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u156	As far as I am concerned, we cannot talk about this proposal enough. For the record, as far as I am concerned, there will be a general ban. Let me be very clear about that. I am not going to make a proposal, because I think there should be a general ban, which would allow us to see if there is any fireworks that can be safely turned off. That means you're going to have a huge limitation on what's going on right now. It will be about some species, perhaps counting on the fingers of two hands. It's limited. I believe that this can reduce the risks. As far as I'm concerned, we wouldn't have any consumer fireworks at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u157	Then I just note that Mr Klaver also says 'I am prepared to take some risks' and that he does not intend to come up with a total ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u158	Either the minister doesn't want to hear it, or she pretends she doesn't hear it. I would point out that we are proposing a total ban. I think that there should be, but I can also count and see that there are very few parties that ultimately want a really tough total ban. In the bill we therefore offer the Minister the opportunity to make exceptions. I hope that will result in us having as little fireworks as possible on that market. Don't tell me we're not in favour of a total ban. Don't say that the proposal we're submitting doesn't have a total ban in mind. We're looking for majorities; we're reaching out. I hope you catch him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u159	And the bill must be dealt with in the Chamber and discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u160	We'll be assessing it extensively. What I am actually trying to say to Mr Klaver is that with the approach he is proposing, he is actually saying: we are going to start from zero and then see what risks we want to take. I actually hear him say: I see that there is no majority in favour of a total ban, so I am also prepared to look for that balance, that balance to arrive at a fine and as safe as possible for everyone. In doing so, he accepts and does what the cabinet does, namely looking for that balance and looking for a reduction in risks. He just said fireworks aren't essential. I didn't hear him say that he would find those forms of fireworks essential at once. So we're actually looking for that balance again. I think that's what we can be expected to do. Furthermore, we will, of course, deal with the bill as soon as Mr Klaver submits it. This brings me to the end of my reply. The Minister of Justice and Security will take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u161	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u162	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet wants a safe year's turn for all who want the good. Last year, that was not feasible again. There were too many incidents and a horrible death of a father and a son, indirectly by fireworks. I had already indicated in advance that if the weather were to turn out this way, we would really have to take a big step to ensure that the new year would continue to be safe and festive. That is why the cabinet has taken and announced measures in the field of fireworks. My colleague Van Veldhoven has already spoken about this. In doing so, the Cabinet took the advice of the Security Research Council as an important guideline and also took into account the opinions of police and mayors. We must realise that the problems of the new year are far more than just fireworks. There is destruction, nuisance, violence against civilians, but also against aid workers, and serious abuse of alcohol and drugs. I appreciate the words of your Member Van Raak about this: 'dirty does not pass if we ban fireworks'. There is an important responsibility for me as Minister of Justice and Security. In fact, violence against aid workers has risen again: we are seeing a doubling of the number of agents that have fallen victim. That is unacceptable. This has my attention, not only in the sense of the bill on the obstruction of aid workers which entered into force on 15 December last, after having been adopted unanimously in your two Chambers, but also in relation to the legislative proposal on the prohibition of community service. I intend to bring this bill to your Chamber this year, together with Mr Dekker. Mr. Chairman. I am also working on a legislative proposal to recover the costs that the government has to incur in order to carry out a number of public tasks in the context of the remedying of illegal activities. It is about the costs that the Dutch state has to incur in order to get rid of and destroy fireworks illegally. There are huge costs involved. If we consider that the last year was 62,000 kilos of illegal fireworks, you can imagine that the costs of the Explosives Cleanup Service and the police are enormous. It's precisely by getting such a bill passed by your two chambers that we can give licks in a financial sense to those bastards. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about this and I would just like to say straight away that there will indeed be an enforcement plan. I'm going to do that together with the municipalities, the mayors, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other relevant organizations in the coming months. In the two letters, dated 10 January and last Friday, we also made it very clear that we want to get to work on them. I would like to mention a number of points that will be raised in this context, which I will answer immediately to the questions put by Mr Van Dam and Mrs Yeşilgöz: spot checks at the border, intensive cooperation with Germany and Belgium. In fact, I have already come to answer my questions. The introductory text quickly gets me out of here. Then there was the issue of preventive search. I would also like to mention this, because some of you, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Dam and Mrs Yeşilgöz, have also asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u163	Is that a preventive search point that has been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u164	No, I was gonna do that, but I didn't know if I could go on. I understand I've done it wrong again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u165	No, I'm not. That's good. Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u166	Maybe I don't understand. Has the Minister answered all questions about cooperation with abroad and enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u167	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u168	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u169	I was gonna have a "How do I put it?" A symbolic chastisement prevented by a short introductory text.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u170	I didn't know what I heard when you said you were done with your introduction. It's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u171	I don't know if I can say that, but I also thought I saw a tear of emotion shine over the fact that I got through it so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u172	You've got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u173	Now he's getting taller. Preventive search. Here's what I want to say. Mr Van Dam, Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mr Van der Staaij had questions about this. It is an important instrument, specifically in the fight against weapons possession. I would just like to remind the Chamber of my letter of last Monday, which we also discussed this morning in the general debate on combating crime. That is an important instrument. In any case, the police can search preventively in areas designated by the mayor using Article 151b of the Municipal Act. On the basis of Article 174b of the Municipal Act, the mayor may, in emergency situations, decide to search preventively without a decision of the municipal council. Following such an indication, the district attorney may order the police to search all those who are present in the public area in that area for the presence of weapons. If heavy fireworks are covered by the Wet weapons and ammunition, then it could be searched preventively. I would like to say in advance that I would like to examine that point. I would first like to explore with the College of PGs, police and mayors whether they really see that as a valuable addition to this point. The fact that preventive search at least has had good effects has been clearly visible in Rotterdam over the past few years, but that was the issue of weapons. I would also like to refer to my letter of Monday, where I have also addressed the question of whether preventive screening could sometimes, let me say, be improper or could cause problems in the field of equality. That is not the case. See the letter. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam asked for another possibility: closing buildings in the presence of a large amount of illegal fireworks, as proposed by acting mayor Remkes. There is currently a legislative amendment to Article 174a of the Municipal Act, which proposes that mayors be given the power to close in the event of serious violence, such as shelling, or a weapons finding, provided that public order around the home, the local or the yard is disturbed or there is serious fear of its origin. This naturally takes into account the desirability of closing down buildings in which illegal fireworks have been found. The consultation's started. After processing the responses, this proposal for an opinion goes to the Council of State. The proposal may be submitted to the House of Representatives in the third quarter. I admit that there is still a fairly small period of time until the turn of the year '20-'21, but who knows, we could move forward with each other, with the First Chamber. I would also like to point out that the principle of proportionality will, of course, also play an important role in this. Mr. Chairman. Members Kuik and Yeşilgöz asked about concrete arrangements with mayors. They have an important role to play in the smooth running of the year and also a number of powers. I've already indicated that I'm going to talk to the mayors about that enforcement plan anyway. At present, the VNG collects good experiences, good practices, from municipalities in the context of the last turn of the year. I would like to make it quite clear here, and because Mrs Kuik asked the question, that I am going to talk to the mayors this spring, starting Monday in the National Security and Police Consultation. Mr Van Dam asked a question about the presence of the police in the neighborhood after Christmas 3rd. I can say that in the run-up to enforcement is very important. The police deployment is ultimately a question for the local triangle. This issue must therefore also be addressed in detail in the enforcement plan. In response to the questions put by Mrs Den Boer and Mr Van der Staaij, I would say that volunteers are already being used to enforce the ban on fireworks. These volunteers, for example, were provided with hearing protection equipment during the last turn of the year. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u174	Before proceeding, there are questions from Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mr van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u175	Mayors have a lot of powers and instruments in their hands to make things clearer; I will summarize them briefly. We have just discussed, for example, land bans and everything that is covered by the Football Act. The minister says he's gonna sit down with the mayors and the VNG's on it, too. I am looking for concrete ways to follow this from the Chamber so that we can see how things are going. In which municipalities has things gotten very out of hand? Did we bet everything there? Maybe the mayors need something more there? I would like to do everything I can to ensure that this partial ban will not have been for nothing and that we will see all kinds of incidents that we might have avoided together. What can the Minister do so that we can watch from the Chamber? I would like to make it more concrete. I'm really glad he's gonna sit down with the mayors, but I'd also like to be able to follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u176	I think we can have that debate together after the summer, to see what came out of getting the data from the VNG. Other studies are also being carried out. I sent your Chamber a map of the Netherlands six months ago, where you can see exactly what kind of incidents are taking place. This really takes a bit more time than the month that has passed since 31 December and 1 January. In addition, I also need time to talk to mayors, police and prosecutors about what they need locally. That's why it doesn't make much sense to do it sooner. Let me give you an example. I myself was in Utrecht-Noord at the beginning of January to talk to the cops about what they have been through there. In Utrecht-Noord there is a very different kind of problem that is also triggered very differently than in a city like Apeldoorn, where a municipal firework ban already applies. So we need to see exactly what the good practices are. I believe it was Mrs. Chicken who pointed to Leiden. I also want to know why things went well there and how people are preparing there. I think it would be fine to hold a debate on this subject somewhere in September on the basis of some of the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u177	Thank you for this commitment; I appreciate that. I also understand that the Minister says: give me some time and space to take a good look at that. I would like to ask the Minister if we can do this as early as June. If it turns out that more is needed, then the Chamber will also have time and space to see what we can offer and do to ensure that the turn of the year is as safe as possible. I'd like a little time, too. I would therefore like to say to the Minister that I would very much appreciate it if it could take place in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u178	If we can do it in June, I promise you that we will plan it in June. It must be a debate in which Mrs Yeşilgöz and other Members do not, let me say, get a bit confused by the fact that not all the data are available, because I think it is too important for that. But if we can, we're definitely gonna set it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u179	I'd like to interrupt on the issue of human power. You can already hear back that the boas, the special investigators, and the policemen say that they don't really have enough people to keep an eye on everything in the days before the turn of the year. Wouldn't there be more opportunities to recruit more volunteers, in addition to the boas, police officers and volunteers who are already active, who can play a specific role in this enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u180	As far as the enforcement plan is concerned, as I have said, we will certainly see how we can really facilitate enforcement optimally. I would like to be careful not to involve people in enforcement tasks that are beyond their capabilities, such as arms, which is why I deliberately referred to the boas. That remains the norm for me. I have always said that the security of citizens is very important, including the safety of aid workers, the people who take the step forward in all kinds of crisis situations, such as a year-round change in which things get out of hand. However, they must be used to the extent to which they are technical and resource-related. But I think we will certainly see if there could be more deployments from other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u181	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u182	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Kuik also asked about international cooperation. It is important to point out that in 2018 we took various Polish webshops out of the sky. It seems to us that much less illegal crap has come from that direction. It's still there, but it did help. That was a collaboration between the Dutch, German, Polish and French investigations. The German police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have also provided us with excellent support for a number of Dutch requests for legal aid concerning cross-border German-Dutch illegal trade. Police and OM have indicated that there are further possibilities of cooperation with Belgium and Germany to further prevent that influx of illegal fireworks. I'm also going to talk to them about this to see what, to use an English expression, now "smart solutions" are, smart ways, to reduce that immediately with great strides, instead of having to set up all kinds of inefficient controls in border areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u183	That with the Polish webshops is, of course, a good example of effective intervention, but the police position paper also states, for example, that "the Public Prosecutor's Office had to take the decision in 2010 no longer to enforce the import of most types of consumer fireworks" and that the "recommendation to review this decision" would deserve to be able to effectively implement enforcement. What's the Minister's status on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u184	I'm gonna have to put that in perspective. This is actually another question that Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Kuik both had: do you, Minister, do you do enough against the illegal fireworks? So, what's going on? In the last year, 62,000 kilos of illegal fireworks have been seized. I think it's a terrible number, I'm telling you honestly, but it's at least a number that shows that the police really put a lot of effort into this, along with the D.A.'s office. Whether you say "unfortunately" or "beautiful," it's 10% more than a year before. That is, of course, all illegal fireworks, and that is, of course, partly in coordination with the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is also being prosecuted where possible. The directive to which you refer is no longer topical in this respect, I think. I want to promise to look at this immediately, because at least that directive is no longer in line with this practice. I would like to join with you immediately in making another comment on the questions put by Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Kuik. We are seeing a shift in trade on social media. It's gonna be different. Trade is less public, it's more darkweb. So I will also have to work on it in order to be able to do more. In 2018, a large number of providers were removed from the world market. Since then, no postal packages containing illegal fireworks have been intercepted in the Netherlands. But I think we can say that there will undoubtedly be a certain waterbed effect, and that it runs through other roads. There are now international investigations into these illegal fireworks. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u185	Mr President, may I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u186	Yes, Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u187	In addition to this. Thanks for the Minister's commitment to look at the decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but the police still have an alternative solution, namely that fireworks will no longer be physically sold but on the web, via the Internet. It'll be easier to intercept. Are you talking about this kind of creative solutions with the police? Are they also at the table to look at alternative routes to reduce imports of consumer fireworks which will be illegal from Belgium, Germany or other European countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u188	In this respect, the police are quite sophisticated in the detection methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u189	In any case, it is a very concrete suggestion. I would advise the Minister to look at this suggestion that the fireworks should no longer be physically accessible but only open up internet points, so that registration becomes clear and you can see when people have access to illegal fireworks from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u190	I'll check it again, but I think the police are already using this method. If they don't, I'll tell them right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u191	Can I take that as a commitment in the same letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u192	I don't know if I'm going to write a letter about it, because I told you the police are very sophisticated. That's an anglicism. In the meantime, at least I'm learning a lot about the methods the police use. I'll verify this again. If they do not yet apply this method, I will let you know, but without a counter-notice I assume they will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u194	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u195	Mr. Chairman. I already said something about the community service ban. Just for those who are looking at this debate for whom it is not yet quite clear: the ban on community service is an adaptation of our legislation that no longer makes it possible for people who commit violence against aid workers to be given community service or some community service. I am aware of the criticism that has emerged from the case-law. I will certainly go back to Mr Dekker's question in detail as to why I believe that this proposal is useful and justified. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Helder of the PVV had a few questions about the figures. Let's get this over with. The Public Prosecutor's Office has delivered 205 persons on suspicion of a crime related to the turn of the year. That was 250 last year, by the way. 51 times were violence against people who are committed to the safety of society, in other words, aid workers. 73 cases of violence against other persons and 71 cases of violence against property. Ten cases involve other facts, such as fireworks. Mrs Helder's question focused on rapid justice. Quick justice only succeeds before the courts in simple cases. There is the problem that once there is injury, for example, and that is, of course, quite often, fast-track law is no longer a good legal option. The D.A.'s gonna consider it. I think you've heard me say before that I shouldn't go in there. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Helder also had a question about the draft law on the extension of group liability in the event of other acts of violence. This has already been reported to the Chamber in 2013. It is then up to the initiator to reply to that report with a note. Then there will be an oral hearing. Following the exchange of views between the initiator and the Chamber, the Chamber may then express its views. That is a constitutional order that we really must continue to follow. However, I would like to point out that in 2012 there was a letter from the cabinet on the application of Article 141 criminal law, open group violence. I hear from the State's Attorney General and the police that article provides sufficient room for the detection and prosecution of public violence. The article is often used successfully. We will continue to do so until the initiativer's note arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u196	I heard in the first part of the Minister's replies that if it is an initiative legislative proposal from the Chamber, in this case, it is mine; that is true, it is the right state law that makes the cabinet only for a moment. But that is of course a bit selective, because former Minister Opstelten also managed to hijack my initiative proposal on the multi-annual co-operation and to make it a legislative proposal of his own. So look, if the cabinet is excited, then you can also briefly close with a Member of Parliament and say: well, maybe we can work together sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u197	Mrs Helder knows from a number of other issues that I would very much like to work with the Chamber in this respect and that I would also like to help. I made it clear... The cabinet said in a letter in 2012: listen, we have Article 141 Criminal law and that really works well in practice. That is, of course, a bit of the implicit message: we do not need to arrange this separately again. Anyway, you can do that if you want. I am speaking now, of course, from the point of view of responsibility for whatever my ministers have done. Then I understand that people say: well, that is not our priority right now. But it is fine if the initiative is simply continued, so we can always look forward to that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u198	The Minister refers to something from 2012. With all due respect, the group violence hasn't really diminished since 2012. The cabinet itself writes in the letter on the change of year that under the influence of alcohol, drugs and group pressure people, individuals, engage in violence against aid workers and in general. You want to pick up a whole group... That's what a bunch of cops said. There is even a video of that; the Minister will no doubt have seen it. They say, "I can't pick up an entire group because I can't see who threw that firecracker." This proposal would really help with that. Doesn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u199	Let me return to the open violence in groups; I would like to repeat this as the first point. The cabinet said in 2012: listen, there is a sufficient legal framework for tracking and prosecuting. There's a problem there. I'd like to be honest with you. That has to do with just seeing what happens, where and what. That's one. The second is of course... It is therefore a good thing that Mr Helder raises that point again. Indeed, we are dealing with the problem of alcohol and drug use, especially with group pressure and the like, and from there increasingly misbehaving. Aid workers tell me all the time: "In the past, at 1:30 a.m., they were completely lame of alcohol and then you were rid of them. Now, because they've been drinking too much, they're out of touch and doing the weirdest things. But since they're taking those pills with all that peppet stuff in them, they can still make amok until 6:00, 7:00 in the morning." That is the problem and it is right for Mrs Helder to point this out, but that is not so much a matter of this criminal law article. This simply depends on the fact that we as a society really have to say: these hard drugs, we really have to get rid of them, including the easy and recreational use. You've heard me say that a lot. Before the Commissioner goes any further disappointed, I would like to say once again that I will take the matter up again immediately if that note comes up. That's how I'm in the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u200	Mrs. Helder is happy. How far along are you now, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u201	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. I still have two very thin folders, but with a lot of small print. Mr. Chairman. I have two more topics. Mr Van Dam asks what plans there are to change collective standards and values of society. I hope Mr Van Dam forgives me, but I did not intend to change the standards and values of this society as Minister of Justice and Security. Because I very much believe in democratic society and I also believe in the standards and values that we have as a society. I would like to quote Mr Van Raak, because he is the only one who has pointed out that we are dealing here with a rather small group of absolute assholes who do not know how to behave. That card that I sent to your Chamber last year shows that there are whole areas in the Netherlands where indeed not so much happens, where people can apparently stand up at noon at night and where people do not misbehave at all. That's the vast majority of the population. We are dealing with a small group of people who are completely wrongdoing. On the one hand, we must stop letting these people get away with community service, but we must simply say to them: in our standards, it is true that if you commit violence against aid workers, you will get a custodial sentence, imprisonment, etc. That's the norm. But in the context of tackling undermining, I have also announced that we should not only be repressive but also repressive, and that is perhaps for a Minister of Justice and Security to go into the neighbourhoods separately. We must not only say very clearly to people what the norms and values that have always applied here are, but also: we are helping you, the people who want the good, to build that out and to be able to move forward. And we're helping the youth, who might have mentioned one of you who gets to see wrong examples and the like, not to fall into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u202	I'm just gonna drop out of the debate right now. I'll try to explain. We can make it a caricature that I would like some kind of state-led culture and values. I know very well that I have to report to another country in this world, and I have no need for that at all. The downside is the question: is it true that there are really only a few wheeldrivers doing this to us all? Mr. Azarkan just told me all the numbers. You have also sent all the figures to the Chamber and shown that the number of incidents of violence against policemen has increased. Mr. Klaver told me how he went through his New Year's Eve. Assuming there are only a few: do the people here in the gallery lose part of their livelihood because a few people are bragging the potatoes? Or is that because we have a problem in the Netherlands? In addition, the Minister himself, as I recall from an AO recently, is working on a committee to denounce the violence against policemen. Then I think to myself: you have just quoted Mr Van Raak, 'dirty does not go away with limiting fireworks, because we have a more fundamental problem with each other'. Surely it is not weird to ask the cabinet how that is going to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u203	Let us be clear: Mr Van Dam and I find each other under the banner of standards and values. That's one. I might fly it from a slightly different perspective. We are here with 17 million people, and I am convinced that 16.9 million, with perhaps another figure behind it, of those who not only share standards and values, but also implement them in practice. I'm saying two things. There is a group that does not stick to that and that has tried to turn the turn of the year into an animal gang in some places over the past twenty years. There is also a larger group of Dutch people who suffer from this, because they live in neighborhoods where that is so very often out of control. In fact, I think you should call on me to ensure that this last group lives safely in society; that is how I started my input. That's the point. So it is also a matter of taking measures to get those standards and values back on that small group of people who are just jerking their boots. That must be a few tens of thousands of dollars. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u204	It's just a question of whether it's a small group of people. As a prosecutor, I have seen for many years that people from all over the world are misbehaving, using drugs, drinking alcohol and shooting out of the band. I think that, compared to countries around us, we really make a substantial difference when it comes to our behaviour in public space. And we are sacrificing quite a bit: community service, this rule, the new legislation, the limitation of fireworks. How far do we go by not addressing the fundamental problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u205	Again. As Minister of Justice and Security, I would like to address that fundamental problem with a group of people who are certainly more than some tens of thousands of people. When I look at the National Drug Monitor, also a problem that has to do with the turn of the year, I see that there is indeed a group of several hundred thousand people who are in some form of hard drug use. Some use it once and it builds up in numbers. Then I also see that up there is a group of about 400,000 people, at least in 2018, who are actually on the point of normalising drug use and tolerate it in their environment. And we have to appeal to those groups, even when it comes to asshole behavior at the turn of the year. That's not part of our values. I have never wanted to suggest, as you know me, that Mr Van Dam or any Member of Parliament wants to go to a whole new state system. No, I wanted to say: listen, those values are with us, we've had them for centuries and they've been developed, and I think we should bring people in and tell them to stick to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u206	Finally. For me, the question remains: how? So how's the cabinet gonna have that discussion? I would like to add one more thing. In the period between Christmas and old and new I have indeed been a lot in the district of Duindorp. 6,000 people live there and I tell you that there are 5,500 people there who have suffered as a result of what happened there. Those are the people I stand for. And those are the people who need our support in this respect too. For me, it is really a big social question how can we all reduce the decency in the Netherlands a little bit, to give these people a support in the back. I'm just asking the Cabinet to come up with plans for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u207	We are therefore in total agreement; let me put it first. As far as these plans are concerned, I have already said something about them. In the context of undermining crime, as I have always said, I intend to come up with a firm plan together with OCW, SZW and VWS, who, together with the Legal Affairs colleague, focus mainly on youth work. In doing so, we want to ensure that people who are not already in it, especially young people, do not end up in the wrong mode, and on the other hand the 5,500 people Mr van Dam is talking about in Duindorp and other neighbourhoods really get a neighborhood where they feel comfortable and where they are safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u208	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u209	And my working visit to Utrecht-Noord has also clearly confirmed the image that we need to focus on this. I said this morning that I will of course return to your Chamber with the further elaboration of the intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u210	Yes. And you were in the middle of a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u211	One final point, yes, Mr President. On the issue of the NOS article, I refer to the response I gave at the beginning of the debate. I have no reason to add anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u212	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u213	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank my fellow Members and the directors for this debate and for the answers they have given. It is clear that I do not consider the steps taken by the cabinet to be sufficient. I think we really need a general ban on fireworks. That's why the Party for Animals and we will continue. I have also heard other parties who are open to such a ban. We will approach these parties to see if we can continue to work together on this in the near future. I think it is quite a fact that we know that a party is being organised where fireworks are being fired and where 1,300 victims are being killed, and that aid workers are being affected but that we are saying: we are trying to reverse the trend and bring it down a bit. That's not enough. What Mr Van Dam says is, of course, true. It also has everything to do with behavior, such as drinking. A policeman told me: we used to have drinks, but at 2:00 a.m. everyone was so kitty lamb that it was over; now there are also drugs used, so they can pass until 6:00 a.m. So it is not only that the intensity of violence has increased, because it has been a mess all along, but during New Year's Night it is still a mess. That's what the police have to do with big problems. That has everything to do with how people behave, but also with the fact that we allow fireworks when people are drinking a lot. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u214	Thank you, Mr. Clover. A brief question from Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u215	Yeah, this can be pretty short. I just received Mr Klaver's law during the debate. So I have not been able to study it yet, but I was very interested in listening to the debate between him and the Minister. I am going to look at that law with a very positive basic attitude, but I would like to clarify one thing. If I understand correctly, Mr Klaver wants to ban fireworks and then give the cabinet the opportunity to see what kind of fireworks we can still have. I heard the minister say he's gonna see what kind of fireworks we can still have and he wants to ban the rest. Can Mr Klaver tell us exactly where the difference is between what he wants and what the cabinet is presenting here today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u216	It is a general ban on fireworks, with which we also work standards and say: fireworks are not allowed. I have indicated that what the cabinet is doing now leaves a lot of room for different kinds of fireworks. What we do limits that much more. As far as I am concerned, that exception is not even used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u217	I couldn't help but walk to the interrupting microphone when it was about booze and drugs. Honestly, when I made such comments in a similar debate a few years ago, GroenLinks came forward to say: do you want us to take a critical attitude to drink and so on? My question to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is therefore whether Mr Klaver's old and new experience also led to a somewhat stricter policy on alcohol and drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u218	That's a whole different subject, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u219	Mr van der Staaij always wants to talk about alcohol and drugs in one way or another. No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u220	Okay, so no prohibition. Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u221	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the ministers for answering the many questions. We look back at a debate with some verbal fireworks. No more screaming kitchen girls, but a single pea bounces down the halls. This is a very serious subject. We all want to work together and move to a safe new year. We want to reduce the number of incidents. I therefore welcome the step this cabinet is taking. A number of commitments were made during the debate, for example regarding fireworks shows and the further extension of harmonisation through the EU Pyro Directive. Cross-border enforcement is also very important. As a Member of Parliament, I think it is very important to be able to monitor this properly, because it is an incredibly wide range of measures. I am therefore very curious to know how the cabinet will keep us informed. Perhaps that can be clarified, so that we can have the next debate with each other in a good and systematic way. I wish the Cabinet much wisdom and, above all, leadership in the joint task we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u222	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u223	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Cabinet for the answers. Clearly, when it comes to the social debate, the civilisation offensive, I am not quite convinced that this is what the plans are for. It is also very complicated; I am going to consider it myself. I've got two motions. Perhaps some of them have already been made clear in the debate, but I am committed to tabling a motion on them. The first one's about preemptive search. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the enforcement of the prohibition of illegal fireworks, in particular the serious illegal fireworks, is in practice inadequate;]] [[Whereas extending preventive powers can help the police to enforce the ban on fireworks more effectively;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to investigate the possibility of preventive search, especially with regard to heavy illegal fireworks, and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Dam, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Kuik and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-599]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u224	Mr. Chairman. It is not really a matter of substance, because we are quite sympathetic to this motion in terms of content. But this has actually already been promised by the Minister in the debate. So I would actually like to make the proposal, which also saves on the voting list, to withdraw this motion, because I believe that this is exactly what the Minister has promised, so this motion is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u225	Yes, Mr. Van Dam, how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u226	Well, I'll explain that to you. There is a lot of discussion about its implementation: whether it fits under the Arms and Ammunition Act or whether it fits into the Economic Crimes Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u227	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u228	So I am committed to continuing this motion at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u229	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I also looked at the Arms and Ammunition Act and what is needed there for the bill that we have written. I have also heard the Minister speak about this, and also about the dilemma there. That is simply a real dilemma, and I agree with you, and that needs to be properly investigated. I support you in this, too. But it's just a promise. And maybe it's okay if we don't make a motion as a chamber on things that are promised. I think that makes the instrument of the motion much sharper and gives a lot of attention to votes on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u230	First, I'm gonna listen to the appreciation of the motion. And with regard to initiative legislative proposals, you could also say that some of the things that have already been promised or fit into the policy are being submitted, so let's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u231	But you're taking this note, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u232	I'll take everything from the meeting, yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u234	And I hope you'll take these too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that carbidshooting in specific regions of the Netherlands is an essential part of the old and news tradition;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a limitation of fireworks is not at the expense of the current practice of carbidshooting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Dam, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Palland, Mr Geurts, Mr von Martels, Mr Slootweg, Mr Kuik and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-600]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u235	And yes, Mr. Klaver, on this motion, too, I would like the appreciation of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u236	Good. Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said in the first term, a ban without adequate enforcement amounts to tolerance. Then there is no support for the citizen either. That is worse on this subject, because it also affects the authority of the police. My group has a great heart for our agents. That is how you know me and all my colleagues, my group chairman, first and foremost. So we're just seeing a big danger here. That is why I have also asked for other measures, because a ban that cannot be enforced because of lack of capacity is not going to work. For the sake of time, I'll start my motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that consumer fireworks may be sold on three working days for the purpose of celebrating the turn of the year;]] [[considers that limiting sales time to only the working day or the Saturday immediately prior to the turn of the year is better, as experience shows that the fireworks are also turned off as soon as it is purchased;]] [[calls on the Government to limit the selling time of the consumer fireworks to one working day or the Saturday immediately before the turn of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is preparing a ban on fireworks and rockets, which will be in force for the coming year;]] [[noting that there is no transitional period and that there is no compensation for entrepreneurs who are wholly or partly dependent on the sales proceeds of legal fireworks;]] [[considers this to be an unreliable government;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a sound compensation scheme for the operators concerned before the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-601]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-602]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u238	Experience has shown that you can complete a motion when you start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u239	Well, hurry up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u240	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many incidents during the turn of the year involved unacceptable behaviour by groups or individuals, with in many cases group pressure playing an important, negative role;]] [[Considers that enforcement should make it possible to arrest and prosecute the entire group and thus reduce the burden of proof of the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[calls on the Government to increase group liability in the event of public violence, as laid down in Article 141 of the Code of Criminal Law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-603]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u241	Thank you, Mr President, to the directors for answering all the questions. The cabinet insists on banning fireworks and flares. That's fine, but at the same time it allows for a lot of other fireworks, lots of decorative fireworks. That's a missed opportunity. A first hurdle was taken, said the Security Research Council at the hearing yesterday. But the cabinet, the Party for Animals, has taken a very long run, which already started in September 2017. This makes the jump a little disappointing, especially because decorative fireworks cause most injuries, and also a lot of fine dust emissions, which means that lung patients are abandoned. There is little improvement for the animals as well. This partial approach to a life-size problem, once again, 1,300 injured and two dead during the last turn of the year, is a great chance that the problem of fireworks and fireworks victims will not be solved, but will be moved to other types of fireworks. Mr. Chairman. Mr Klaver also said: GroenLinks and the Animal Party have a bill in preparation that will solve these problems well and in one go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u242	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u243	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their detailed reply. I have two motions. The first is about enforcement, in addition to earlier motions on enforcement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that we should protect our agents and aid workers;]] [[believes that we still have to be able to enjoy decorative fireworks with old and new;]] [[believes that the thugs that are targeting our agents and aid workers need to be tackled harder;]] [[Whereas a ban on flares and fireworks will be introduced before the turn of the year of 2020-2021;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with mayors, police and om, to strengthen the enforcement and use of administrative powers, including by making best use of the reporting obligation, the football law, the claims of damages and fast-track law, and to inform the Court of Justice of the results by 1 June 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-604]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u244	Yes, Mr President, just to ask Mrs Yeşilgöz why this is necessary. We heard yesterday at the round table that the mayors already have a lot of administrative powers. That whole palette, that whole toolbox, we can open it. So what else should we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u245	Thank you for this question. Nor does the motion say that we all need to come up with further new measures, except that I support very much Mr Van Dam's call for preventive search. This is about the fact that we will not have to conclude that we did ban something, but that we did not allow it to be enforced. We know that a lot of instruments are used in many municipalities, but that this is also left behind in many municipalities. I have also indicated to the Minister that I want to be able to follow it here and make it concrete. I would also like us to know here that we are doing everything we can to ensure that it is maintained. I think this motion gives that extra push.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u246	Finally, Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u247	So this concerns the content, and then Mrs Yeşilgöz says: an extra push. But is the motion strictly necessary if it is already standing policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u248	I believe that, on the basis of the reports we have received, we can see that the current policy is not being implemented optimally and is not being effective enough at the moment. The reason we are now debating this issue is that we believe that a partial ban is necessary. So I think it's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u249	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u250	Mr. Chairman. I have another motion. The cabinet is very clear about this, but I am going to table a motion to compensate and accommodate entrepreneurs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a ban on flares and fireworks will be introduced before the turn of the year of 2020-2021;]] [[Whereas fireworks operators should be able to prepare themselves for this prohibition in a reasonable manner;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with fireworks operators in order to achieve a form of compensation and to find the necessary resources within the environmental policy articles of the IenW budget;]] [[also invites the government to inform the House of Representatives about the outcome and solution before 1 May 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Ziesgs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-605]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u251	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in municipalities which opt for a general ban on cutting-off, an exemption for the firing of fireworks in an organised context can contribute to the preservation of the old and news tradition in a safe and future-proof manner;]] [[Whereas lessons may be drawn from existing structures around carbidshooting in such a way;]] [[whereas the VNG and the Dutch Society of Mayors have announced that they will look into additional measures and alternatives to the firing of fireworks in the next two months;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the VNG and the NGB, to identify the possibilities for municipalities under the current laws and regulations to allow fireworks only in an organised context, in which conditions such as supervision and safety regulations are further developed, and to inform the Chamber in the spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-606]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u252	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the step forward proposed by the Christian Union today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of a total ban on buying and firing consumer fireworks, allowing municipalities to grant an exemption or permit the firing of fireworks in an organised context,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-607]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u253	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come back to Zaltbommel. I started my contribution to that. Last year things got really out of hand, but this year it had to be completely different and the mayor went into conversation with the young people. They asked what they needed for a nice new year, what it took to enable the villages to celebrate together a beautiful old and new. The result was a neighborhood party for the young people in one village and a joint fireworks in the other village. A wonderful solution! An old and new tradition and a party that connects people. I hope this will also be the case with the year changes in the future, not only in Zaltbommel but in every city, every village and every community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u254	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u255	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. The most important point, which was also raised in the letter, is the extension of the ban to include fireworks and flares. Yesterday, as a committee of inquiry, we held a hearing and heard that there is still a need for the police, among other things, but also for the municipalities to take one step further, at the moment. That is why the next motion for a resolution is on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the proposal from the police that, in addition to a ban on fireworks and flares, small loose fireworks such as fountains, ground flowers and torches should be prohibited from being thrown or shot at the police and aid workers;]] [[Whereas, according to the police, this would lead to greater security, that this would be more manageable and that it was also advocated by the Dutch Society of Mayors to allow only standing ornamental fireworks within category F2;]] [[Considering that such an approach follows on from what the Security Research Council has previously advocated;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to existing plans, to prohibit loose ornamental fireworks which pose a threat to the safety of emergency workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-608]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u257	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS. How many motions do you have on you, Mr. Krol? Oh, thank God only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u258	I'm glad to reassure you, Mr. Chairman. My thanks also to both rulers. Fireworks vendors fear for their turnover and are also angry at the rapid changes in this field, which they find difficult to respond to. I understand that very well, but we still believe in a firmer approach. Not all, but many municipalities like to organise professional fireworks shows, but they run into the problem that there are far too few professional fireworks lighters. Hence our proposal. The Minister reacted very carefully, almost persistently. And yet I sincerely believe in this step in this direction. Hence this extremely cautious motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas steps are being taken by the government to ban fireworks for individuals;]] [[Whereas a municipal fireworks show in municipalities wishing to do so may be a festive and safe way of celebrating the turn of the year;]] [[Whereas there are not enough professional fireworks lighters and fireworks vendors fear loss of turnover;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the fireworks industry by setting up a training course for fireworks vendors who wish to do so and thus to develop more professional fireworks lighters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-609]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u259	I'll give the Minister for Environment and Living the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u260	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam had asked another question about the possibility of aid in the event of destruction. I said a short word about this at first, but I would like to add that, of course, I would like to assure Mr Van Dam that, where necessary, I will provide an explanation of how safe destruction can be achieved. In addition to the sale to foreign parties, the fireworks can also be safely destroyed in the Netherlands. I have already mentioned AEB in Amsterdam, which is a possibility, but it can also be done with other AVIs. We are talking about a price of €3.50 per tonne or so. We are not talking about very large amounts of money. I would like to talk to the sector about this and look at the sector's thresholds and concerns, which we may be able to help with with knowledge and expertise. Maybe that's possible for licensing routes when it comes to the EVOA, because if you ever have to deal with it once, I can imagine it's all going to be a bit of a search. I would be happy to discuss this with the sector in this way. That is in response to Mr Van Dam. The motion in part No. 600 calls on the government to ensure that a limitation of fireworks is not at the expense of the current practice of shooting carbid. Indeed, I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The PVV asks in the motion in part No. 601 to shorten sales time. That time has a practical reason. Indeed, it is not possible to sell the total quantity sold in one day. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Then there are the motions on the items Nos. 602 and 605 by Mrs Helder and Mrs Yeşilgöz. I have been clear about this in the debate. The prohibitions can't really come as a surprise. In 2017, the OVV already advised against this type of fireworks. We took action at the time. There has also been constant discussion of possible further measures. Before Christmas, motions were adopted which also pointed in this direction. This then offers an action perspective at the time of purchase and thus falls under the entrepreneurial risk. I dissuade both motions. Then the motion to part No. 606 of the Christian Union asking with relevant parties to consider what municipalities can do under current regulations. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Christian Union asks what can be done within existing rules. We can certainly make that visible again. Then the motion to part No. 607 of the Christian Union on research into a total ban. In the letter we indicate that we evaluate the new year every year. As we have done now, we are not shy of taking further measures. We're looking for a good balance between safety and festivity. According to the motion of the Christian Union, we're actually going to a completely new system, so I advise against this motion. However, I have promised earlier to re-examine what can be done in an organized context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u261	Short question. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u262	The motion is now being dissuaded. Does the Minister also say that she doesn't want to keep this option in mind at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u263	We've talked about the possibilities that exist. Municipalities have the possibility to opt for a total ban within their municipalities or a ban in certain parts of their municipalities. Municipalities can also say: we are going to work in certain parts with exemptions, permits and so on. I have already indicated to Mrs Van der Graaf that I am prepared to identify what can be done in what way, because I understand very well that Mrs Van der Graaf is looking for this form, but not with a total ban as a basis, because then we would take another step in relation to what the cabinet has already made possible with that possibility of banning fireworks in a part of or the entire municipality. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 608. Mr Van der Staaij wants to ban loose fireworks. As indicated earlier, we are going to do in-depth research. We want to see a downward trend. If necessary, we'll come back to you with our steps. I have to discourage the motion at the moment, because it is ahead of us. Then D66 asked how the Chamber would be kept informed of the progress of fireworks shows, harmonisation and cross-border enforcement, among other things. Well, of course I'd like to keep the Chamber informed. As soon as there are results, I will inform the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 609 on encouraging fireworks dealers to train themselves. I have already said something about this in my first reply, I think. There are certainly opportunities for that education. This is a choice between the industry and the traders themselves, but there are opportunities. I advise the motion because it is not for the government to do anything about it. I understand very well that Mr Krol says that if we want to go to those kind of shows with each other, it is also very nice when that education starts. I think the industry can see where development is going. That is Mrs Van der Graaf's initiative: see if you can do that more often. It takes people with pyrotechnic training. That all points in a clear direction. Maybe I will finish my contribution to the debate. I see that we differ in ambition across the Chamber, but I do think we are taking steps together to make that year's turn safe. We're heading in the right direction. I do respect the fact that there are parties that would like to go even faster and even further. New initiatives have been announced for this purpose. We're going in a clear direction with each other that we want. It takes more than just a fireworks approach. We want to go to a safe and happy new year for everyone. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u264	Now! Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u265	Mr. Chairman. Three motions. The motion in part No. 599 by Mr Van Dam, co-signed by Mrs Yeşilgöz, Mrs Kuik and Mr Van der Staaij, I give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 603 belongs to the Member Helder. If I may read that motion in such a way that the government is called upon to examine whether enlargement is necessary, then I shall give her judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 604 by Mrs Yeşilgöz on enforcement and commitment, I also judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u266	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-05-tweedekamer-6.u267	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the ministers, the people in the public gallery and the MPs.
