ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-10.u1	Today we are discussing the commemoration of 75 years of freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Rutte, ladies and gentlemen. In the Chamber of Representatives of the First Chamber, also known to you as Commission Chamber 2, a partly empty shelf reminds of the period between 1940 and 1945. That shelf symbolises the five years in which the First Chamber did not meet and therefore no verbatim reports were made. The last meeting before the war broke out in the Netherlands was on 29 April 1940. The verbatim report of that meeting was adopted five and a half years later at the first meeting of the First Chamber after the war. That was October 18, 1945. That was 75 years ago this month. During the occupation the building of the First Chamber had been advanced, the government was in London and the work of the parliament had been suspended by the Germans. So the Chambers didn't meet anymore. After the liberation, Parliament couldn't just pick up the slack again. Both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber were incomplete because members had died, killed or left. The government chose a two-stage missile. The so-called Temporary States General met again in the autumn of 1945, with the aim of laying the legal basis for the Provisional States General. The draft law establishing the Provisional States General was adopted by the Upper House on 25 October 1945. The emergency parliament, as the Temporary and Provisional States General are also known, continued to function until the elections. This meant that Parliament's democracy was fully restored only after elections to both chambers in the spring and summer of 1946. Ladies and gentlemen. My predecessor, First President of the Chamber, De Vos van Steenwijk, opened the first meeting of the First Chamber of the Temporary States General on 18 October 1945 with the words: "Thus is the Fatherland after a reign of terror, a torment of five years, again free and independent." The Vos van Steenwijk has been President of the Upper House for more than sixteen years. At the time of his presidency, the Senate looked very different than it is now. The most obvious thing was the size. At that time, the First Chamber consisted of 50 members instead of the present 75. Another striking point is that the political parties represented in the Chamber at the time no longer exist. After the war, new political parties emerged. They often originated from one or more pre-war parties. One party did not return after the war for another reason: the National Socialist Movement, the NSB, was banned. Many people probably don't know that the NSB was represented in the First Chamber with four members after the 1937 elections and caused the necessary resurrection. The group was isolated in most debates. This did not prevent Members from making violent speeches and notable incidents. The incidents were mostly caused by disruption of the order of meetings. They even led to amendments to the Rules of Procedure. From that moment on, the President was able to deprive speakers of the floor and exclude members from attending the sitting. And he still can. Ladies and gentlemen. Three members of the First Chamber did not return at the hands of the occupying forces. The most famous was Hendrikus Colijn, who was also three times Prime Minister of the Upper House. As a leading member of the ARP, he was arrested in 1941. Colijn died in exile in Ilmenau in 1944. Herman Bernard Wiardi Beckman, Senator for the SDAP and better known by his call name "Stuuf," died in March 1945 in concentration camp Dachau of stain typhus. He was arrested by the Germans on Scheveningen beach when he tried to flee to London at the request of Queen Wilhelmina and Prime Minister Gerbrandy. Simon de la Bella, like Wiardi Beckman, member of the SDAP group, Jewish but above all trade union foreman, was already arrested in 1940 on suspicion of the disappearance to England of a substantial sum of trade union money. The la Bella was transported to Dachau and gassed in 1942. On May 1, 1941, the Labor Day, De la Bella wrote in Dachau the poem "A Last Greeting" to his family and friends. In the first verse of the poem he describes the hopelessness of his captivity: A sign of life and a greeting, A mood image of the mind; Despite the study and the work: Monotony... The days without purpose, A feeling of restlessness, Willed to bear the burden of fate, Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, Ladies and gentlemen. The events in the First Chamber leading up to, during and shortly after the war, little research has been done. Our colleague, Tiny Kox, there he is again, I would almost say, a few years ago, suggested that the Chamber pay attention to that period and to the senators who died during the war because of the occupying forces. As a result, the book we are presenting today, entitled War Lighting. The title refers to the members of the First Chamber of the States-General in the period from 1937 to 1946. Thus the book covers a longer period than the five years of war, but that has everything to do with the years in which the senators of the War Light served. In 1937, the last pre-war elections took place and in 1946 the first post-war elections took place. The book was written by Laurens Dragstra, advisor of the First Chamber, who sits on my left for this occasion. "Warlight" offers an impressive picture of a largely forgotten period in Dutch parliamentary history. 75 years later, this book fills the pages of those years so far unknown. The book is a written monument and a reminder to all of us that living in freedom is true wealth. The second verse of De la Bella's poem he wrote in concentration camp Dachau is about his desire for freedom: Desire for free life, To be able to display the forces To all those who care, With difficulty going through life. Desire for the forest, the moor, The sea, the beach, the green meadow, To the reunion, also of the mates in many... When the sun will shine again! De la Bella, Wiardi Beckman, Colijn and so many others have never been allowed to experience that freedom again. The restoration of parliamentary democracy in the post-war period and the freedom that we are still allowed to experience every day 75 years later are invaluable. At the present time, when we are all being called upon to deal wisely with our freedom, comparison is sometimes made with the invulnerableness of the German occupation. The corona crisis and the measures that have been taken will have a serious impact on the lives and health of many people, on the economy and on our freedoms to deal with and stand with whomever we want. However, there is one big difference from the period that ended 75 years ago. In 2020, we live in a parliamentary democracy, in which the people's representatives have the last word. It is therefore good to consider today, during these General Political Reviews, in which we are debating government policy, the period 1940-1945, in which Parliament was put out of play. Ladies and gentlemen. Today I am delighted to offer the first copy of War Light to the Prime Minister, also historian and our neighbor at the Binnenhof. I'm suspending the sitting for a few moments to offer the book.
