ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the budget for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u2	Today we are discussing the first term of office. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, as well as all the spokesmen. We have 19 spokesmen. A number of groups are not participating, and we still have 19 spokesmen, with a lot of speaking time. I would like to propose that six questions per group be put to the House in the first term. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV. It is nice to see a number of colleagues back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had already finished my speech, and then came the interview with Minister Grapperhaus last Saturday. Then I almost fell off my chair, because what did the Minister say? "I've been given a few big taps because of the fact that it didn't go well at my wedding." He said he got a few butses out of it. What an embarrassing crying story, because do you know who got ticks? Our police officers and boas, who have to maintain the corona rules of this minister of class justice and false security, the agents with PTSD, whose files have still not been handled, and the agents who have been sent off with an unjust VIC investigation. Mr. Chairman. I knew the appreciation of the policemen at the minister's office wouldn't be paramount. The police weren't even mentioned in the Throne Address. But sending out law enforcement agents and deliberately patching those rules to your boots and then squeaking when you're caught is unworthy of a minister. My group has therefore supported the motion of censure. But unfortunately, we have to sit the ride with this minister until March. Fortunately, it is his last budget and that is why we are taking stock of it today. First, the capacity of the police. With a $500 million cut, 3,000 agents have disappeared. Upon his arrival, the Minister thought he'd fill that hole with 291 million. The police capacity, especially blue in the street, would thus be supplemented by 1,100 people. That didn't work. In the budget it is worded as follows: this enlargement, combined with other investments, results in a formation of 52,000 fte, which is expected to be fully occupied in 2024. Conclusion: too little, too late; ergo, failed. What has increased during this cabinet period is the number of tasks. The most striking are the maintenance of the corona measures and the still increasing number of incidents involving confused persons. In the meantime, there are over 100,000 a year. Conclusion: no beginning of a solution yet. How does the Minister himself look at this? Then there is a recurring source of annoyance, not just in my group: the diversity of police forces. If it's not the minister who's undermining the police, it's the department itself. The pursuit of diversity remains like a dark cloud over the corps. In the meantime, we have a new chief of police, but that too continues this absurd policy. In the corps line they are completely unsinged from the workplace. Let me give you two examples. A quote: "It's a matter of time until the headscarf can be worn on the police uniform." Of the statement that a headscarf should be possible with the uniform, at that time at a debate evening there were more supporters than opponents among those present. That was called a positive trend. Last year, the Minister reaffirmed the code of conduct, which required neutrality. Well, that's obviously not what the police department's paying attention to. So the Minister has no preponderance. One question to him is therefore whether he is going to restore this immediately in the interests of the entire police force. I mentioned the appreciation of police officers at the beginning. For my group, of course, we are talking about the heroes of the DKDB. That won't be a surprise. It's mostly about them in the workplace. I have two major points of criticism that are now, truly, crying out for action. The first concerns the VIK investigations. VIK stands for security, integrity and complaints. The second concerns the PTSD problem. The evaluation of the VIK system is devastating. The integrity studies are often slow, unscrupulous or respectful. The executives themselves order the investigation. It is therefore not independent and is sometimes used for other purposes. Agents were sometimes relieved of their duties immediately, suddenly came home and were confronted with a restraining order. A suspect in a criminal trial is treated even better. And what does the Minister say? He says that the report makes it clear that change in the VIK system is necessary, not least because it has also become apparent that due to this poor quality, people may be damaged. That is quite wrong, and the Minister knows it. There's no doubt that people have been damaged. It won't just be my mailbox that fills it regularly. This is just an example of poor employership of the corps leadership. And what's the Minister gonna do? He's going to change the system, or the flight forward. But that's too fast for me. What's gonna happen to the cops who were wrongly sacrificed? Is that gonna be investigated? Do they get satisfaction or excuses? Without it, the executives will go free and there will never be confidence in the new system. Then there's the PTSD issue. This really is the ultimate example of bad employership. Last year, I asked why people would go through with being cops with PTSD. To date, there have been more than 200 long-term cases, still without any prospect of a solution. Can the Minister indicate how many cases have been continued on appeal? That is contrary to his promise. And does the Minister acknowledge that this proves that even here the corps leadership is heading its own course, despite the Minister's commitment to the Chamber? Tomorrow, the Minister will undoubtedly refer to the new system when he responds and say that there will be tailor-made work, etc. But on the basis of reliable information, I can tell the Minister that the opposite is true. That's why I have three questions. First of all... Is the Minister aware of the fact that calculations are being made by so-called calculation experts, who are themselves appointed by the police and whose expertise is not established at all? Apparently, they have embarked on a new system of calculation which is not clear at all what it means. Second. It is appalling that the amount of money already paid or pledged is deducted from the remaining damage. This is due to the fact that the Minister has written that it is "socially common." This is completely incorrect, unjustified and also undesirable, because it removes the police work from the high-risk professions. Legally, it is also incorrect when it comes to amounts already allocated. You can't bring them back. That's also confirmed by the court of Zwolle. Nevertheless, the police insists that there is a new legal system. That's not true at all. Instead of a case still being handled neatly, the ex-agents are thrown in front of the bus one more time by their own former police department. Is the Minister going to put an end to this right away? Third. Is it true that the so-called 'Commission on Excessiveness' is no longer working? If so, then that can hardly be a coincidence, because the basis of this committee is hanging by a thread. Since December 2019, a case has been pending before the Haarlem Court, in which it has been argued that this committee is not competent because it is not legally established. The verdict may come one of these days. If it is affirmative, then my question to the Minister is what that means for decisions based on the opinions of this committee. Are they going to lapse with retroactive effect? Finally, on the subject of PTSS, is the Minister going to set up an independent assessment committee with expert lawyers and actuaries on the matter? Otherwise, a new contour system, which is clearly different from a new legal system, has no chance of success. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Mr. Chairman. Then organized crime. Unlike the legal economy, drug trafficking and organised crime are barely affected by the corona crisis. The need for a broad offensive against organised crime is therefore undisputed. As far as my group is concerned, the measures which the Minister then announces cannot go up a tooth but a whole tooth. I read a lot about plans, but I want more people here: district cops, detectives, financial detectives and cyber experts. We're not asking that for the first time. What I'm not asking for the first time is money. Fortunately, it is now a structural amount, but the 150 million is far too little. It's a drop on a glowing plate and it doesn't start until 2022. Especially now that many companies are vulnerable, undermining is lurking. We'll have to get ahead of that. Does the Minister agree with me and, if so, what else is he going to do, except to list what he has already written in the letter? Not a single word about the increase in the chances of getting caught and more severe penalties. Drug crime has been able to take off because the chance of taking drugs is extremely low and the penalty rate in the Netherlands is the lowest among all EU Member States. Not for nothing was the reaction of the Chief Commissioner of the National Police Unit to the remark that it was severely punished that "it would be nice for our target group to have the same experience." The Chairman of the Strategic Board Undermining noted that "the current punishments by criminals are literally taken on sale. They are internationally at such a low level that that explains why drug production is concentrated in the Netherlands." What is the Minister going to do about that? Rounding up. Where the minister on the bike chicks in the park pointed out the corona measures, he could better focus his attention on the fight against drug crime. A tough approach and not talking and getting reports. The Minister himself was not afraid to break his own rules, but he shows a softness that is not appropriate. Is he finally going to show his teeth in the aftermath of his ministry where that is needed? It would be nice if it were with its own initiatives and not with legislative proposals that I can almost smell the PVV stamp on every time. The public service ban on violence against aid workers is now finally going to be introduced. I'm very happy about that, because I've been walking it for ten years. We also saw this morning that there will be a legislative proposal that groups of substances that can be used to produce synthetic drugs will now finally be incorporated into the Opium Act. I can already see Mr Van Nispen laughing, because I believe that we have been asking this for five years now. When the Minister took office, he was given the proposal ready to go, because the PVV and the SP undoubtedly also said it already in 2010. It would be nice if the Minister would also come up with his own initiatives. This is fun, but it looks more like it's for the media. Of course, we are very keen to see the proposal come forward, otherwise we will not believe it. So I'd love to hear the list tomorrow. And then we're gonna go check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mrs Helder. Mr Groothuizen is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is right that Mrs Helder should reflect on organised crime. That is a big problem and we have to do something about it. One of the things you see in organized crime is that it's a global phenomenon. You can also see the internationalisation in this: there are Moroccan, Turkish groups in it, South Americans do things here. I would think that that would mean that we should have a police force that is diverse and capable of responding well. I am therefore surprised that Mrs Helder is saying such ugly things about the police's diversity policy. We need people who know what it is like in other groups, who can work in them, who speak the language and who know the mores.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Grothuizen knows: this is a question for my heart. Diversity, I can't be strong enough to force something like that. You have to judge people by their quality and by what they can do. The pursuit of diversity and that the police always call out that it can only be effective when it is diverse are the greatest possible bullshit. You throw the current, almost 60,000 police officers who do their job very well, with that in front of the bus. Like they're not doing their job right! We need more people and more resources. The capacity needs to be increased. We also need a lot of people with expertise. But to focus only on diversity because you then "talk to all groups" is pertinently incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mrs Helder is getting a little confused about the question and is now making it very broad. My point is: a part of the fight against crime is the fact that crime is globalising and that our society has become more diverse. If you want to get a foothold in those kinds of groups, it is useful to have that knowledge. I myself have sometimes done something in the fight against crime, and I know that it is sometimes very difficult to find people who can infiltrate the Turkish or Moroccan underworld, for example. Does Mrs. Helder recognize that? And is she willing to say that she thinks that if we expand the detective capacity and want more people in the neighborhood, we also need people who have knowledge of these cultures and backgrounds?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u8	I hear Mr Groothuizen almost repeating his minister from the previous debate. Diversity is not a solution to everything. People talk about diversity as if everything is going to work very well at once. It is not that when you appoint Turkish agents, "the Turkish community" will feel understood at once and will comply with the law. That's not how it works, is it? And there are also groups within the Turkish community. We're gonna get a cop who says, "What's the call? Breaking and entering. What's the suspect's signal? Well, he looked Turkish. Oh, we'll send a Turkish agent." It just doesn't work that way, does it? You need to see if someone agrees with the standards and values and if that person is able to meet those quality standards. On that basis, you must be appointed, not on the basis of "diversity."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mrs Helder. We will wait until the chair is cleaned up, and then I will give the floor to Mr Markuszower, also on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. Just a little longer. A few more months and then voters can finally put an end to four years of buttery justice and security policy. Today we are discussing the latest budget for Justice and Security Ministers Sander Dekker and Ferd Grapperhaus. That is good news for anyone who wants to make the Netherlands a safe country. That is good news for anyone who does not want to live in a country where corruption, unwillingness and incompetence in justice are the order of the day. Because what is wrong with the Netherlands of Dekker and Grapperhaus and with the Netherlands of the VVD and the CDA? An underage girl is systematically raped by a pack of immigrant boys. The chief offender is of age, but they are demanded by the officers of Grapperhaus and Dekker 60 days of juvenile detention. 60 days for a group of rapists. It's too nauseous for words, isn't it? For 60 days, that disgusting perpetrator will be coddled, while, together with his foreign friends, he has threatened, blackmailed, abused, humiliated and raped a young girl for months. The officers of Grapperhaus and Dekker motivate their demands with the story that the perpetrator in question would have a somewhat limited ability, but that's what all these overly-soft parties always say about those dirty perpetrators. It's a dirty excuse that's too often pulled out of the goat's wool cabinet. Those VVDs and CDA's parrots have all been following that up. What you're dealing with, it seems you're getting infected. The VVD and the CDA have let cargo after cargo of viper spawn into our country, raping and assaulting our girls, intimidating our mothers, robbing our grandmothers and molesting our sons. And what do the district attorneys and the judges do? They're making excuses. excuses to punish them as lightly as possible, so that the thugs can quickly get back on the street or, in this case, find another cellar box to abuse another girl. Of course, the dirty, raped child abusers of the Netherlands are not just foreigners. Sometimes they are just former senior executive of the young people's VVD and work as chief prosecutor for Grapperhaus and Dekker. Up to the highest levels in the Netherlands, the dung, which is child abuse, has managed to get involved. Sometimes, like the Zeeland garage owner and his wife, they abuse their own children and let others sexually abuse the young children of less than 2 years and 7 years of age, for years, no less than eleven years. The girls, and sometimes their girlfriends, were drugged and then abused by their own stepfather, but also by other men.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u11	I think it is very good that the PVV, on this day against violence against women, is making a big and important point of sexual abuse and intimidation of women.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u12	Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have the following question: does Mr Markuszower also see the increase in violence and intimidation of women by the alt-right movement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u14	Are you talking about women in the alt-right movement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u15	No, the point is that there is more and more sexism and harassment against women on the Internet. Often this comes from the social media on the internet of the alt-right movement. Is he familiar with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u16	No, I'm seriously unfamiliar with the alt-right movement. That's not a joke. I don't have anything to do with it. Everything that's "alt" is really bothering me. Everything that's alt-right already sounds filthy. Anything alt-left, left, sounds weird to me, too. I had nothing to do with it. Anyone who threatens women or men must be treated hard. That's what the PVV's been standing for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u17	I think Mr Markuszower is a little too concerned. I didn't say the PVV was connected to the alt-right movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u18	I just don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr Markuszower mentioned a very sad thing that was intimidating for women. I notice that all sorts of studies have been published, and the AIVD also says that the increase in sexism and violence against women is very much promoted on the right. This is done, among other things, through the alt-right movement, but also through the incel movement. Unfortunately, I never hear the PVV about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u20	On this point, I will take over that plea. Anyone who threatens women or men, approaches them by force or commits violence must be dealt with vigorously. I make absolutely no distinction in that regard. Fortunately, I have no more knowledge of any movement than the knowledge I have from the messages of the normal media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u22	When I read that story in the newspaper last week about that Zeeland stepfather and his wife who had abused their own children, I got furious. Those offenders must be locked up for life. As far as I'm concerned, they should never see daylight again. I expected and hoped that our ministers would have the same anger and emotion and act accordingly. But what do the officers of Grapperhaus and Dekker demand? Six years. So such a child abuser walks after the cell discounts that the VVD and the CDA continue to grant criminals, after four years again like a predator strunking on the street, looking for his new prey. This policy will allow such a child abuser to make new victims in a few years' time. What kind of country are we living in, Mr. Chairman? You raped and drugged two very young girls for years. You pimp them out, I know how many people, but after less than 50 months, you're out. The mother of those children is a compassionate, drugged and abused those children and let her husband abuse those children by many others. And do you know, Mr. Chairman, what that mother was doing in prison while she was in custody? She started an affair with a prison guard. Anything can and can only be done in this country! You're getting away with everything! Serial rapist and assailant Jasin A. held all of Leiden for months last year. Girls were afraid to go out on the street anymore. Two rapes and a sexual assault, and what does the judge say? That judge just fooled society, fooled the victims and says, "Jasin, all those rapes, all those young lives destroyed, that's not so bad." Three years in prison is more than enough. In fact, the judge says to Jasin: in two years you will be released. Free from the prisons of Sander Dekkers VVD and those Sander Dekker prisons are a joke. Perpetrators are being pampered. In prisons, parties have been held for years. When the corona crisis broke out and the whole of the Netherlands had to stay inside, there was one group that was released. Those were Secretary Sander's prisoners. In order to prevent a corona outbreak, prisoners no longer stayed in prison, but were allowed to go home with an anklet. We all know what happens to those ankle straps: they are cut on the assembly line. If we ask the Minister how many people committed a criminal offence while wearing an anklet at the time, then the Minister does not even know it! That's not even registered. But some of the prisoners are still in jail. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, we could read in the media that they are getting their contraband like drugs delivered by drone. And Sander Dekker stands there and looks at it for years. In the Netherlands of Dekker and Grapperhaus criminals are protected and coddled. In the land of the CDA and the VVD, the victims are in the cold. Last few days, Minister Grapperhaus did a round of media: one big ego tour. Lots of "I," a lot of chest beat, lots of kettle music, very little result. Grapperhaus had plenty of time for interviews. He said, among other things, that the Netherlands should not become Europe's drain where the fight against drugs is concerned. Instead of talking so much, he should have done it. In all this media talk, Grapperhaus was unable to address the word "Islamic terror," which is the greatest threat we as a country are facing. In the country of Grapperhaus, it is possible that terrorists, who have been found by the judge to have participated in a terrorist organisation, will be punished with only one and a half years in prison. That's not punishment, is it, Minister Grapperhaus? That's a joke, isn't it? With this kind of punishment for terror, you don't have to worry about drains. With this kind of punishment, Minister Grapperhaus, you are the largest terrorist magnet in Europe. Those jihadis aren't just laughing at you, they're threatening our teachers. How can it be, Minister Grapperhaus, that teachers, teachers, who try to teach our children something and deserve our support and protection, have to go into hiding, while their behaviors are also terrorists who are free to roam? How can it be, Minister Grapperhaus, that you have time for that intensive round of media over the last few days, but not just doing your job and picking up those jihadis, who are bereaved by those teachers? I have seen on social media that the names of the bereaved of, for example, those Leiden lecturers are known and I expect the Minister to inform me tomorrow that these jihadis, these terrorists, have been caught and are in long detention, are being tried quickly and are being punished for a long time. You wouldn't be a real Minister of Justice and Security if you let a teacher's behavior run and let the threatened teacher go into hiding?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u23	How's it going, Mrs. Van Toorenburg? I think it's very handsome how you do it. It's a little tricky, because you need to be on that foot pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr. Chairman. I thought I went in with a stretched leg today...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u25	You will!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u26	...but I hear the PVV go all the way! Just for a second. I'm just listening, and I understand that there are things you can find quite a bit of. I'm not happy with everything either. I'm starting to hear a bit that the PVV actually thinks that these rulers are giving the punishments in the Netherlands. That's kind of weird. Does the PVV think that the Justice Ministers should now decide how much punishment someone gets? Or do we still have a legal system in the Netherlands in which we make the laws with each other and ultimately impose a penalty on judges? It may be too low. We can also talk about the law of morality, which Minister Grapperhaus is working on, and also from Legal Protection, which Dekker is working hard for. I'm kind of looking for who's gonna pay the penalty here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u27	I was going to say "you," but first I want to wish you a lot of health and strength with your leg. But you, Mrs Van Toorenburg, must do so. The coalition parties must, of course, make the punishments higher. We have done it countless times, but you will never vote with us. It's gotta do that. Your minister doesn't do that. Nobody does that here except the PVV. But, yes, we don't have a majority yet. I know what the law is like: we make the law here. Those sentences need to be higher. You don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u28	I always get criticism that we increase the penalties so often, so I am glad that this is not recognised by the PVV. But for a while. We have introduced a whole new prison policy, in which people can only earn some freedoms in good behaviour. We have introduced legislation on a number of points. Isn't it an overstretched leg the PVV is working on, or is it just the conclusion that it should all be with minimum punishment and that no judge should be able to deal with it anymore? Because that's what the PVV wants in the end. I get that, too, because I hear how easy people get away with it sometimes. I'll be bitten, too. Nevertheless, I think: a minimum sentence for all crimes ultimately makes a country very dangerous. That is what we see in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u29	Well, all the crimes... Let's start with the violent and sexual crimes. That's our point. Mrs Helder has been fighting for years for the accumulation of penalties, so that, among rapists such as Robert M., who abused 86 or more small children, 86 times a high sentence can be handed out. Minimum penalties are, of course, good, because those judges are terribly weak and incompetent when it comes to sexual and violent crimes. I just called terror, too. I think the average number of days is 1,000 or so in the case of murder. It is simply not enough what is given in the Netherlands. Even the CDA thinks so. You say it a lot, but you don't. The VVD often says a few things before the election, but it doesn't happen. And yes, the ministers don't do anything for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u30	I want to talk to the PVV about penalties on every proposal that can be made custom-made. But I want to stand up here today, which is not so easy at the moment, to throw away from me the fact that our Dutch judges and our prosecutors are incompetent and cowardly and what other qualifications they have all been thrown at their heads. They're not here. We're the legislator. You just didn't get a majority for minimum punishment. That may be annoying, but don't put that on the judges and the officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u31	No. Let everyone know that there are no severe penalties in the Netherlands because parties like CDA and VVD systematically stop them. It is true that parties such as Mrs Van Toorenburg, the CDA, and Mrs Bente Becker, the VVD, are not severely punished in the Netherlands. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u32	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u33	Sometimes, very often, the elite parties do make effective use of their judiciary. That's when they decide to prosecute the leader of the opposition, Geert Wilders. Then they, all those elite politicians and the civil servants associated with their party, twist themselves into ten thousand turns. Then there will be no more trias politicians. Then suddenly everything gets pulled out of the closet. Millions of euros will be spent. Because if you can't take out a political competitor through elections, if you don't get through the democratic rules to beat your political opponent, then you're just trying to do it through the judiciary, right? Only corrupt ministries of justice and security from the dark dictatorships try to eliminate competing politicians through the judiciary. Only corrupt ministries of justice and security are able to throw Julio Poch in front of the Argentine lions via a trick. This minister too is anxiously trying to keep the stinking cesspool closed and withholds information on this issue. The sneaky CDA minister Hirsch Ballin started lying and his successor, also a CDA, covered this lying predecessor and was even willing to put the Constitution aside for this. But that's not the only sin of this Minister Grapperhaus. He's bugging whistleblowers. Whistleblowers who brought out his WODC were fired and intimidated by this minister. Like many other whistleblowers working at Justice and Security, they are pushed back into the Omerta, the culture of silence. None of these are incidents. In the Netherlands of Rutte, we are dealing with a culture of keeping public affairs away from the citizens and the representatives of the people. Road painting is under the VVD van Rutte elevated to an art. Despite Article 68 of the Constitution, which gives members of parliament the right to all information, hide, hide and conceal essential information. That's how they destroy lives. They destroyed Poch's life. Wilders' life is trying to destroy them. The lives of the thousands of victims who made Wiebes and Asscher cum suis have been destroyed, also because the government refused to share all information with this House of Representatives and the investigative journalists in time and in full. We do know that at some point everything that's being put under the carpet is gonna stink like hell. And isn't it terrible that the Council of State, the judges of Grapperhaus and Rutte's cabinet facilitate all this? Always release all the information that MPs, journalists and citizens ask for. Mr. Chairman. It's really not that complicated. The Netherlands can become a safe and just country, a country where perpetrators are treated hard and victims are protected. A country in which fathers no longer have to fear for the safety of their children. A country in which street thugs are removed from society for a very long time. A country in which street terrorists who unhinge and insecure entire neighbourhoods, streets, pools and beaches are punished directly at the first trial with a heavy minimum sentence. A country in which foreigners or offenders of dual nationality are being squeezed out of our country. A country in which rapists and child molesters can never get away with their act and disappear into prison for at least 20 years, preferably for life. A country in which justice is obliged to prosecute violent and sexual crimes and in which judges are obliged to impose very high penalties for violence and sexual crimes, not on average 24 months for rape and therefore no less than three years for prison sentences for terrorists or less than 600 days for traffickers. You don't want criminals like this back in society, do you? A country in which we Dutch people say to the current top of the police, justice and the judiciary: you make a big mess of it, do not function properly and do not really deal with crimes and so every four years we are going to choose criminal and chief prosecutors ourselves. Then we immediately put an end to this mad practice of giving penalty discounts and then we ensure that perpetrators are punished by deed, so that you can pile up crimes, which Mrs Helder of the PVV has been fighting for years, and so that you can always punish those who did this high. Then we will ensure that criminals convicted for the second time for a serious crime of violence or sexual assault will always receive a double sentence. Then we will ensure that terrorists and sympathizers of the jihad are arrested and detained preventively. Then we will make the Netherlands a country where criminals are caught and locked up in jail and where the common Dutchman can live in all safety and freedom in our beautiful country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. What a huge mess is the Dutch asylum policy after ten years of VVD in power. It's failed on failure since the VVD is on the buttons on migration. Fred Teeven performed a children's pardon. Klaas Dijkhoff allowed adult men to take their underage brides to the Netherlands and then broke all migration records. Then Mark Harbers, known for covering up asylum crime and the private bus line for troublesome asylum seekers. Finally, it has been up to Mrs Broekers-Knol for a year and a half to screw up on behalf of the VVD. For a year and a half we have heard Mrs Broekers-Knol talk about hard work, hard work and serious work. I've only become more sceptical about all this superlatives and VVD marketing talk, without even one positive result for the people who are dealing with all the nuisances and who see their rental homes passing by their noses to asylum seekers. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. The failure of the VVD and Mrs Broekers knows no bounds. Let's start with the case of Morocco. Illegal Moroccans still plague entire neighborhoods with their intimidation, theft and nuisance. Mrs Broekers is still virtually not getting these troublemakers out of the country. She has been de facto declared persona non grata by the government from Morocco and is still not welcome in Rabat to talk about troublesome Moroccans. What a mockery. Isn't it time for sanctions, Mr. Chairman? An entry ban for Moroccans, for example, or the withdrawal of Royal Air Maroc's landing rights, freezing the assets of dignitaries, summoning and then sending home the ambassador of Morocco? Or is Mrs Broekers in this sacrifice by the Moroccans? Of course, this problem of illegal Moroccans does not come from the sky. No, illegal Moroccans simply enter the border across the Netherlands by car, bus, truck or train, just like all the other so-called asylum seekers. And that's where the real problem lies. Our borders are wide open and no one is stopped at the EU's external borders. Anything and anyone can come in and then choose the country that suits them best. Will it be Merkel's "Wir" Germany or the Netherlands where the VVD offers asylum seekers, illegal or terrorist, shelter, gives free food, care and so on? So what does a large part of those asylum seekers do? They travel nicely to the Netherlands, because there you get everything at the expense of the indigenous people thrown in your lap. In fact, even if you don't have a right, you get it anyway. And if you're not supposed to get it, then the VVD will find a way to pamper you anyway, because then they'll just start a bed-bath-bath project for illegal foreigners. This project is now being converted into a so-called "national immigration facility" in which processed asylum seekers are helped by creative means to obtain a residence permit. How well such projects work, we have been able to see in left-naïve Amsterdam: 3.3 million hard-earned tax peaks away, and a total of one illegal stranger who has left. So what does Mrs Broekers think will happen if this is the VVD policy? That people are gonna leave the Netherlands? Of course not. They come and masse here, and no one can blame it, except those who make and maintain this policy. All this malpractice has led to the influx into the Netherlands, despite corona, being unprecedentedly high. At least 500 asylum seekers come to the Netherlands every week. The trouble is that these people not only cause nuisance, but also cause huge costs. We have seen that, before the PVV came up with the initiative law to abolish periodic penalty payments, the Secretary of State lost 1 million euros every week to fake asylum seekers who were indicting. That's a lot of money, but what do you think of the costs involved in providing shelter for all those people, food and daily spending in azc's? How about the free health care these people all get from the Cabinet? Or what about the police deployment due to all the nuisance, all the fighting and stabbing and thefts from stores? What do you think all that costs? And who do you think can afford all that? Indeed: Henk and Ingrid. Mr. Chairman. As if all this weren't bad enough, millions of taxpayers' money are being thrown over the bar. Think of all those left-wing projects such as vlog courses, Arab party nights and I know a lot of what other nonsense municipalities offer to outlawed illegals with a legal obligation to leave. And that legal obligation to leave, Mr. Chairman, is another thing. The legal obligation to leave is often passed by the shredder by this cabinet. Speaking of respect for the rule of law! This cabinet should be careful that the European Commission is not going to try to withhold EU funds because of our disregard for court rulings and therefore for undermining our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. I've been talking about the failing policy. I have talked about how it works, and I have talked about those responsible for this policy and about the costs. I would like to talk about the impact of this policy on the people of the country, because this shameless pro-migration policy is not without consequences for many of our fellow countrymen. Look at the nuisances that asylum seekers cause, whether they are azc's in Budel, Gilze en Rijen, Ter Apel, Harderwijk, Bloemendaal, Westerwolde, Emmen, Overloon, Echt, Susteren, Nijmegen, Amsterdam, Oisterwijk, Ommen. I can go on like this for a while. I have here a whole list of places where asylum seekers from azc's are being harassed. On and around almost every azc throughout the Netherlands there are problems with theft, intimidation of women, violence and fighting and there are other nuisances because asylum seekers look inside people, sleep in gardens and so on. Anyone who is still trying to convince the public that it is just a small group of nuisances knows that he is lying very loudly. These aren't small groups anymore, and these aren't bullshit. Theft, rape, attempted murder, the homosexual co-inhabitant of an azc pouring boiling water, intimidating Christian asylum seekers. And then another COA that blocked gay and lesbian dating apps. It can't be any crazier. It's running out of spigates. And what did our Secretary of State do? It has appointed a number of goat woollen socks officials to harass illegal immigrants by telephone. Her last achievement is a list of 70 action points, actions that could have already been taken, but never taken. The only thing that shows a list of 70 points is that the cabinet is trying to radiate decisiveness. A huge disappointment, especially considering that the PVV only needs three points to solve the problem. Here he comes. One. Close your borders. Two. Picking up trouble suits and illegals, locking them up and shutting them down. Three. All lucky seekers return to the country of origin or to their own region. On the other hand, this cabinet is not doing anything to deal with this mass migration crisis. Scared if they're before the election, they're just gonna let it all happen. The VVD desinformation machine is working overtime to inform the people whether or not they are using state media about the effectiveness and handling of nuisance and crime. Meanwhile, the VVD signs the Marrakesh Migration Pact. You know, that pact that would supposedly make countries take back their illegals. All we had to do was look at the case of Morocco to see how this pact did not work there. Almost no one is being forced back to Morocco by this cabinet. Where the pact does work, it can be seen from the influx, which is unprecedentedly high despite the Chinese virus. I argued it before. That influx is over 2,000 a month. The Dutch have to stay at home and are not allowed to travel abroad, but nepasile seekers come in with hundreds of them a week. This unhindered influx means that the azc's, the asylum-seekers' centres, are packed and that municipalities will soon be put under pressure again or will be obliged to take care of these asylum-seekers. And what is the solution of the cabinet? It's not stopping the influx, it's helping asylum seekers move into a social housing facility faster. Over 5,000 homes are being withdrawn from the rental market this year, and more than 27,000 homes should be given priority to asylum seekers in 2021. The Dutchman who has been on the waiting list for many years is once again the victim of this "way with us" policy. It's a hell of a scandal. So this cabinet is only making the situation worse. Instead of deporting people, hordes of people are allowed in. Instead of saying "up to here and no further," the cabinet is about to accept even more migration legislation from Brussels. I am referring, of course, to the European Commission's new migration pact, a terrible bundle of binding legislative proposals, all of which involve unelected Brussels bureaucrats on how to organise our admission and expulsion policy here in the Netherlands. It will not surprise you, but there will be no expulsions in these legislative proposals. Of authorisations, on the other hand, all the more. There is no limit whatsoever on how many asylum seekers, illegal immigrants and low-skilled migrant workers will be admitted under these new EU plans. And what is even more dangerous is that the European Union is about to decide how many illegals and asylum seekers we need to take in. When there is a country that thinks it is in crisis or the European Commission believes that the EU still needs some low-skilled migrants, the state of emergency can be declared unilaterally. And then the mechanism in which the European Commission determines how many migrants and asylum seekers we have to accept will come into force. This is not only about people who have the chance to be considered refugees, but also about illegal migrants, where it is already clear in advance that they have no right and will not be allowed to stay in the EU. So the EU's new policy is to legalise illegal immigration, and so on paper pretending that the problem does not exist. But these problems do exist, and they do need solutions; they do not need to be watered down and watered down. The PVV has several and perfectly implementable solutions. I have already indicated to you how we could wash the little pig called Morocco. Now I will explain how the PVV would like to tackle the problem of mass immigration. If we really want to deal with the problems, we must first stop bringing in new asylum seekers or illegal migrants. It may sound familiar to you, but mopping with the tap open simply doesn't work. And that crane, it's currently wide open. So stop letting new people in. Then we have to clean up in the Netherlands itself. As far as the PVV is concerned, every asylum seeker is sent back to or the country of origin, or Belgium or Germany, because that is where they all come across the border, and so they were safe before they decided to travel to the Netherlands. There is therefore no longer any question of dangerous flights, and economic motives must never be rewarded with residence permits in the Netherlands. So we have to start to stop allowing asylum applications in the Netherlands. And then the situation with the Syrians. Syria is largely safe again and, according to the cabinet, IS has no more areas under control. There is therefore no reason for Syrians to stay here in the Netherlands. So these people can go back and help rebuild their once beautiful country. If we take this decision now, we can send back 44,000 Syrians who are currently all occupying a social housing facility or a place in an asylum-seekers' centre. This makes tens of thousands of places available for our elderly people, who would like to live in lush environments. Or places for all those young people whose lives are on pause because they can't find a home, thanks to this cabinet policy to give asylum seekers priority to housing in social housing. So a win-win for the Syrians: back to your homeland, with your own language, culture, habits and food. And a win-win for our elderly and young people, for which beautiful and affordable living space is available. And then we need a solution for all those people who are illegally staying in the Netherlands who cause nuisance and crime. I've ripped off a tip of the veil before in my text. That solution is simple. Not 70 points of the "old wine in new bags" type, but a simple, clear, realistic and feasible solution to deal with nuisance and illegality, namely: picking up, securing and deporting illegal immigrants and criminal aliens. Success guaranteed with this three-stage rocket from the PVV. And finally, Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps at the heart of where this cabinet policy goes so wrong, and that is the position of the Dutch citizen in this whole story. Put that Dutchman back on one, let their rights prevail over those of people who come here only for economic gain. Make exceptions in favour of that Dutchman, instead of constantly making exceptions in favour of illegal migrants and asylum seekers. Reason from what is important for the Netherlands, stop mass immigration and let the Netherlands be the Netherlands again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr President, thank you. A bit of a sour contribution from the colleagues of the PVV. Normally it's from those happy people... We have heard Mr Van Dijk speak in a previous AO about the devolution theory and we have seen his colleagues do so in the First Chamber. Actually, he sums that up now. He warns of another people. He warns of people who do not naturally belong here in the Netherlands; you have to send them away. We know that his party wants Muslims not to be able to live together here. If you have two passports, if we, you and I, commit an offense, then we have to leave the country. That's actually what he's saying. Does Mr Van Dijk know what this population theory led to in the 1930s?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u38	If Mr Azarkan van DENK had listened carefully to my text, Mr Azarkan would know exactly what I meant. And what I have meant is that the European Union is in favour of this policy in which we are going to replace the ageing of our population with people from outside. And we have seen where they lead: asylum seekers' centres that are overcrowded, violent outbursts, nuisances, crime, the huge costs involved. Well, I understand the frame Mr. Azarkan is trying to push the PVV, but I would ask Mr. Azarkan to look into his own bosom instead of throwing unfounded accusations our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u39	Unfortunately, these are not unfounded accusations. We know that the language that Wilders speaks has been taken over by Breivik, the language that warns others who are going to take over here in the Netherlands, for people of foreign cultures. That's literally in Breivik's manifesto. Seventy-seven young people shot, 30 times the name Wilders is in it. I know the PVV is also looking at scientific literature these days. Dr. Bart Jan Spruyt, self conservative, says: Wilders is indirectly responsible. We also saw it last year with Tarrant in Christchurch. Exactly the same lyrics. He said: I have gone around Europe, I see what is happening there and what, among other things, the PVV warns about. This is extremely dangerous rhetoric. I would like to ask Mr Van Dijk of the PVV to distance himself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u40	I'm sorry, but we've never, ever, associated ourselves with Breivik and other terrorist attacks. This is some serious bullshit. I find it rather insane to turn this kind of accusations our way, because you know what it does: people are threatened, our party leader needs to be protected for years because of your supporters. I'd rather be worried about that. The comparison with terror attacks by deranged religious lunatics is far from my point of view. The PVV has nothing to do with that. The problem I raised relates to the unlimited influx of illegal migrants, of people who come here for economic reasons. Mr Azarkan van DENK can try to pull all kinds of conspiracy theories and I know a lot about the hair to push us into that corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This year we celebrated 75 years of freedom with each other. I realized that not only my generation, but also my parents' generation, had only known peace. We have to go all the way back to my grandfather and grandma's generation to know what it's like to live in an unfree, unsafe country. So the last generation that felt that is my grandfather's. We could simply build our lives at a young age, but he was sent into war as a conscript in his twenties and saw comrades, also twenty-something, dying there. My grandmother waited at home in suspense to see if he'd come back alive, my grandmother, who couldn't go to college at the time, because that wasn't customary for girls. I remember when I used to think of that as very special stories to hear from my grandmother and grandmother. Now, now that I'm an adult, I realize even more that the freedom I have, that I can stand here today, is a freedom they didn't have. That I may say what I think, that there are equal opportunities for men and women, I say today on the international day against violence against women, that we may love whom we want, gay and straight: that is freedom. That my colleague, Mr Dilan, was going to say that again today, from a country where her family could not have been freed, came to Holland, became a Member of Parliament and fought every day for our ideals: that is freedom. I'm proud of that. Our security and our freedom are worth defending. But unfortunately, there are others who want to undermine our free way of life. Unfortunately, that has become painfully clear again over the last few months. Terror attacks in several European countries. Beheaded a teacher in France. People who thought they were safe and peaceful in a church, but would never come out alive again. The free word under pressure. Teachers who showed a cartoon and are therefore threatened. Other teachers who may not even dare now. Politicians who can't be safe across the street. The wretched thing is that some of the perpetrators and some of the bereaved came here just because they were looking for security and freedom. It was the reason to leave their home country and apply for asylum in the EU. Others came here looking for work and a good life, but once here some of those people suddenly question those same freedoms, like a kind of freedom à la carte. But that's not how it works, Mr. Chairman. In order to protect that freedom, especially against those who want to threaten it and who can threaten our free way of living together, we must guard our borders. Figuratively, we have discussed this with each other a lot over the last few weeks, but certainly also literally. We must also discuss asylum and migration policy in the budget debate today. We must draw a line around those countries with which we share our values. To do so, in order to protect the common borders of fortress Europe much more effectively, a fundamentally new asylum system is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u43	I don't know if you had the paragraph yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u44	Maybe I can finish this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u45	That is good, and Mr Van Dijk will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u46	After World War II, our grandfathers and grandmothers rightly said that we must always provide shelter to people fleeing a war. That thought supports the VVD; let me say that very clearly today. But the Refugee Convention in which this is laid down has begun to lead its own lives. Instead of offering protection to the most vulnerable, in one place as close to the war as possible, to their own homeland and to their own culture, it has become a free pass for smugglers to drop people off at the gates of the EU, risking their own lives and a cynical earning model. With a full Lampedusa, a full Lesbos and full Canary Islands as a result. We, as free and safe countries, would have signed up to take care of them all, wouldn't we? No, Mr. Chairman, that's not true. Yes, everyone is entitled to shelter if he or she flees war and violence. But that does not mean automatically in Europe. Nor does it mean that everyone should be allowed to choose a country of destination. As far as the VVD is concerned, refugees stay as close to their homes as possible, so that they can quickly return to their homeland after the war. People who come here for another reason and have no right to stay must leave. It can't be that you wouldn't have to leave here if you're done and we shouldn't have to shut you down. Unfortunately, people always point to international agreements why none of this is possible. This weekend in the newspaper a portrait of Moroccan street gangs who live here in the Netherlands as asylum seekers, while they were already safe in their home country. That is not what our asylum system is for. We need to be able to change this. Not only by looking at the Refugee Convention, but also, above all, at the EU's interpretation of it, as the Donner Commission rightly told us recently. The VVD calls for a completely new European asylum system, in which people are receiving reception not here but in the region. If there is no window here where you can report spontaneously, it is not attractive for even more people who want to take advantage of our hospitality. In this way, we can choose who can come here on invitation and reduce the chance that unwanted criminals, such as IS fighters, will reach our country via the asylum stream. This is not a harsh, but rather a social story. It makes people stop putting their children on those boats to reach a Greek island. It puts an end to overcrowded camps, burning out of desperation. We will only stop these degrading circumstances by setting much clearer limits as the EU. That's what we're gonna do. Fortunately, this Secretary of State is also committed to this. We encourage her, as the Netherlands, to make this new system truly stricter and fairer in the negotiations on a new European asylum system. We have already discussed this extensively with each other, and I would like to encourage her to do so again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u47	Yes. I see that Mr Emiel van Dijk, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Voordewind and Mr Jasper van Dijk wish to intervene. Mr. Emiel van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u48	This is, of course, the story we hear every time, over and over again. The election's coming up. We only have a few months to go and then suddenly the right-wing talk comes out at the VVD. But keep in mind: it's that VVD that's been on the buttons for ten years. Who could have changed something for ten years. Who for ten years has let in 750,000 non-Western migrants. Who in ten years has let in 2 million other Western migrants. And now this VVD suddenly comes up with "we have to close the borders," with a mini-Schengen and with "if necessary we close the Dutch borders." That's completely the electorate's way of looking at it. I wonder: isn't the VVD very ashamed to turn off that same string just before the election every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u49	The VVD has worked hard in recent years, not only this period, but also the period before that, to do everything we can to keep our country free and safe. By taking the lead in Europe to get a Turkey deal done, when there was an asylum and migration crisis in 2015. By ensuring that there are not huge numbers of........ much higher than what has already been mentioned...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u50	750,000 in ten years!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mrs Becker has the floor. You'll have the opportunity in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD didn't just do that. We have also made our asylum system stricter and fairer in the Netherlands, for example by tightening the sliding scale. That is an official term for the ability to take people's status more quickly if they are guilty of criminal behavior. We have ensured that false hope has been removed at the end of the procedure, so that people do not pile up. We have made sure that discretionary power has been abolished. We stopped with the children's pardon. The Secretary of State was the first to say that he was going to receive troublesome asylum seekers in a closed setting and that otherwise they would no longer have the right to receive them. We have merged the interviews to get the asylum procedure even faster and even more stringent. I can go on for a while, but unfortunately Mr Emiel van Dijk is not really interested in the answer. It seems as if Mr.Emiel van Dijk has some sort of VVD-corvee, because he reacts every time the VVD comes up with a seriously substantiated plan. He knows that if it's okay with me, because I'm in a lot of debates with him. I'm thinking about what we can do better. Of course we won't all settle that tomorrow, but I promise you this is a realistic story. The PVV only wants to pretend that everything that the VVD does is only done before the elections, when I hear from them alone that we should leave the European Union. Do you have any idea what that means for your voters, for jobs, for security? Do not come here now saying that we do not accept our responsibilities!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u53	All I hear from the VVD is talk, talk, talk: we work hard, we try, we do sister and stuff, our Secretary of State has said we're going to do this. But nothing's gonna happen. 750,000 non-Western immigrants have been admitted to VVD in ten years. Bed, bath and bread for outlaws: we're going to catch them. Illegality punishable? No, we're gonna throw that off the table. We're not gonna criminalize illegality. Do you want me to keep going? Yes, I will. Azc's filling up. We give rentals priority to status holders. Closing the borders? No, we are not, because Europe is not allowed to do that. And then, this morning, they're gonna come up with a news report that they're gonna close the borders. What a gross hypocrisy of the VVD! VVD-corvee? I'm sorry, but all the lies, all the misinformation and all the things the VVD keeps calling out to the voters, they just need to be named. Then I'm on that microphone to emphasize that and to bring those lies to light. This just can't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr Emiel van Dijk, of course, is about his own input, but I think it's just a shame. We should have a fundamental and concrete debate today on what we can do to improve the migration system. That your whole contribution then is about another party and what that party would not do well, namely the VVD, I find testifying to some sort of emptiness and lack of own ideas. When the criminalization could be arranged illegality, the PVV ran away from the Catshuis! We would have liked to have done it. Unfortunately, we do not have a majority for it at the moment. You do need responsible parties who are willing to work constructively together. I invite the PVV to that, but we haven't seen them yet. I haven't heard any other viable proposals apart from a nexit. I wouldn't recommend it to the voters of the PVV either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u55	I understand perfectly what Mrs. Becker is trying to do here. With a diversion, she tries to emphasize our position on the next. But it's not about us, it's not about the meeting at the Catshuis. It's what the VVD does. The VVD is lying. They're professional liars. Every time, just before the elections: we are going to do this, we are going to be strict, asylum seekers out, stopping migrants and closing borders. Sometimes I look at it and wonder if Mrs. Becker has access to my computer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u56	Can I have some silence in the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u57	The only difference between the VVD and the PVV is that we still stand by our word and that we stand by what we say. We would stick to it, unlike the VVD, which has immediately thrown illegality off the table. Then you can't blame us or the Catshouse. The VVD threw illegality off the table, brought in 750,000 non-Western migrants. Anyone who's finished is welcome to stay here. Criminal asylum seekers are offered bed, bath and bread. Not one of them gets thrown out of the country. And in the meantime, tough in the media, we're gonna have to put things in order and we're gonna take care of things, if necessary by closing our borders. Really, you should be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. I haven't heard anything new. I would like to invite Mr. Emiel van Dijk to look more seriously at our plans. In fact, without doing much damage to the Netherlands by leaving the European Union immediately, we can certainly gain more control over our own borders. We have written down a very serious plan for this. I regret that the PVV needs all these terms of strength. I'd rather talk about the content. Oh, I have more interruptions. I was about to move on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u59	No, I have Mr Van Ojik, Mr Voordewind, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Grotehuizen and Mr Azarkan. First Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u60	There is a great deal of interest in Mrs Becker's opinion. Her praise for freedom is very appealing to me. The way she put it, it's great. But if she's going to talk about the UN Refugee Convention, something's going wrong for me. The essence of the UN Refugee Convention, in which, as far as I know, the Netherlands participates, is that you have the right to apply for asylum and seek protection in every country that has signed the UN Refugee Convention. Mrs Becker allows you to apply for asylum anywhere, especially in the region, if you do not do so in the Netherlands. That's how you listen to it. In fact, she says that the Netherlands must get away from the UN Refugee Treaty. Is that right? Does the VVD claim here that the Netherlands withdraws its signature under the UN Refugee Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u61	We agreed in the government agreement that the UN Refugee Convention should be reviewed. That's what we argued with the CDA. I hear Mr. Emiel van Dijk screaming in between, but I go on quietly. So we got that in the coalition agreement together with the CDA. That was not for nothing, but precisely because the interpretation of the UN Refugee Convention that has arisen over the years is that asylum seekers should be able to choose their own safe destination. As far as we are concerned, that is not the intention. The intention is to stay close to home in the surroundings, on your continent, where you are safe. When it comes to countries where there is war around the European Union, we as the European Union are also dependent on our own continent to provide that security there. I think it is a great risk if people fleeing a war do not go to the first safe country, but choose the most prosperous country for their future. I understand very well that people want that, but it is not possible for all prosperous societies, such as the Netherlands, to have these pressures. We have asked the Donner Committee to investigate that. The committee has said that you could adapt the UN Refugee Convention to that, but that does not make much sense, because it has now been incorporated into European legislation. That is why I proposed today in my plan that, while you are negotiating a European asylum system, we should also see what might be needed in the future to adapt treaties and advocate an opt-out when it comes to European regulation and the UN Refugee Convention, in order to achieve the objective I have just mentioned. We need to do that now, so we can, if we need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u62	My question was, I believe, simpler than Mrs Becker's answer suggests. 97% of refugees are currently being received outside Europe. We do about 2% to 3% throughout Europe. Is Mrs. Becker saying she wants to bring that number down? Does it want 98% or 99% of the world's flow of refugees to be absorbed in the countries that are often already so vulnerable, which already account for 96% or 97%? She can find that, but then she will have to get the Dutch signature from the UN Refugee Treaty. Fortunately, with international treaties, it is not the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the Group of the Green Left or the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that decides what is to be done on the basis of that treaty, but we have all agreed to do so. We have agreed that for those seeking protection there is the right to apply for asylum in the Netherlands. I would like to hear from Mrs Becker whether the VVD stands for the right to apply for asylum in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u63	No, because I do not agree that this is the core of the UN Refugee Convention. That's exactly why I'm asking for those analyses. I know that Mr Van Ojik thinks that the Netherlands should bring more people here. We're not in favour of that as a VVD. Apart from the question of'more or less', it is mainly a question of control. Since everyone can apply for this procedure here, two thirds of our asylum population currently has no right to asylum. People who already had a lot of problems in Morocco can therefore decide to go to the Netherlands, to apply for asylum here and to come to the shelter, and from there to show criminal behavior. That is not how the asylum system is meant. And if we make sure that we decide who is really entitled to asylum at the external borders of Europe, then you have much more control. And that is the beginning of a very important solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u64	I read the AD this morning, too. Of course, we know Mr Malik Azmani's old plan and in the AD I now saw a new plan by Mrs Becker. She actually says: that migration pact is going to take a while. She's not that excited about it either. Last week, together with the CDA, she supported a motion from the Forum for Democracy that we must miss today, I think, in order not to continue even the rescue operations in the Mediterranean. Now she comes up with a plan, in which she says it will take a very long time and that in the meantime we have to see for ourselves how we can get to a mini-Schengen and if necessary also be willing to close our own borders. Does she not think that this undermines the efforts of her own Secretary of State? He says: I am glad that there is now a migration pact. It says: you can differ on a number of points of view, but at least we are going to see in Europe whether we can get support for this plan. Doesn't Mrs Becker think that this is undermining the efforts of her own Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u65	No, I even think it's an incentive. If you, as a country, have seriously explored the possibilities if this does not succeed, then it can encourage everyone to take a serious look at a well-functioning European asylum system. We don't depend on Brussels here. Brussels, and the Member States, should not think: well, as long as there is no solution, all countries are at the mercy of what is happening in Brussels. We also need our own process in order. And while the talks are taking place in Brussels, we must also do something here. I certainly still have faith in the talks in Brussels. You referred to my colleague Azmani's plan. I also see elements of this coming back, such as making agreements with countries outside the European Union and more reception in the region. I think that's great. Only, we shouldn't bet on one horse. We need to protect our society in every possible way, so we also need to have other plans in the closet if it is to be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u66	I'm just trying to understand where this plan is different from the Azmani plan. I read here that the Dutch borders should also be closed and that people should actually be taken care of in their own region. Mr Van Ojik has already said that this is what kind of a thing is it? 95% is already happening. But is it exactly the same plan as Mr Azmani had? He said: 'Boys, even the external borders must be closed and one has to be taken care of in one's own region. Is it a repeat of Azmani's plan? If so, it is a real undermining of the migration pact. Because then you actually tell all those European officials, including the Commissioner, who have been working for years to do this, that they have to stop working, because you really want the external borders to be closed and that all the people who are being picked up in the Mediterranean are being sent back to what is it? Where are they going? Libya or Syria. Can you explain that again? 'Cause I don't understand anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u67	No, Mr Voordewind does not understand that very well, but that undoubtedly depends on my own explanation. So I'm glad to be able to explain it again. If I may say so, as far as we are concerned, negotiations are currently taking place in the European Union to make the ideas of the Azmani plan a reality. It is about his idea to decide at the European external border who is or is not entitled to asylum and, more importantly, about his idea of receiving many more people fleeing war and violence in the region, by making agreements with countries outside. The European Commission has finally recognised this for the first time, and that is a huge profit. So we should definitely do that. My plan is something wrong with that. I say, in the meantime, while we pursue that, have your own country and your own homework in order. Mr Voordewind also knows that it may take some time with 26 Member States. So make sure that you are ready with other countries in the Benelux for a mini-Schengen and for a grip on your own borders, to prevent us from being flooded and make it appear uncontrolled to us as a society. Mr Voordewind should not want that either. Can I say one more tiny thing, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u68	Well, a very small thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u69	In his first interruption, Mr Voordewind claimed that last week the CDA and the VVD supported a motion from the Forum for Democracy to completely stop NGO activities in the Mediterranean. That motion was nothing other than to say that NGO activities can sometimes also encourage human trafficking. In certain specific cases, the judge may see this as a criminal offence at the moment, and it must remain so. It's not necessarily not a criminal offence. That was the motion, and I actually wanted to correct it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u70	I really think Mrs Becker is a talented MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u71	Now you're gonna have to look out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u72	She gives nice interviews in the paper and probably gets a nice spot on the list. We're all gonna see that. Only that flirting just with the PVV did I find a little less, that invitation to come to the table to talk. I would ask you to agree with your party leader, because Mr Rutte wanted to look to the left. I thought that was much more sensible. But now I'm going to the content. Mrs. Becker has a lot of plans. This morning she was in the paper again. You'd almost think, "Is she in the opposition or something?" But it's not. She's with a party that's been in power for years. That is why I miss the reflection on the asylum policy of this cabinet and previous cabinets, because there is not very much of this policy. There are major delays with the IND and the return policy is completely failing. Mrs Becker referred to the very impressive article that was in the NRC this weekend. That article also states: "Spain and France are able to bring their people back to their asylum seekers, who have been subjected to nuisances". The Netherlands does not succeed at all. How is that possible, Mrs. Becker? You're at the helm. What's going on in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u73	I wasn't until the first one and a half A4's. So I can give a faint answer by saying: the reflection will come. I also just told the PVV that it is a very complex file. You really can't fix everything you want tomorrow. Some things aren't working either, but I can say here with my head held high that our goal is getting a little closer. Why can't we send out processed asylum seekers back to Morocco, for example? Well, that's complicated. This has nothing to do with the will or strength of this Secretary of State, but with the present diplomatic relations between Morocco and the Netherlands. If the Netherlands criticises human rights in Morocco, you can say all sorts of things about why we should or should not do so, then that plays a role in Morocco's willingness to talk about other dossiers. Morocco has taken that attitude. Then you can all say that it must be resolved tomorrow, but that takes a lot of work. I have said that the VVD is also prepared to use other instruments than this Secretary of State to put more pressure on Morocco once in a while. What do you do about finance and trade? As an example, I would like to mention the instruments of Minister Kaag, such as visa policy. Finally. You need to stop facilitating illegality. This kind of people who have to go back, you don't have to take them anywhere. This week was in the news what happened in Amsterdam. $3 million has been thrown over the beam. None of them illegally left the country, but they were warm in the shelter. We need to stop that right now. So there are plenty of solutions. That's what I'm going to continue to argue for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u74	Mrs Becker can say a lot, but the return policy in the Morocco dossier is of course one of the weakest points of this Secretary of State. I like her personally, but she's completely failing here. Does Mrs. Becker dare to admit that? Last year, when we stood here, it came out that the return policy to Morocco was completely unsuccessful, failed and that the Secretary of State was not welcome to the Moroccan authorities. Today we haven't made any progress. Do you recognise that this simply does not work out and that we in the Chamber must take steps to put pressure on the Moroccan authorities immediately to take back their nationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'm just as frustrated about it as Mr. Jasper Van Dijk. When I read an article this weekend about all those criminal Moroccans who can do their thing here from the asylum system, I would rather put them in jail and shut them down today rather than tomorrow. But we can't put someone we don't have a laissez pass for on a plane. I know that anti-legal ideas like this do live with the PVV, but otherwise, I think everyone in this Chamber thinks that you can't just do this. Then there must be another solution. It's really not this Secretary of State. It's the cabinet's responsibility. We must be willing to use the instruments of the whole cabinet, including those of other rulers, as I have just said. Whatever we have to do is make Europe a fist. We worked together on that. Spain and Belgium do indeed have a deal with Morocco, so Morocco is playing us a bit against each other as Member States. That is why Minister Blok has arranged for a visa code to exist in Europe, so that we can jointly say that sanctions will be imposed if one of our countries is blackmailed in this way and not cooperated. For example, we can no longer issue visas. I hope that's what we're gonna do very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u76	Then there is Mr Groothuizen and then there is Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u77	Something interesting is happening. In most cases, it is quite difficult to reach agreement in the Chamber on migration, but Mrs Becker is able, at least, to allow the Chamber to oppose her proposals unanimously. I suspect the Secretary of State will see a similar picture tomorrow when we discuss the results of her work at the IND. That's interesting. If you look at the response to the plans, you can see that there is a lot of negative response. The international press showed up on it, too. That is a VVD trick, a campaign trick: we come with Moroccans and migrants, because the elections are coming. That is a pity, because the debate calls for a much more serious debate. Mrs Becker is now proposing to close the borders in a sort of mini-Schengen. That's what she wants. There are two ways to do that. You can say Mr Van Ojik also mentioned 'we are closing the borders, but it is still possible to apply for asylum'. Germany did that at some point for a while. When a lot of people arrived, they introduced border controls, but it was still possible to apply for asylum. That seems to me to be compliance with the Refugee Convention. You can also say "we don't do that anymore." I just want to know from Mrs Becker what her proposal is now. Does she say "I want border control, but the right to asylum remains"? Or does she say "no, I want to withdraw the right to apply for asylum"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u78	I find it remarkable how Mr Groothuizen says here in a few sentences 'this is a campaign trick; we are all opposed to this', but then wants a substantive answer from me. Because either you see it as an easy campaign trick and not as a serious proposal, or you see it as a serious proposal. Apparently, he's doing the latter, because he's asking a serious question about it. I will therefore take this issue seriously. Look, I think we need to ensure that, in a very plighted crisis in which our country is threatened with being flooded by people seeking asylum here, we can close the borders. If you then send out the signal 'you can still get all of us into the asylum procedure', that will not be enough. Of course, what you shouldn't do is say: the border is closed and suffocate; if you report here at the border in the middle of the night, solve it yourself, because we are closed. You have to make sure you have good facilities where you can catch people, where you can see with them where they were safe before and where you can send them back to in order to go in procedure. So we didn't arrange that from today to tomorrow. That is why I am proposing a crisis plan, because when the time comes, we should not have to work out the kind of questions that Mr Groothuizen is asking me now. Then we must have thought about that together. I'm asking the Cabinet to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u79	I always try to have a serious debate on a serious issue. I'm trying to help Mrs Becker with that. But it's weird, isn't it, that you don't have an answer to this essential question when you come up with a proposal? How do you see that? So we're gonna take people in? Can they apply for asylum or can they not? Can they only do that if it is absolutely clear that they have not done so before in another country or if they have very good ground? Then what exactly are the conditions you see for yourself? Surely you cannot call out something that has such incredible implications and then say: I ask the cabinet to work it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u80	No, no, but I didn't say that either. Then Mr Groothuizen did not listen carefully. I have just said that our idea is not that people can all go through an asylum procedure, but that at the border, otherwise we will close the border for nothing. We will be able to send people back to where they were previously safe, to the country of origin, or to a safe country in the region as soon as possible. That's why there's another part of my plan. We should not only do this, we as the Netherlands should also ensure that we agree with third countries outside the European Union on safe reception there and on the withdrawal of people coming from there, so that we do not have to let people in the Netherlands when there is a safe other place they can go back to. That's how I feel about it, and I'm asking the Cabinet today to work it out, so that we can have it ready when we need it. I hope Mr Groothuizen will be able to agree with the principle that, in a crisis, we cannot allow ourselves to be overwhelmed by a huge number of people who do not have a home, no provision, enough care and who, as a country, are incredibly affected, while those people have previously been safe elsewhere. I hope he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr Groothuizen will have his turn. Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u82	It is true that Mrs Becker is a very talented Member of Parliament. I would like to join in that. She is often inspired by the PVV. I notice that what the PVV said a few years ago is often followed up, especially when that happens in times of campaigning and to cover one's own failure, so that it doesn't come out too flashy. I also had a debate here with her predecessor, Mr Azmani. He indicated two years ago: you know, Mr. Azarkan, we have to receive 100% of the refugees in our own region. In that plan, there's no place here for anyone else. Is that right? You spoke warmly, I say through you, Mr President, about your colleague who has come here under difficult circumstances. You're proud of that. But is there room for people like that in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u83	There is no light between what Mr Azmani said and what I said. We see as an ideal asylum system for us that people in the region apply for asylum, in the region where there is war. If there is war in our own region, they should also be able to apply for asylum here. As far as that is not the case, but there is war in another region, people need to apply for asylum there. That does not mean that we say: we are never going to receive a refugee here in the Netherlands. However, we say 'you should not come here spontaneously; we can invite you here when it has been established that you are a real refugee', as we have done with the Turkey deal. The Netherlands was among the top three countries in the European Union that have received Syrian refugees. We take responsibility in the world, but we don't want it to happen to us. We want to get a grip on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u84	That sounds kind of nice, but I can tell from all the debates I have with Mrs Becker that, under that sympathy, she simply has a straight line. She just said: I am proud that the children's pardon has been abolished, and I am proud that virtually no use is made of discretionary powers. She wanted a pat on the back from the PVV on the Moria deal. She said in that consultation: "That the PVV is disappointed! I thought I'd get a sticker from Wilders or something. I've done so great." Where does this harshness come from in order to argue for freedom on these kinds of issues and to speak very big words about them, but simply not to give them to others? You just don't want people coming here. You want to take them all in your own region. You don't want 97%, you want 100% of the people there. Where did that come from? Why can't we help a group of people, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u85	As far as I'm concerned, this is about helping people. The fact that we no longer want a child's pardon and that we do not want discretionary powers with the Secretary of State is not to bully people. That is to prevent people who should have come back to their country of origin from stretching their procedures for so long that there are children who are here at some point ten or fifteen years, without knowing where they stand. They speak the language and become part of a class, but then they are a poignant case because they actually have to go back. That's inhumane. And we hope to avoid that by putting an end to the discretionary power, whereby mayors will write letters to the Secretary of State: please, can you not make sure that one or that one stays? You need to get that out of the system. Not only do I say that, but also the Van Zwol Committee, which has been watching this. This is not a harsh policy, it is a policy that deals with people and treats people fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u86	What Mrs Becker describes is simply the policy of her secretary of state. What Mrs Becker is saying is the policy of the IND, of her Secretary of State. It's discouragement policy. It's left people in uncertainty for years. It's discouragement. Research shows that officials who earn a few thousand euros a month are not scheduled to deal with files, but are allowed to look at Netflix. As a result, this Secretary of State is reluctantly finding out that we do not have to pay EUR 17 million, but EUR 70 million, because the work is not done properly. What Mrs Becker is saying is the policy of the IND: discourage people, long in procedures, often as a state appeal. The result is that you get very poignant cases. When they are created, Mrs Bente Becker says: that is your own fault. That's the upside-down world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u87	No, this is not the IND's policy. I'd still like to stand in front of the IND. This is not conscious policy of the IND. This is an organisation which has had to deal with a lot of political desires, but with too little resources. As a result, the procedures last longer and people are longer in uncertainty. But those are not cases that are stretched by a discretionary power or a children's pardon by five or ten years. We're not talking about that kind of time frame. Mr Azarkan attacks me on how consistent the story of the VVD is to fight for freedom and humanity. I invite Mr Azarkan, if he thinks we should be consistent in doing so, to do so himself. Because if I advocate the freedom of people here to live in migrant communities in safety too, if I advocate, for example, that things such as honor-related and culturally determined violence be punished more severely, I do not find DENK on my side. So I would call ON DENK to think with me on that agenda. And be consistent in defending those freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u88	I understand the reasoning about that mini-Schengen. I think we have heard sounds about this from France and I think we are talking about it for longer: if nothing works at all, you must indeed think about what the future is going to look like. However, I find the time when the VVD comes up with this proposal a little problematic. We are just now looking to see if we can finally make a dent in a package of butter in Europe. And what does the VVD say now, at the most exciting moment to get these negotiations done? "If you can't do it, it's Greece, Italy, Lampedusa, other islands, and you can call it "bag in; we'll close the borders and figure it out." The moment is a little cynical. Does Mrs. Becker recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u89	No, because the message here isn't "suck it up." We had a debate with the Secretary of State about the European asylum system a week or two weeks ago. That was the moment when we made the treatment reservation, precisely to ensure that the Netherlands has a very sharp, good commitment in that discussion. I did not speak about this, because I do not think that this should now be part of the debate on the European asylum system. We have to try to do that. What I call on the Secretary of State today is to explore the alternatives in the Netherlands at the same time, so that we can have them ready if it does not work out in the end or if something happens tomorrow that puts pressure on our country. I therefore hope that Mrs Van Toorenburg will see this need. We have to try this very hard, but we shouldn't bet on one horse. We shouldn't be that naive. That would also not be good for all Dutch people who are worried about what happens if there is a new crisis: are we safe and are we prepared?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u90	But fortunately, that's what's being thought about. I think that thinking about a mini-Schengen has been going on since 2015. Well, then it's not really that new. But what surprises me is that the VVD also says in the plan: if it all doesn't work out, the Netherlands has to make sure that people who have been executed are finally sent back. But let's be honest: this cabinet, this Secretary of State and a VVD Minister for Foreign Affairs did not succeed at all. So how can we suddenly say: yes, then it has to be done; then we will finally do so as the Netherlands itself with all those people in Overloon who are all screaming mad about and which they really want to get rid of in all the municipalities in the Netherlands? Then why didn't this Secretary of State manage to do that? Why does the VVD think that we as the Netherlands can do it on our own? Or does the VVD recognise that we really need Europe's teeth to be bitter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u91	In my view, Mrs Van Toorenburg and I have made it clear that, with regard to the agenda we agreed on in the coalition agreement, more for more, less for less, if the Netherlands were to use all our opportunities to encourage countries to participate in this migration agenda, i.e. development cooperation, landing rights and visas, it was quite clear that the government did not use these instruments to the full, particularly in the field of foreign trade and development cooperation. I therefore believe that there could possibly have been more there than we have achieved so far. I also think it is a good thing that Minister Blok now has that visa code in Europe, but what if you do not come to an agreement in Europe with regard to a country such as Morocco? Are you going to give up as the Netherlands, so it's just not gonna work to send people back to Morocco? Not as far as I'm concerned. I therefore believe that we should continue to work on this bilateral agenda, as it is called with a difficult term: not only through the European path, but also when the Netherlands itself make agreements and use all your instruments and all your strength to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u92	I think we should be honest. Mrs Becker is now pretending that this visa code will allow us to stop issuing visas. It doesn't say that at all. In the very, very, very, very case, I think we can postpone it for three months. So let's be honest. Everything we have discussed with each other, of course, also has VVD ministers on the table. If we are going to call now that we, as the Netherlands ourselves, are really doing everything we can to send back all the asylum seekers who have been processed, then that is really a bit too little, too late. Please, that could have been better by now. Or tell me honestly: the Netherlands simply can't do that. When we see that, we should not really blow up European cooperation in this way, as a sort of test balloon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u93	No, Mr President, because what Mrs Van Toorenburg is doing now is really not doing justice to the proposal. I also regret that one thing is being picked out that Mrs Van Toorenburg does not think was successful and that is why the proposal would not be good. What I am saying here today, and I acknowledge precisely, is that some of the routes we are trying will not immediately lead to results, for example, the European route, and that we are also trying to do things that then run counter to inability in a Refugee Convention or other treaties. Then we should not accept that as a VVD, but say: we should do and-and-do. So we must work both on the European asylum system and try to get mini-Schengen to work with other countries, and we must be able to control our own borders and we must make agreements with third countries. We must use all our instruments to do this. How's it going tomorrow? No. Is it perfect? No. But I refuse to tell the simple story to people that the PVV does, as if it could all be solved tomorrow by a nexit. I don't think that's the answer either. So I invite everyone to think with me today, and I am also willing to think with other ideas, as long as they bring closer to a stricter and fairer asylum and migration policy. That is a serious proposal on my part. It has nothing to do with test balloons and nothing to do with elections. It has everything to do with the determination we need on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u94	I have difficulty with two elements in the story or, in fact, with two assumptions underlying the proposal. The first is to present it in the newspaper of "if we're in charge, we're gonna do this." But the VVD is the boss. The VVD has a secretary of state for this file. The VVD has a foreign minister. The VVD has a prime minister. Then I think it's a little cheap to call in the newspaper the image of "if we're in charge, we're gonna take care of this." Then my question is: why haven't you taken care of it in the last four years? The second point is more substantive. That is the point that the region is doing too little and that there is too little reception in the region. The claim that we do not now have the facilities and the means to take people in. My question to Mrs Becker is: does Lebanon have the facilities and the means to accommodate all those Syrians? How many Syrians are there in Lebanon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u95	I have just indicated what the VVD, under government responsibility, has done not only in this cabinet period, but also in the previous one, to work towards a stricter and fairer asylum policy and what it has done. We have also worked together in this area, VVD and PvdA, for example, to get that Turkey deal closer. So it's not like the VVD is just coming up with ideas and hasn't realized anything. The VVD has always worked hard on it in Cabinets, but we also live in a coalition country. So the asylum and migration policy currently being implemented by this cabinet is not the ideal story as the VVD Group would see it for itself. So it's not surprising at all that I tell a VVD story and make a VVD proposal in a budget treatment from the VVD. It doesn't always have to be one-on-one government policy. That's right to come up with new ideas from the Chamber. I think we should all do that, especially as coalition groups. Then there is your short second question, because that saves you a second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u96	Yeah, right, about Lebanon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u97	We certainly need to help countries like Lebanon. So I do not shy away from the international responsibility that the Netherlands also has to ensure that reception in the region can also be offered. That is why we have also made sure that we are going to use much more money for development aid for that reception in the region. This has now become more the agenda of Minister Kaag thanks to the negotiations of the VVD in this coalition agreement. So that's not some kind of free pronunciation. That also requires responsibilities. We must do this as the Netherlands, and we must do it through the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u98	I think it is a little free if it is assumed that there is insufficient reception in the region. The vast majority of refugees are taken care of in the region. That's the point I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u99	Yeah, that's got... Well, well, Mr. Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u100	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. You have proposed six questions per group. I can tell that's a little tight after all. I would like to propose eight questions per group. I understand your wish to be brief. I look around a bit to the colleagues and I have the impression that there is some support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u101	Yeah, I felt the same way. It's okay. Per group, not per spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u102	Oh, I thought there was one more question, but that's fine with me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u103	Yeah, that's what I thought. All right, I suggest that you continue, because you have 14 minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u104	Yes, Mr President, because I wanted to start with the launch of a whole new idea, namely a national migration plan. I don't know if it's necessary anymore, but I'll do it anyway. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we need to do more, because getting 26 countries in line requires a long time. In the meantime, the Netherlands remains a wanted destination for migrants. Especially in a possible new crisis, this can lead to unverifiable flows of asylum seekers. That is why the VVD not only wants the EU to work with a good plan, but also to have a national migration plan. I want us to know exactly where the border lies for us, so that we can see with our own plan which countries agree with us, so that we can be partners in a possible mini-Schengen, a group of strong Member States that monitor their external borders while trade remains intact. If that fails, the VVD wants our country to be able to close its borders, to introduce border controls and to ban migrants if the situation so requires. International crisis regulation offers this space, but the question is whether we can actually do it in such a situation. For example, we need to be able to scale up our own border guard and police force quickly, and we need to prepare for that now. The VVD also wants a national plan to describe how the Netherlands can make agreements on irregular migration, reception in the region and the return of migrants to other countries. As far as we are concerned, it is not a taboo to use the foreign trade and OS agenda for this. I assume that the cabinet will also see the added value of having our own commitment sharp. If not, I will consider tabling a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. By having that commitment sharp, the Netherlands opts for a realistic course. We negotiate in Brussels, but we also have our own homework in order. As long as the European asylum system is not strict enough, we must be able to protect ourselves better. Because not every world citizen who wants a safer or better life is welcome in the Netherlands. We should not just say that, but also be able to make it happen when it comes to it. Mr. Chairman. For those who do come in here, we must ensure that he or she can only stay if he or she really is a refugee and is willing to participate fully. I know that this is being worked hard in the asylum chain, under very difficult circumstances. I would also like to dwell on this today, with the diligent IND staff, with the people of the COA, who also continue to do their work in corona time but sometimes feel unsafe, with the men and women of the AVIM, who are dealing with difficult target groups but continue to work for what we have agreed with each other. And we have to look at ourselves for the work of these men and women. Well, there's the requested reflection. There will certainly be more today, because politics has not always made it easy for these organisations. I call the IND, for which the funding was a fight year after year, a plan to make the asylum chain more flexible while the current work is not yet in order. Stand on it. Mr. Chairman. How does the Secretary of State see the future of the asylum chain and its staff? Are they adequately equipped? Can the Secretary of State give the Chamber a realistic schedule showing when the IND is in order and the backlogs have been eliminated? Is she going to be okay with the existing resources? When can the Court expect the legislative proposal to put an end to the periodic penalty payments? And also important for the future functioning of the IND: when will the hearing be merged? Secondly, we need to address the increase in the number of repeated applications, in order to relieve the burden on all these organisations, but also to prevent long-term illegal stays. Can the task force of the IND look at this? Is it true that taking treatment within eight days is rare at the moment? I am genuinely afraid that the repeated application, due to its lack of judgment, is now a serious option for people to have longer reception. The VVD also wants to stop repeated applications for persons with an entry ban. We've talked to the Secretary of State about that before. Did she find out if that's possible? And if not, can they at least wait for the verdict on such a repeated application in detention? The VVD also wants to do something about the delay and the workload caused by asylum lawyers at every stage almost as a standard procedure for appealing again and again. Are we obliged to do so when it comes to actual actions, or is that a headline on European legislation? And if so, can it come off? What does the Secretary of State think of the Swiss model, whereby asylum lawyers are no longer paid for hours, but for the whole process? In any case, this means that there is no longer any perverse incentive to extend the procedures. Thirdly, it should not want to leave or lie about your motives not pay off. But sometimes it still does. I mention, for example, the hundreds of Ugandans who claimed to be gay in order to stay here. Does the Secretary of State know by now whether making a declaration can be an effective means for people we unfortunately cannot send back? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of not wanting to leave, return is almost always possible if someone wants to go back, as the Van Zwol Committee showed. And that is why illegality must be as unattractive as possible. By facilitating stay in illegality, people continue to grasp every straw, no matter how small, to stay here. This ultimately undermines the acceptance of the real refugees. My motion for a plan of action against illegality was adopted before the summer. Can the Secretary of State indicate when this can be carried out? In the meantime, for example, in a city like Amsterdam, millions are being thrown away from a shelter from which only one left illegally. Does the Secretary of State agree that this is absurd and that we should discourage illegality much more than is happening here? And that this also applies to the voluntary departure grant scheme for NGOs? It has been evaluated, but it is called "inefficient." In a single case, the scheme cost even €50,000 per illegal. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State has put an end to this, but it wants to go through with the regulation. Is it prepared to link a result obligation to the grant, with regard to the number of departures? And if not, shouldn't we leave this whole subject to IOM instead of NGOs? Because the evaluation said that they were not even convinced at first of the need to leave illegal immigrants, and that this taboo has now been broken by some. My question is then genuinely whether these are the parties that must realize that departure. And can the Chamber gain more insight into demonstrable departure by the Service Return and Departure? Because I cannot properly assess the impact of the policy, when looking at the budget and the Reporting Stranger Chain. There you only see for each year the inflow and outflow into the work stock, but that does not say anything about the success of the policy at this level. Can the Return and Departure Service report in how many cases there is evidence of departure, preferably after one year, two years and five years? Then we also know if the work of the IND is effective and how many people actually and demonstrably leave. Mr. Chairman. The VVD does not want municipalities to facilitate illegality, and certainly not to trouble criminal asylum seekers, and even if they are completely out of court. That's why the VVD is very concerned about the LVV pilot. This would create a system of departure, and would finally put an end to bed-bath-bath-bread. But what is now apparent in practice? That's hardly coming off the ground. In Amsterdam there will be ten locations for illegal immigrants. In some of these locations, neighborhood residents are afraid of their safety. There are municipalities that currently do not even comply with the covenants, such as Utrecht and Eindhoven. There, for example, bed-bath-bread goes on and is not forced to leave. There are even criminal illegals with a heavy entry ban in the LVV. Is the Secretary of State prepared to keep the relevant municipalities to the agreements, with the prospect that they will not receive the LVV benefit next year? I'm considering a motion. And would the Secretary of State point out to the municipalities that so generously want to receive illegal immigrants, that the azc's are full of legitimate status holders, for whom there is no living space, who are therefore allowed to be honest in the Netherlands, but not to be taken care of? Perhaps the municipalities could give that priority. Speaking of which, what about the housing for the large number of status holders in the coming years? What progress has Mr Ollongren made with municipalities? And how does the cabinet prevent all these status holders from getting priority over people who have been on the waiting list for a social rental house for years? Mr. Chairman. Then there is something else that seriously undermines support for asylum seekers in our country: troublemakers. We talk about that a lot, unfortunately. And I've been talking to people who've been worried about that lately. Go talk to shopkeepers in the municipalities of Westerwolde or Budel, or to people on the Vechtdallinin in the east of the country, with women who prefer not to get on the bus or train alone anymore. I said it at the beginning: our freedom and our security are worth defending. And it's very good that the Secretary of State is fighting for that, too, with her top X approach, the Htl, the Chain Marines, whatever it takes. But we hear that not everything is really possible, for example because of privacy rules in the GDPR, that mayors should not get all the information from such a top X list, that information about potentially dangerous status holders cannot always be shared with municipalities. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the adaptation of sectoral legislation for the GDPR? And can she update on the possibility of imposing a public transport ban on the Vechtdallinijn? And what about the police capacity around azc's? In Westerwolde, but also in Budel, residents are very concerned about this. Perhaps the Minister could explain how this is or can be brought to sufficient strength. And can the Secretary of State undertake that municipalities that do want to receive asylum seekers but do not want to have more room for them, so that we can also create enough places? Mr. Chairman. We are defending a safe and free society through a rigorous and fair asylum and migration policy. But unfortunately it is precisely in and around azc's increasingly unsafe and unfreer. If a fellow asylum seeker overwhelms you with boiling water because you're a lesbian, you've ended up in hell from one hell to another. That's why the VVD, together with D66, wants a plan of action including incident registration aimed at protecting gays in azc's. 'Cause not them, but the unsubs have to separate. Those who do not accept homosexuality must, as far as the VVD is concerned, be at least in the htl from day one until they can be detained and deported. This also applies to asylum seekers who attack or threaten others because of their beliefs, such as a Christian faith. I am sure that Mr Voordewind agrees with that. As you can see, Mr President, there is also consensus in the coalition. Mr. Chairman. Today is the international day against violence against women.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u105	Before proceeding, there is an interruption for you from Mr Emiel van Dijk, probably on the previous point. That's what I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u106	Yes, indeed, because these are crocodile tears from the VVD again. Gee, I'm sorry we all have illegals; we have to do something about that. I'm sorry that homosexuals are often unsure of their lives in azc's; we have to do something about that. I'm sorry that all illegals cause nuisance on the Vechtdallinin and in azc's; we have to do something about that. Then why are you voting against the motion that we want to hold these illegal harassers for as long as they can be deported? That's exactly what you just said: we need to secure them until they can be deported. Then why don't you? That's one. Two. In another motion, the government asked for the residence permits of all the status holders who lied about their age or sexual orientation after their asylum procedure to be expelled. That's exactly what you're saying here. And you won't. You're doing exactly the opposite. You reward them with a residence permit, and if they are not entitled to it, you reward them with bed, bath and bread, and you walk here all the time I wanted to say "beggar," but I do not, Mr President, complain about the failing policy. What the hell is that? Shame on you, I'd like to say to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u107	This is a typical example of that VVD-corvee that we see all the time from Mr.Emiel van Dijk. His entire contribution is about the VVD. Then he submits a number of motions, so that he can say on the basis of those motions: look, what the VVD says, is all wrong. You're really a little obsessed with what the VVD is doing, but okay. I can give you an answer in terms of content. The PVV's motions are often not legal. You leave nothing to be desired by what we have agreed in international treaties, what can and cannot be done under legislation. You tell the Secretary of State: if anyone has lied about his age, send him back to his country, even if he comes from an unsafe country. That is the principle of non-refoulement. We can't do that. Mr Emiel van Dijk knows that, but he would very much like to create a sort of simplistic image, as if the PVV could solve everything tomorrow. That's not true. That is why we are voting against this type of simplistic motion and come forward with our own proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mr. Chairman. I have already said that today is the international day against violence against women. The defence of freedom also includes the fight against oppression, which unfortunately sometimes comes into society with migration. Last year I presented an own-initiative paper, which was also discussed in the Chamber, against honour-related violence and against cultural oppression. Fortunately, many motions have also been passed, thanks to the colleagues here. Today I would like to ask whether we can continue in this direction: can we tackle marriage exploitation more firmly? I have been working on this together with colleague Jasper van Dijk. Could we not, with a separate article in the Code of Criminal Law, for example under the heading of trafficking in human beings, ensure that we do something for women who have been brought here for only one purpose? The man then said for one purpose only "I will marry you," namely to keep the woman in the house as a household slave, to make him work for him and to have all the power over her. Can we really criminalize that? Does the Cabinet want to investigate that? Does the government also want to investigate whether we can take away the opportunity or at least make it more difficult for men to continue to do so, to get a new partner from abroad, each time with the same pattern of oppression and abuse? For example, I would like to make a few suggestions, but I would like to trade them in for other offences by including a ground in the criminalisation, by regulating supervision by the probation or by giving the upcoming marital partner an opportunity to gain more insight into the criminality history of this marital partner, who apparently suppresses and mistreats women over and over again. So she can think about it a second time herself. Because if you live in the Netherlands, it's a lot easier to find out if anyone has ever been convicted and for what, than if you come from abroad unsuspectingly. Maybe that can also be part of the pre-integration, that you should also have learned about your wedding partner's activities? I'd like a response. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying two more sentences. All these proposals are aimed at protecting the values and freedoms of our country. I started my contribution by saying that the generations for us, the generation of my grandfather and grandmother, once literally did that: fighting for freedom. They know what it was like to live in an unfree country. But we, this generation that is standing here today, must feel that obligation to continue to do so figuratively. I am also doing this today with my colleague Dilan, who will continue our speech on behalf of my group. Because, Chairman, you're not done with us yet. This was just the opening program.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u110	That's good. I look forward to that. Dilan refers to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I see Mr Markuszower and then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mrs Becker of the VVD opened her speech by saying that it is nice that the Netherlands is a free country and that men and women are fortunately the same here. I share that with Mrs. Becker. I'm glad you did, too. She ends her speech with a plea against marital imprisonment and so on. Of course, I'm against that, too. In fact, we have just tabled a motion on this matter. As PVV, we have said: forbid Sharia marriages, because that is really marriage imprisonment. It's not just marriage imprisonment, because what often happens is this. That also affects a bit of your other wallet. A man of 50-plus in a Islamic country, in Pakistan or in Yemen, marries a girl of 12 or 13 years old. If I am not mistaken, the President has been concerned about this in the past. And a few years later, when the girl is 18 or 19, they emigrate. Under the generous policy of the VVD they can come to the Netherlands. And then that marriage is just recognized. Then it is not said: the girl has been married for six years to a man of 50-plus; she was then 13 and is now 18 or 19; that must have been child abuse. But what does your VVD do, Mrs. Becker? What are the ministers doing? They recognize that marriage. This motion of mine has not been adopted. The VVD was against it, which said: no, we simply continue to acknowledge those Sharia marriages, and so we accommodate those child abusers from faraway countries who import child brides into the Netherlands, and we maintain that. And Mrs. Becker just keeps that up. She is now coming up with a great plea for freedom, equality between men and women and the fight against marital imprisonment. And then there's a vote in the Lower House, so she can stop it, but nothing! Silence!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u112	In the fight against illegal marriages, I do not think we necessarily need a PVV motion to take that seriously. In any case, I know that Minister Dekker has made a bill to deal with marital imprisonment and wedding coercion. I know that my colleague Jeroen van Wijngaarden has submitted an initiative paper to make sure that you can better deal with the conclusion of an illegal marriage. Now Mr Markuszower has tabled a motion. I wasn't at that debate. I don't know the literal text of the motion. But I have just said in a small debate with Mr Emiel van Dijk that there are often wordings in the PVV-motions on the basis of which we cannot vote for them. Then the PVV pretends that we do not think the whole subject is important. Well, I can reassure you: the VVD also wants to tackle illegal marriages and will do everything in its power to counter the compulsion and terrible situation in which such girls are in. The VVD wants to help those girls and prevent such situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u113	I do not blame Mrs Becker for not attending that debate. Her colleague from the VVD was indeed there. There's a bill. That doesn't fix what I'm talking about. So let's just talk about this case. I'm not gonna throw that motion at you, I'm just gonna throw this case at you. A man of 50-plus marries in a faraway country, let's call it an Islamic country and a Sharia marriage, because often it happens with a young girl under 18. In the example, let's mention a 13-year-old girl. So that's child abuse. In the Netherlands, we find that child abuse. We forbid marriages like this. Then such a man arrives, he immigrates, asks for asylum or I know a lot what it's all called with that child bride six years later to the Netherlands. That girl is now 19, but believe me, Mrs. Becker, she's still trapped in that marriage. Together they come to Holland. The Netherlands recognises that criminal Sharia marriage and therefore does not say: that must have been child abuse. The Netherlands therefore lets such a couple live together in the Netherlands in the azc, or even gives them a home, often away from other Dutch. So they're being accommodated here by the VVD. I would now like to ask Mrs Becker: will you stop that? Do you want to help or not? Make your own motion. Do you want to stop the marriage of girls who are abused abroad, who must be married to a very old, scary man, being recognized in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u114	Mr. Chairman. We need to keep two things apart for a while. Of course I'm against marriage control. Of course I'm against exploitation. Of course I'm against child marriage. We fight for this every day, with various spokesmen of the VVD, including me, this minister. In my view, it is hardly even a political issue anymore. From left to right in the Chamber we do everything we can to fight against it. But what I hear a little through the proposal from Mr Markuszower is that the Dutch government should have an opinion on all the Islamic marriages that have been made in the world and which should not be recognized, if people come here at some point. That fits with the PVV's agenda, always putting Islam in the suspicious corner and putting away an entire group. I do not know if that is the proposal he is making here in concrete terms; then I would be against it. Then I would like to make an extra contribution, thanks to Mr Markuszower. Let us together ask the Minister to give us the legal explanation of this. What is the possibility of contributing to the prevention of that wedding incentive of such girls? And at the same time how can we intervene if this is necessary within the current legal system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u115	I'd leave it at that, Mr. Markuszower. Otherwise, you'll have a fight with Mrs. Helder, and rightly so. Mr. Van Ojik, I don't know how many interruptions you have; otherwise you'll have another fight with Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u116	It's my first, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u117	Well, no, not your first!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u118	At such a moment you hope for the support and solidarity of your colleagues...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u119	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u120	... but nothing is less true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u121	...I see all those men walking forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u122	They sometimes forget that they had apparently already interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u123	Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I would like to ask another question about that national migration plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u124	Yes, a very short one. You've asked quite a few questions, I see. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u125	The fourth, I hear. With your permission, I would like to ask Mrs Becker another question about the national migration plan. We have now had three Cabinets Rutte, ten years of VVD policy, four State Secretarys consecutively from VVD House, of which this Secretary of State is the last. And then the VVD Group comes up with a proposal for a national migration plan. It sounds really cool, from "we're gonna do something about migration now," but isn't that a bit of a weakness offer? And what does it actually say about the last ten years, that Mrs Becker of the VVD is now pleading for a national migration plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u126	I am sorry that Mr Van Ojik is so flattened and so inadequate. He's actually saying, you're coming with something now, you've been ruling for ten years, and now you're coming up with a plan. You're not serious, are you? I know we're all having lunch, too, and I don't want to make it too long. But I have just said in my speech that the VVD has worked hard in these ministries day in and day out of recent years to make asylum policy stricter and fairer. With a Turkey deal, with the adjustment of the sliding scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u127	That's right, you said all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u128	With the Secretary of State who got the htl; the discretionary power that we have abolished; the visa code that has now come up; the merging of the hearing. It's all concrete things we've done. We're not coming up with a plan right now; we're on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u129	That's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u130	There is now a plan from the European Union with elements of things that my colleague Azmani has been advocating for years. That is finally there, and the Commission finally acknowledges that, and we are moving forward with that. All we are saying today is: do your homework as a country at the same time and prepare yourself for a possible crisis. Not because I would like to present a plan here, but because we are obliged to do so to all those Dutch people who are concerned about their security and their freedom and the grip we should be able to hold on to migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-5.u131	Thank you, Mrs Becker, thank you, Mr Van Ojik. We're gonna have to leave it at that. Mrs. Becker has been here an hour and ten minutes. That's pretty long. I see Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I would actually like to make the proposal, as Mrs Becker also mentioned, to have lunch for half an hour first. Then there will be a brief arrangement of work and you will have the floor.
