ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Electricity Act 1998 and the Gas Act, the implementation of the Gas Directive and a number of regulations in the field of electricity and gas, 35283. A warm welcome to the Minister of EZK, Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are now discussing a law which, in fact, results quite automatically from a European directive. In itself, that's not so exciting, you might say. However, there are a number of aspects to which I would like to comment and for which I am going to make a number of amendments. Let me start with the geopolitical side. That might be a little unusual for this committee. But there is a whole discussion about Nord Stream, a leadership from Russia through the Baltic Sea towards Germany. This directive has played a certain role in this. I wonder whether the Minister might be able to comment on how likely he is that Germany is really going to resort to an exception that this directive offers to enable Nord Stream. To what extent is the Netherlands able to ensure that if it does go ahead, it does meet the requirements that we impose on all the connectors in Europe? This also applies to another route that may still be realized: the Turkish Stream. It goes on another route, namely from Turkey to Bulgaria to Hungary. These two pipes could completely circumvent Ukraine from Russia. That's all pretty exciting geopolitically. I don't need to talk about that today. However, I am curious to see how the Minister sees this directive and the possibilities that exist, including from a Dutch perspective, to ensure that the quality of the connectors is at least at the level. Interconnections also play a role when it comes to our immediate neighbours. That is why I have a question about an issue that was raised not so long ago, about the Clauscentrale. This gas plant would produce 1,300 MW if it was running. But he doesn't; he stands still. The Belgians have thought that if the Clauscentrale is directly connected to the Belgian network, they give RWE, the owner, a compensation mechanism because they are connected. Then, if they need it, the Belgians can draw energy directly from the Clauscentrale instead of obtaining energy via the normal grid and via a normal connector. The Minister has written a letter to the Belgian state stating that we do not think this is such a good idea because all this CO emissions are on us and we get zero of that energy. Thus, if delivery is made, the Minister considers that this should be done via the regular network and the regular connector. My question is whether the Minister actually has the instruments to prevent an agreement between RWE and the Belgian State, which means that the Belgians connect the Clauscentrale via cable to the Belgian network. Does the Minister have the tools for that? Or, for example, should this be regulated in this law? Then I have a third question, which is linked to a plan that I have repeatedly called for and that there is now: what happens if there is a great calamity and our gas supply is in danger? That's what a Protection and Recovery Plan Gas is written for. I understand from the legislative proposal that it has not yet been possible to come up with good solutions for this directive in the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan and the question of what you are doing with interconnections. At least, to include it in that plan. So I was wondering if they're working on that. When can we receive further information about this? I would like to talk about a number of domestic issues. I am taking advantage of the opportunity offered by this proposal to amend the Electricity and Gas Act, because it concerns the capacity problems in the Netherlands itself. I have made a number of amendments to that effect, because we have discussed network capacity problems on a number of occasions in committee. There are conversations going on, too. You all know that there is a consultation on the N-1 debate. But there are also a number of smaller adjustments that can help to solve the capacity problem. I am therefore passing through a few of the amendments that I have tabled, also because I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. First of all, we are talking about the amendment to item 13 on a ban on cutting solar energy. There are several legal proceedings concerning the deliberate cutting up of solar parks in cases where several smaller connections to the applications lead to lower connection costs than one large one. This is already prohibited for wind energy and this amendment also prohibits solar parks. That is the first amendment. The second amendment is tabled with Mr Sienot of D66. It's about cable-pooling. This amendment aims to make it possible to offer only one connection at the request of several owners of sustainable generation installations, in order to avoid unnecessary multiple connections. With the amendment to item 15, I want to ensure that, in addition to the standard connection method, the system operator is given an additional opportunity to connect faster and more effectively. A concrete example is the connection of a wind farm, which has to be connected to the high voltage grid according to the regulations, while the system operators and market players can connect it to the medium voltage network cheaper together. This means it can be faster and cheaper. In Deventer, there's a case like that. Then there is the amendment to item 16. This will allow the system operator to offer, if the network is almost full, an offer of transport under conditions. This amendment also establishes the principle of first come, first serve. The network operator may refuse if he does not have a network capacity and may refuse in order of entry of the applications. These are my amendments on network capacity. That did not solve all the problems. There should also be much more investment in our decentralised electricity infrastructure, but that is what other debates are more intended for. As far as network capacity is concerned, therefore, I should like to leave it at that. Finally, I have another point. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect. This concerns a question of closure costs. A motion of mine has already been adopted, stating that it would be a good thing that when a customer finally goes off the gas, the cost of that closure, which can now be €800 to €900, is 50-50 distributed between the network operator and the customer instead of having to be paid entirely by the customer. This motion has led to an effect by the system operators. They submitted that to the ACM and the ACM said that this does not fit in with the current laws and regulations. A recent interview with Henk Dom, the outgoing director of ACM, shows that he has a bit of annoyed the Chamber on three points when it comes to greening. That was at the coal power stations, that was at the pluff chicken and that was with this proposal. He said about this last proposal: the law requires that when a customer orders the conclusion, the customer also has to pay the costs. The complexity of this reasoning of the ACM is that it is not at all clear who actually orders the closure of gas. That doesn't necessarily have to be the customer. It could also be the power company. Often the supplier says to the customer: you must give that order. And when the customer does, he's the one, 'cause he'll pay the full cost. I still find the ACM acting strange. Anyway, that's a fact. But in order to change that, we need to adopt an amendment to this law. Then, under ministerial rules, we can make an exception to the rule that the person who gives the order pays the costs. Then the Minister can make sure that these costs are shared fifty-fifty between the network operator and the customer. That was the last amendment I wanted to explain. That is the amendment to item No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u4	GroenLinks and D66 often share green ambitions, but we must continue to understand each other. The idea of "first come, first serve," that amendment, that went very quickly. But I believe that all parties have invested in the knowledge that there is a legal obligation to connect to the grid. Is that what GroenLinks wants to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u5	No, I don't. There is also a deadline of 18 weeks. It's still standing. I want to keep that one up, too. But the practice is that choices have to be made. There is a great growth in renewable energy generation, especially in the case of solar energy. We have had discussions about how to select. The practice at present is that the "first come, first serve" principle is applied. I think that is the only principle that can be applied in a meaningful way. If that's all the practice, it also makes sense for me to legally anchor that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u6	This is interesting. Mr Van der Lee wants to legally anchor a practice, because it has grown as a result of an undesirable situation. It seems right to me that we are not going to record that right away. I would actually argue that we should keep the pressure on the system operators to work together to find solutions and, if necessary, if the market can do it faster, let the market solve it first. In short, we need to find other solutions so that as many parties as possible can board.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u7	I'm always willing to do that. Any solution that contributes, I welcome. The same applies to the solutions suggested by Mr Sienot. Whether it's a form of smart grids or whatever, I'm fine with that. But what you don't want is for people to fight each other in court. The system operator is forced to act because of these circumstances and opts for a principle that, I think, is the most reasonable principle. But because it is not legally anchored, it leads to legal battles without anyone winning. Well, at least that's the consideration I'm having right now. But we can discuss that. I'm also curious about the Minister's opinion. I'll find out what the colleagues think. That's how it works in a democracy, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u8	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u9	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Only a brief contribution from my group. It is well known that my group is in favour of international cooperation in order to ensure that we produce and use less fossil and more renewable energy. However, my group has serious doubts about the far-reaching transfer of control to the European Union. In the written round to this directive, we expressed our concerns. For example, we do not want to put the phasing-out of gas extraction from the Groningen field and from small fields on land at risk. Safety in Groningen must be and must be the highest priority, not the market or delivery to others. In fact, we felt that the answer given by the cabinet in the written round was a little too vague. You can read that on page 3. I quote: 'It is therefore not possible to indicate whether this will lead to delays and whether there will be any impact on the extraction of gas from Groningen'. Our question in this debate: can the Minister please be more precise? Can we at a time with this amendment of the law be obliged to obtain more gas, because we are obliged to do so internationally? Or could there be a calamity whereby we suddenly have to open wells in Groningen or elsewhere on land? What could this mean for Groningen, but also for the small gas fields? At the moment, the extraction of gas in Groningen is not only about our safety, but also about the security of supply to Belgium and Germany. How's this going after this law change? Then there is my second point. Since the answer to the questions in the written round, something has changed significantly: the Brexit. This gives the Netherlands an interconnection with a third country. England has now become a third country. It's about the Bacton-Balgzand-Leiding. Is this being discussed with the United Kingdom? I saw that Mr Van der Lee was using the amendment of this law as a tricky tool to raise issues that might not be raised in this debate. I thought that was smart. I agree with his argument on the closing fine. We think that is a very ugly thing. It is very sad that when people do something that the government wants them to do, namely stop using gas, they are not rewarded for it but fined. Despite the fact that I do not think it is entirely part of this debate, I would like to join in that speech. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. D66 wants a clean and reliable energy system, easy and cheap for everyone. For that, European cooperation is extremely important. D66 therefore strives for a common energy union. With the implementation of this European directive, we are taking the next step here. We make concrete agreements between Member States on solidarity in geopolitical tensions, in gas imports from third countries such as Russia or in electrical crises. This legislative amendment also provides for legal arrangements for Member States to assist each other so that power continues to come out of the power outlet. This is desirable. We can already see how energy networks between the Netherlands and Belgium affect each other. Already the Clauscentrale.................................................................................................................................................... Let's make sure we can use and build clean power from each other later on. As far as we are concerned, the green deal will also contribute to this. Is that what the Secretary of State is putting on that, too? Mr. Chairman. We agree with the proposed legislative changes. In this respect, we are supported by the positive assessment of the Council of State. However, we would like to seize this opportunity to tackle network capacity problems and address our dependence on natural gas imports. Society opts massively for the self-generating of green electricity. That's nice, but it also brings growth pain on the Dutch electricity grid. The Netherlands is currently missing 700 megawatts of green electricity, because it is not built on it. That is to say, there is for 1.5 times the power of the Borssele nuclear power station in the barn instead of on the barn. D66 thinks we won't get there if we continue to see the electricity grid as one endless copper plate on which all the power can go. We want innovation, by stimulating demand management with smart grids and energy storage. That is why we are proposing the following. Let the energy manager first ask the market if there are smart solutions that are cheaper than and as reliable as an adjustment in the regulated infrastructure before investing in the distribution network. If the market can do it faster and smarter, we will also keep the cost of grid congestion low for consumers. Everyone wins. I would very much like to receive a response from the Minister to this proposal. In addition, D66 together with GroenLinks sees another way to use the electricity grids as efficiently as possible in the short term. With an amendment, we want to make it possible for the electricity generated by solar panels to be disposed of via the same cable as windmills. There won't be overload soon, because when it blows hard, the sun often doesn't shine and when there's a lot of sunshine, it usually blows less hard. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to this proposal. I am pleased to be able to table this amendment together with Mr Van der Lee. The European regulations implemented with this amendment require Member States to draw up an action plan in the event of structural congestion in order to remedy the situation. Well, as far as we are concerned, the current situation of high congestion on the grid is crying out for an action plan. I have a simple question to the Minister: has he already started writing? Mr. Chairman. D66, of course, also sees the importance of gaseous fuels in the Dutch energy system, even during the large shift to clean energy. This European directive strengthens the solidarity of EU countries in order to reduce dependence on Russian gas. D66 thinks that's a good thing. It is also important that the transition is made throughout the EU to move away from natural gas. The EU's intentions are hopeful. The Green Deal is getting more and more shape and there will be a European climate law that will set the noses in Europe in the same direction, towards a strong growth of green energy production. And the figures do not lie: the generation of electricity through the sun and wind in Europe is now greater than the generation of electricity from coal. Not just power, but the entire energy grid goes to green. Researchers predict that 35% of European energy production is already sustainable by 2020. At the same time, we also see the need to significantly reduce our dependence on gas, in homes and in industry. There are all kinds of good reasons for this and there is a lot of profit to be made. A modern, isolated house wastes 4.5 times less energy than an old, poorly isolated house. That is why I ask the Minister how the cabinet is committed to reducing the dependence on gas in the built-up environment and industry. After all, there are still a lot of successes to be made. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to my conclusion. We support this law, as it marks the next step towards a European Energy Union. Moreover, we are eagerly looking forward to solving that huge, big, fat, fat clot in the power grid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u14	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the amendment of the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. Not so long ago, the Gas Act was amended, and that was disastrous at the time. At that time, the gas connection obligation was removed from the law. New buildings have not been connected to the gas by default since then, with all the consequences. And now again an amendment to the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. Why? For the implementation of an EU directive and four EU regulations, i.e. for EU rules on electricity and gas. All the alarm bells must start ringing immediately, because of course that cannot go well. And indeed, if you read those horrible EU texts like that, it doesn't exactly cheer you up. I will quote from it in a moment. Anyway, the transition to sustainable electricity generation comes at the heart of the matter. There comes immediately the monkey out of the sleeve, completely in line with the terrible European Green Deal of EU climate pope Timmermans: climate neutrality, sustainability, sustainable energy, windmills everywhere and solar panels everywhere. That is where the EU wants to go. There will be a European climate law, because the EU must be climate neutral by 2050. Until 2030, this will cost no less than EUR 1,000 billion and then much more. Now, among other things, the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators must coordinate national regulations. Why? Because there is a need for market integration. Because "uncoordinated national measures can cause problems." What kind of trouble? So what should be coordinated? While households in Germany and Belgium are switching to natural gas and even getting money for it, everyone in the Netherlands needs to get rid of gas. Which market integration are we talking about exactly? In addition, a common EU framework is being created, and I can hardly get it out of my mouth with regulations to prevent and control electricity crises in Member States. This means that Member States need to work more together in the spirit of solidarity and create more mutual trust, whatever that may be. "Electricity crises" is, of course, already significant, because there will be a lot of them in the future, with all these unreliable windmills. Things like European solidarity will, of course, get your neck hairs straight up. The term alone. An example of this solidarity is: "Scaling up production capacity in Member State A, if it is helped by Member State B." What does that mean? Once the EU is full of windmills and there is a Member State that does not get enough electricity out of them, for example because it simply doesn't blow, does another Member State have to jump in? How does that work and what does it do with the price of electricity? This alone shows the total unreliability of wind, but also of solar energy. For this madness, a reliable energy system of coal and gas, with in the Netherlands the cleanest power stations in the world, is destroyed. Mr. Chairman. In order to exclude the risks associated with the supply of gas, solidarity must also be a guiding principle here. Member States whose gas systems are interconnected should draw up preventive action plans and emergency plans. And why? To prevent the disruption of gas supplies. That's rather striking. What do you mean, disruption of gas supplies? The biggest risk of supply of gas is actually this cabinet itself. The whole country needs to get rid of the gas. How can it be that other countries are going to use more gas, while in the Netherlands everyone is being disconnected from the gas? Mr. Chairman. Energy is a national matter. The PVV has always argued for keeping energy companies in Dutch hands. First, Essent fell into foreign hands. Thousands of jobs have been lost. After that, NUON was sold out. Now Eneco is sold to Japan. In doing so, the responsible municipalities have opted for the bacon of their own municipal treasury and lost sight of the public interest. Again, energy is a national matter. The Netherlands itself decides how it regulates its energy supply. The EU should not interfere with this terrible EU-Green Deal. Above all, do not give the power over our energy supply to those who want to break down this energy supply with expensive climate and sustainability madness. I am talking about the EU, but certainly also about this cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of... Oh, I see an interruption by Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u17	I note that even in the field of energy, the PVV does not really want to cooperate in Europe, which is clearly keeping the energy bill down. Sun and wind are incredibly cheaper everywhere. If we have a good interconnection, it will give us reliable power, even if it blows a little less here and the sun shines a little less. It keeps our energy bill low. It makes us less dependent on Russia. I note that the PVV actually puts our entire energy system, our energy bill in Putin's hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u18	Well, let's start with the last one. We have put the energy bill in the hands of D66, among other things, which is now in the cabinet. That account has only increased enormously due to all kinds of climate madness and sustainability madness. That's your fault, Mr. Sienot. What you want is to hand us over to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u19	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u20	Sure. Mr Sienot wants to deliver us to the EU's whims. Of course, there's nothing to do with working with other countries. Of course not. Please don't put those words in my mouth. But we don't need that terrible EU for that, especially now that there's a terrible Green Deal coming up that's going to cost as much as 1,000 billion until 2030. The electricity price, the gas price and so on, the energy bill will only go up through this sustainability. Look at France, for example. There the energy bill is much lower thanks to nuclear power. Look at the Germany. There the energy bill is also hugely high, as in the Netherlands, as a result of all those windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u21	Mr Sienot additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u22	I note that the PVV does not want to find a solution for reducing the energy bill. D66, together with this cabinet, has brought the energy tax down to €100 in the coming year. I'd like to mention that. On the contrary, we see new opportunities to use the development of energy for a lower energy bill. The PVV prefers the dikes higher and the Netherlands as one system. Then where are we supposed to get all the energy from? It must come from abroad and then from abroad very far. That means that our energy bill is in Putin's hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u23	What exactly is Mr Sienot talking about? He said the energy bill goes down by €100. I'm sorry, but should we be grateful to Mr Sienot for that? You yourself raised that energy bill a year earlier by about €330 as a result of all that climate madness, as a result of increasing the storage of renewable energy. You can run away now, because you know damn well that I'm right. That's his policy!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u24	Mr. Kops, that's entrapment. I had twice given Mr Sienot an opportunity to intervene. That's why I signaled: we're closing now. I think that's why he walked away from the microphone. He's nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u25	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u26	So I'm gonna say that's true. It wasn't anxiety, I might add, absolutely not. I think you have come to the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u27	We're closing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I shall go back to this law itself, which in itself is not much more than implementing a number of EU regulations and directives. That can count on the approval of the VVD. I believe that all these directives help to improve the internal market in Europe for electricity and gas supply. This is also a well understood self-interest of the Netherlands, if only to try to reduce the costs for the increasing electrification of society here, for example. This requires that we are increasingly connected to the electricity grids of our neighbouring countries. In this respect, I am also looking with interest at the answer to the question about the Clauscentrale, because it feels very unnatural to have something on Dutch territory that is not connected to the whole European electricity market, but only to that of our neighbours in Belgium. I'm gonna highlight a few more things. The regulation on the security of electricity supply talks about the need to improve risk preparedness. I think that's good. This can also be a result for the Netherlands, especially in border areas where there are disturbances in the electricity network. The question that arises is whether it can have an impact on national security of supply if such a situation occurs for a long time. In other words, can it really be limited to emergencies and can you also switch back at some point when you see that the situation is going to take too long and have too big repercussions for the environment? The risk preparedness plans to be drawn up nationally are leading in this respect. The Minister says they will be published. But I would also like to know from the Minister how the House of Representatives gets an insight into this and we are involved in it. It has already been referred to by several speakers: Mr Van der Lee has had a chance to make a number of proposals here which dealt with the subject that we, as a Chamber, have often discussed, recently in a round table, namely the scarcity of the electricity grid. For the sake of clarity, I am particularly interested in the Minister's response to this. I think there are some sensible additions, including additions to the already made proposal for making the escape lane available. So I look forward with a positive basic attitude to the Minister's response to these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u31	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the transfer of European directives to national legislation. Usually that's a pretty simple operation, so I would have thought: that's going to be a Groningen contribution, so it's going to be "nice hit," "it could be less" and now it's going to be a beer. But the debate is getting a little wider. I welcome Mr Van der Lee's amendment because it sets out legal solutions to some of the bottlenecks that we have in the electricity network. This raises the question of how the dialogue between the Minister and the network managers is, because it is a bit strange that these changes should come into law through a parliamentary process. This could have been initiated from the Ministry itself, couldn't it? I have often talked about the urgency of tackling bottlenecks on the electricity network. I'm not going to talk about the New Buinen Football Association right now. This will be discussed in general consultation tomorrow. However, some of these problems must be resolved with decisiveness. Once again, I appreciate the amendments that have been tabled, because they can remove a number of bottlenecks. Mr. Chairman. The second and final point I want to make is the risk preparedness plans. Mr Harbers has already spoken about this. How are we to be involved as a Chamber? Because those are plans that have quite an impact on the customers of energy, and there are a lot of them. That's all the residents and all the businesses in this country. It has already fallen somewhat, but in the past we have seen that power plants have to run on a low pitch and that the question has been raised as to which companies or which areas have to be switched off at some point. So my question to the Minister is: how is the House of Representatives involved? And the second question is: is there a broad consultation when drawing up risk preparedness plans and do they also provide good, sound and timely information to the public and businesses? That is enough, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u33	Mr President, thank you. Today we are discussing the amendments to the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. These are the result of European regulations aimed at the European market for gas and electricity. The CDA sees the importance of such an integrated market. If we as a Europe want to achieve our goals in terms of climate and energy, then we really need to tackle this together. This will make it easier to work together at European level. This will ultimately reduce the risks of potential electricity problems and enable us to switch faster when a crisis occurs. Mr. Chairman. Another important advantage of these changes is that if there is a shortage of gas, solidarity between Member States will be strengthened and Member States will be able to help each other more easily. The aim is at least to maintain gas supplies to protected customers, which are mainly households...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We would like to hear from the Minister that the removal of the Groningen field to zero cannot be undone by this law. I would like to make a commitment to that today, otherwise I will table a motion. Interconnectors with third countries for the supply of gas can ultimately also contribute to security of supply. In December, I asked the Minister if he was prepared to discuss the situation with Belgium and the Prince Clauscentrale at European level. The supply of electricity from the Prins Clauscentrale to the Belgian electricity grid could jeopardise the security of supply in the Netherlands. In addition, the CO emissions of this plant will be on our hands. Then you have an outcome that the CDA doesn't want, namely a deterioration of your security of supply and additional CO emissions because you help the neighbors. The Minister then indicated that there was a detailed discussion with the Commission on security of supply and that there were discussions with all interested parties. According to the Minister, the commitment was to keep the power plant on the electricity grid. At the time, the Minister was unable to provide further information on the outcome of the talks. Can the Minister do that now? Can he clarify that? And how does this situation relate to the proposed amendments to the Electricity and Gas Act? Is the security of supply for the Netherlands strengthened or deteriorated by these changes in such cases? Can we expect more of these cases in the future? And to what extent are there any other elements in this law that could have negative effects on the Dutch energy transition? Perhaps the Minister could reflect on that. Mr. Chairman. The regulation on the internal electricity market states that an action plan should be drawn up in the event of structural congestion. When do we talk about structural congestion of the electricity grid? And to what extent does the Minister think that this is already the case? Mr Sienot was very clear about that. If we see the problems, not only in Drenthe but everywhere, then I understand Mr Sienot's attitude very well. The Minister indicated that there was close coordination with the ACM and TenneT on whether the Netherlands should adopt such an action plan. Can the Minister tell us more about this? Should an action plan be drawn up? And if so, when is that? And how does the Minister assess the functioning of the European regulator, ACER? 'Cause he's getting an important role. Does the Minister have faith in that? Mr. Chairman. This Regulation also refers to financial support for Member States and regions facing social, economic and industrial challenges as a result of the energy transition. Can the Minister tell us more about this? In what cases can regions benefit from this aid? And could it also be used by regions in the Netherlands, including, for example, Drenthe, Friesland and all those other regions where there is more demand for capacity on the grid than there really is? Can the Netherlands already make use of the European money for this? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u35	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u36	Mr. Chairman. Some of the debates are mainly about what they're not about. This debate is such a debate. Now, of course, you can ask yourself, wasn't it Mr Moorlag who said that? Why the Minister himself did not ensure that this was the case, because he could have thought of all these things himself. That is true, he did, because the intention was to include this in the Energy Act and to include it in the Crisis and Recovery Act in a temporary way. The consultation was complete, the stuff was ready and it was a matter of overwriting. Then why doesn't the Minister write that down himself? That's because we have a rule. I haven't been able to understand him, and I'm not going to defend him either. I don't know why that is. From an efficiency point of view, I would say: delete that rule. But I've been following that rule so far. Bon. Let me be very brief. Five amendments have been tabled. Those are all old acquaintances that we have talked about here and that have already been partly set in motion by another route. I am very welcome that it came this way. I have not been given the opportunity to combine that, but it is given to this Chamber. That is why I am giving all five amendments to the House's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u37	I note that all the amendments have indeed been judged by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u38	I am pleased to have seen the last text, namely the amendment to item No. 18 so I say out of my head. 13 replaces. That's the right version. A number of other questions have been asked. Some of them have nothing to do with the bill, but this debate is about other things than the bill. I'm gonna finish the list. Mr Van der Lee asks how likely it is for Germany to bet on Nord Stream 2. He's actually asking about Turk Stream. Is that a different situation? Yeah, that's it. It is up to Nord Stream 2 to determine whether an exemption is requested. It could also be an anomaly. In the case of a derogation, Germany is called upon, in the case of an exemption, the Commission is called upon to ask Germany to conduct the negotiations. That was the compromise on the rules that supposedly weren't about Nord Stream but in the end it was. It seems quite likely that Nord Stream will ask for a deviation. That is because of the view that the pipeline is already ready, whatever else you think of it. In both cases, the Netherlands is simply consulted and we can give our views. But I'm not gonna make predictions about Germany doing that. Incidentally, the Dutch views will not be asked of Turk Stream, because we do not get gas from Turk Stream. Mr Van der Lee asks if we have any instruments with regard to the Clauscentrale. Yes, because there may be a need for a concession and it will have to be applied for from EZK. I propose that we return to that as soon as this matter is raised. I'm not going to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u39	And that's a concession to connect the Clauscentrale to the Belgian network?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u40	Yes, for the connection to the Belgian network. I think I will report to this Chamber very soon, but I do not want to do so until I report it. That's a proper course of action. Then Mr Van der Lee asks about the protection and recovery plan. Several spokesmen have asked for different protection plans, recovery plans and action plans. I will never catch up with Hugo de Jonge again, but there are quite a few action plans in this area. I think they're getting mixed up in rhetoric here and there, but I'm going to try to answer the questions I think they've been asked as best I can. This could be the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan. The Gas Protection and Recovery Plan is an emergency plan, but it is called a protective and recovery plan, which deals with the measures that can be taken in the event of a serious disruption of gas supply. It runs through a whole ladder. That plan was presented to the Chamber last October. These measures are now being further developed. This further development will also shortly come to the Chamber. On top of that plan, and based on it, there will be a National Crisis Plan Gas, in consultation with Justice and Security. The Chamber will also be informed of this. Mrs Beckerman asks an important question about solidarity. I think that from her party ideals she often speaks the word "solidarity." She is now wondering what that really is about. If we have to show solidarity with other countries when it comes to gas, can we be forced to supply gas from Groningen? Let me put it first: we are simply going to end the gas extraction from Groningen. Period. That's the final conclusion. That's always been my verdict. That EU regulation obliges neighbouring countries to agree on solidarity. It's about appointments. This means that within these agreements we must find ways to help neighbouring countries. Then it is only the customers protected by solidarity, not the rest. When you see that, you can already see that it's highly unlikely that that's gonna be a huge dent for us. Suppose there is some kind of gas shortage in Germany. The idea is that we will then have to supply some of our high-caloric gas to Germany and reduce it, which means that the Groningen field will have to supply more low-caloric gas. But there is a lot going on, because Germany uses 70 billion cubs, of which only over 20 fall into the segment of solidarity-protected customers. Much must be done before that plan comes into force at all. That's a very small chance. If that were to happen, there are, of course, a number of possibilities to obtain gas from elsewhere, for example LNG. In the extreme case, the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan will then enter into force. I just said that was sent to the Chamber in October. In this Gas Protection and Recovery Plan there are all kinds of steps, but the step of increasing extraction from Groningen does not occur. All in all, I will return to my statement that the gas extraction from the Groningenveld will be terminated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u41	That sounds good. So the Minister says: no, under no circumstances will this slow down or suspend the phasing-out? We just really want that one hundred percent guarantee so that we can determine our vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u42	I can describe exactly what's happening and what's in that plan. Of course, I don't have any strings on future governments. Who knows who's gonna be at the helm? I can't say anything about that. But the plan as it is is not going to go down on Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u43	The Minister can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u44	Mrs Beckerman is right to ask about the British connection. There is now an exemption to recoup the leadership. The legal regime doesn't change. The only thing that changes is the status of the UK. That exemption will continue until December 2020 and it is up to the British, and the pipeline itself, to apply for an extension of the exemption for the period thereafter. Then the European Commission must negotiate with the United Kingdom the conditions for a possible exemption. I don't know what's coming out of it. We don't know how united the kingdom is, but that's how it is. Mr Sienot also makes a sensible suggestion. I'm just trying to repeat it in my own words. If I follow him closely, he'll say the following. There could be bottlenecks. Isn't it useful and meaningful, before we're all going to throw investments and create long-term solutions, which may also take a long time to implement, that parties will first just see what they can do, in an innovative way? Those can be all kinds of solutions, in terms of storage or shutdown, or you name it all. I do indeed think that a network operator should look for all the solutions to transport as much renewable electricity as possible. Network operators have also occasionally organised a market consultation for this. Congestion management is part of this, as is flexibility in all kinds of ways. This also comes from the market, and that system operator must also actively look for it in the market. Of course, the costs must be seen in relation to the benefits, but I think it is extremely useful for Mr Sienot to stress that solutions should simply be sought instead of just looking at infrastructure investments. 'Cause that could take too long. Then Mr Sienot asked for an action plan. Yeah, what's an action plan? There is an action plan for cross-border transport capacity. That action plan has been in place since the end of 2019 and concerns interconnection. There is also an action plan, and he knows this, about network capacity, to ensure that network capacity is increased and we take action in the short term and in the long term. I do not know what action plan Mr Sienot means, but the action plan has cross-border transport capacity. It was developed at the end of 2019 in close cooperation with the ACM and TenneT. That plan is, of course, aimed at meeting the requirements that the law is about to impose. An interesting question from Mr Sienot is his question about the future of gas, especially in the built environment. Look, gas can't be ruled out in the built environment either, but it has to be green gas and hydrogen, possibly mixed. This will be useful for some types of neighbourhoods. I think it's important that we see that the built environment where it can of course actually be on, let me say... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Don't... don't... don't... don't... don't... don't... don't... don't.. don't... don't.. don't.. don't. But there are, of course, solutions with lower temperatures, which often deserve to be preferred. Ground heat, residual heat and heat pumps are all lower temperature solutions. They often deserve to be preferred, but probably not everywhere. If we look at how a canal house should be heated, we can best imagine that gas solutions exist. In any case, what we need to do, and I am extending it beyond the built environment, is to make the best use of the existing gas infrastructure. We're gonna be able to transport hydrogen with it, and we're gonna be able to use it to get into the houses. Let us take advantage of the existing gas infrastructure. We can do things with that in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u45	I fully agree with the latter. We shouldn't just destroy the gas infrastructure. Maybe I should have asked you more precisely, so here's the thing. We see that natural gas is becoming scarcer in the Netherlands. So we have to make it from there, with all kinds of problems. How are we going to speed up the real reduction of our dependence on natural gas, especially in the built environment and in the industry where there is a lot of profit to be made? Does the government see in recent reports that this is an incentive to pay particular attention to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u46	I'm just gonna get this out of my head. I believe that we agreed in the Climate Agreement that 1.5 million homes will be decommissioned in the next ten years. That's a phenomenal job. We're working on the test areas right now. That's a huge job. We have set a number of important conditions there. No matter what kind of politics you are, you can always imagine. The cost-neutrality of housing is a huge challenge, but we must stand for it. It's not gonna work without it, I'm guessing. If we're gonna confront people with huge costs, everyone's gonna drop out. The second thing that is really needed for this is the so-called 'heat fund'. When you look at that as a financial expert, you say: this is residential expense-neutral. Yeah, that's all nice and nice, but then there could still be a funding issue. The heat fund is extremely important for this. My thesis has always been that the acceptance of the transition depends first of all on the living situation. Within the housing situation, the owners just see that coming towards them. Inside, the owners of existing homes, even older homes, see the greatest challenges ahead. As far as I am concerned, that is the epicenter for the emergence of support. We have to pay great attention to that, otherwise it's gonna fail. And we never know all about that. The PBL estimates are patient and say that the costs go down very fast. But we have to keep looking at that. Every year we report that again and every year the cabinet and the parliament are going to look at whether what we think is coming out of it and whether we have a good proposition to the Dutch. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u47	I interpreted Mr Sienot's question a little differently. The point is, we're gonna shut down Slochteren. The small fields also deliver less than expected. We're going to import gas, with some climate disadvantages as well. In another context, we have discussed the question of whether the Norwegians can not supply some more gas. The Minister has made a commitment to enter into talks with them. I don't know if he's got anything more to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u48	At that time the Norwegians were at their tax level, but we are now in contact with the Norwegians again in many areas. I'll see if there's any more recent reports. But delivering from Norway rather than from another country does not in itself reduce our dependence on gas, not even the number of cubs. And it doesn't make the houses warmer than they are. Mr. Chairman. I have not heard a very clear question from Mr Kops, but an extremely astonishing statement, namely that the energy supply in the Netherlands is national. At the same time, the PVV is constantly in favour of continuing to import large quantities of oil, coal and electricity. That's an amazing theorem. I have taken note of it with great interest. Mr Harbers is asking about risk preparedness. He understands the underlying thought, he says, but he wants to know that this does not lead to emergencies. On the basis of plans, if the man is in need in one country, assistance should be provided to that other country. This may mean that we need to take measures to temporarily disconnect certain users or certain types of users. But that risk preparedness can never lead us to go into an emergency ourselves. That is, of course, impossible, because then the solution is to create a new problem. The Dutch plan for risk preparedness is sent to the House of Representatives, as is the protection and recovery plan I mentioned earlier. So there is every opportunity to reflect on that. This question was also Mr Moorlag's question. I hope I have also answered Mrs Mulder's question about Groningen, which was previously addressed to Mrs Beckerman. I also answered the question about the Clauscentrale. Then I understand the question about the impact of the legislation before us in relation to this issue. The energy transition. What we are doing here is getting other countries to jump in if there is a nasty situation. But I haven't been able to think of any cases or see clauses that hinder us in carrying out the transition. Then Mrs. Mulder asks about ACER. She calls that the supervisor, but it's actually not. It is a European Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Supervisors. It's in Slovenia. With us, the energy regulator is the ACM. It is a very competent organization, where 70, 80 people, experts, work, who are also seconded from the various supervisors. It doesn't really supervise itself. But it is an organization that does ensure that conflicts are resolved and knowledge is exchanged. In the eyes of the people involved in ACER, it is an extremely well-functioning organisation. Mrs Mulder asks whether there can also be support from Europe for Drenthe and Friesland. Here, too, I have to interpret what she means by that question. I didn't hear her ask about the Green Deal. I thought I heard that it was this legislation, but I did not see a financial support instrument in the Electricity Regulation. So this legislation itself will not lead to financial support from Brussels for capacity shortages on the grid. It is not part of this legislation. Mr President, I was there with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply and, of course, for the positive assessment of the five amendments. I'm very happy about that. As far as the Clauscentrale is concerned, I am pleased that the Minister has a clear instrument with the probable failure to issue a licence for the installation of a cable from the power station to the Belgian network. At the risk of this touching again on what is or is not part of this debate, I still have a question about the timing of things. The Minister is also working hard on an additional climate package, because of Urgenda. There is a discussion about the future of coal in the Netherlands, not least because a coal power plant is defective. Do I understand correctly that, at least in terms of instruments, we have the possibility that the Clauscentrale will simply continue to supply the Dutch grid, should the accelerated abandonment of coal, as necessary and desirable, get a majority? Finally, I saw a slight glimmer of light in Mr Kops' speech, because he is very keen on the importance of national energy production. So I am still providing more support for the production of solar and wind energy from the PVV in the Netherlands. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u51	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sienot. Mrs Beckerman will waive a second term, so the floor is really up to you, Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u52	Thank you, Mr President. We have drawn attention to the problems of grid capacity in this legal process. Furthermore, we have asked for an action plan, which this law also ensures that there is a need for congestion. The Minister says that such a plan is already in place. I would like to say that this plan is not yet complete because congestion and pressure are only growing. So more needs to be done and more creative needs to be looked at. I'd like to make that call. As a result, I was very pleased with the Minister's response to our call for market consultation by the grid operators. I would like to build on that with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is increasing congestion on the electricity grid in more and more Dutch areas;]] [[Whereas, in addition to increasing the electricity grid by grid operators, the market may offer alternatives to relieve the electricity grid, e.g. in the form of a battery, hydrogen plant, heat storage or smart grids;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with network operators in order to avoid further delays in connection with congestion by organising a market consultation in order to better identify and apply the possibilities of other appropriate innovative techniques;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how and whether this can be enforced, even if this is insufficient;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Harbers, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35283-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Towards further integration of the European energy network.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u54	Then we came to the end of the second term of the Chamber. I shall suspend for a few moments until the motion has been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u55	I call the Minister for the Appreciation of the Motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u56	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee managed to ask for the Clauscentrale via the Urgendaroute. I hope to be able to clarify the Clauscentrale shortly. Mr Sienot's call for creativity has been well heard. The motion he's filed, I'm gonna give you Chamber of Appeal. Mr Van der Lee, I confirm that there has indeed been regular contact with the Norwegians, but also recently. They have indicated production at the maximum level. However, there is also more competition for Norwegian gas through the construction of a Baltic pipe from Norway to Poland. This means that we cannot count on us getting more gas from Norway. Moreover, the analysis we discussed here last calendar year on the supply and consumption of gas in Europe indicates that this is not worrying, but that we, as Europe but also as the Netherlands, are becoming a larger importer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u57	The motion in part No. 19 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u58	Yes. And that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-29.u59	There were no more motions. I note that we have come to the end of this legal process.
