ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u1	I see almost all the MPs are back. The same applies to the rulers. Then we will proceed with the discussion of the Justice and Security budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u2	We had stayed with Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just happy. I thought: my colleague Bente Becker has a little tired of the colleagues, so they are tired, but they have been able to rest. So we're gonna see how it goes. Mr. Chairman. I am also very happy that my colleague Bente Becker is working very hard to ensure that we get a grip on who enters our country and who does not enter our country. That we know who crosses the border and that we can at most prevent potential terrorists from crossing our border between the asylum seekers. I am also glad that Bente Becker fights for people who are allowed to stay here to learn what life looks like in the Netherlands. That they know that the freedoms you have apply in full to the other. And that they have to respect our way of life. Because unfortunately, we experience too often what happens when there is no respect. If you think it's normal to attack gay people because you think a man can't love a man. If you preach in the mosque that our free society must be destroyed. If you spit on a passerby because he's wearing a yarmulke. If you even travel out to join IS and actually go to war with us. Or if you're willing to make an attempt to destroy our way of life. Over the past year, we have seen that Muslim terrorists do not hesitate to do so. We have seen it in countries like France and Austria. I have said it before: these are countries that are not only close to us in distance, but also in the way of life. That's why these attacks hit us like this. They must also hit us, because they are aimed at destroying everything we stand for. In our country too, teachers, journalists and cartoonists are threatened and intimidated because they do what they have to do: make children resilient and protect our freedoms. Although we can never guarantee 100% safety, we do everything we can to keep our country and our Dutch safe. Of course, we do that with the many police officers, with the detectives, with the security services: all those people who are untiringly waiting for us day and night. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it earlier: we have fortunately been able to adopt a lot of laws in recent years that make our country safer. For example, for people who travel our country. We've made sure that once you get there, we can say we're withdrawing your passport, taking away your nationality, or criminalising staying in terrorist territory. But also about terrorists in our country, we have said that we want to be able to extend the detention period so that we can hold them longer. We want to be able to do DNA tests. If you get out and we still don't trust it, we want our security services to be able to follow you for life if necessary. We even passed two motions last week, which the majority of the Chamber says it wants to make the law to take away Dutch citizenship permanent. And we want to strengthen ourselves in the Schengen area to ward off hate preachers. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to make one comment. It bothers me that when I say that we do not want the women jihadists here either, there is always a naive picture of women who, in ignorance, would have followed their husbands and baked cookies there, as if they were the real victims of this misery. These women are invited for interviews. Weeping profiles are made. There's even a play about one of these terrorists, Laura H. Anything to give these female terrorists a face and awaken our sympathy. I really think it's a gotsp and a blow to the face of all the victims of ISIS and their next of kin. I'd rather fight for the real victims of jihadists, like the Jezidis. I am so glad that we will finally be able to speak to them in the Chamber shortly, on the initiative of the VVD. I like to pay my attention and time to these people who have already suffered so much, rather than to terrorists who seek pity. Sorry, sorry or no regrets: whatever. As far as the VVD is concerned, they have lost their right to be Dutch. Mr. Chairman. I started my speech by saying that the VVD wants to know exactly who enters our country. Through the asylum stream, but also through our airport, for example. This is also an important place where border control takes place. The people who work there depend on the information they have in front of them. Due to the importance of Schiphol and the large quantities of personal data, it can be an interesting target for hackers and other malicious people. The General Court has warned us about its vulnerability and dependencies within our vital infrastructures and processes. It is important that we take this signal seriously and have a clear picture of the risks and the steps that need to be taken to get it right. I'd like a response from the Minister. I am also very pleased that, partly due to the motion by CDA and VVD, almost one million euros is going to continue and extend the approach undermining at Schiphol Airport. Can the Minister explain what is being done about this in concrete terms? Mr. Chairman. Back to the freedoms terrorists are trying to take away from us. They are freedoms that we stand for. The same applies to our freedom of the press. Where we used to laugh carelessly at a cabaret, impressed by a striking cartoon, or sharpened our thoughts on different views in the media, I see that people are becoming increasingly reluctant or even more fearful. Journalists are also restricted in their freedom, both by terror and by groups who, for other reasons, prefer not to be able to do their work freely. Think of drug criminals. Journalists deserve our protection, because they are at the heart of our democracy. I would therefore like the Minister to see whether there can be a national point of contact with the police for the category of more seriously threatened journalists. As far as I'm concerned, this can be done by using the expertise of the Team Threatened Politicians, because they already have the right knowledge. I'd like a response. I would also like to draw attention to the safety of freelance journalists. These are freelancers who do not have a large media company behind them and need support if they are to take security measures. I now hear from freelancers that sometimes they choose not to tell their story because they are concerned about their safety. If journalists allow stories to go away for this reason, that is understandable but at the same time very poignant. There is no way that we can accept this. This is a direct violation of the freedom of the press. I would like the cabinet to sit down with the big media giants to see how a fund can be set up for this group. If you really think that you can threaten journalists in our country, it will be more severely punished as far as the VVD is concerned. We will soon be discussing the bill on the criminal approach to undermining, in which the cabinet proposes that more severe penalties be imposed in the event of threats to politicians, judges and lawyers. That is a good proposal, but as far as I am concerned, this includes the journalists and cartoonists. They should also be given additional protection. We will therefore amend the legislative proposal accordingly. All this to keep the terrorists and other criminals from winning. This is our society, these are our values. Freedom is normal here and we will continue to defend it. So you'll get used to it! What I would never want to get used to is the idea that it would be the other way around and that they would win. Never again do I want to see us mourn the murder of a lawyer, like after the brutal murder of Derk Wiersum. We must not bow to the pressure of criminals on lawyers, journalists, mayors, brokers, notaries and other entrepreneurs, to the billions of euros of black money being laundered in the upper world and to the fact that children of eight are being used as drug couriers. The problem of undermining drug crime is immense and calls for a comprehensive long-term approach, focusing on three pillars that you have already heard from the VVD. First of all, prevention: how do we prevent little boys from becoming big criminals? Second, repression: tackling criminals hard. And third, taking down the way criminals make their money. To start with prevention: how do we prevent young children from being used to deal drugs or use violence, making them an inexhaustible source of new staff for drug lords? We know that many young criminals and drug criminals have a slightly intellectual disability or other psychiatric condition. They're streetwise. If we talked to them, we probably wouldn't even notice they have a very low IQ. But it's true. That's a big problem, because they go in and out of prison, but they don't see the consequences of their behavior. Both inside and outside detention, they fall prey to those who abuse them. They are the foot people and are often the first to be caught. Once you're in the criminal environment, you're barely gonna get out. What is the situation with Minister Dekker's commitment to see whether there can be premature screening for slightly intellectual limitations, so that tailor-made work can be done to prevent recidivism? Less recidivism means fewer victims. I assume that's what we're all trying to achieve here. My colleague Jeroen van Wijngaarden's proposal also fits in with that. He also draws attention to the fact that children are not born criminally, but that they copy criminal behavior that they unfortunately see.... in their environment, even within their own family, for example if their big brother has preceded them. The VVD wants that, if these kinds of children are caught for criminal behavior, in exceptionally difficult cases the whole family can be examined. We need to keep an eye on the brothers and sisters. I'm gonna keep hammering on that. We shouldn't forget them, either. I'd like a response. Much more can and must be said about prevention, but I do not have that much time. With your permission, I will proceed to repression: how do we get criminals off the streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yeah, I'm doing it right now because I don't know exactly where the argument is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u6	Maybe you should wait. It'll come on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mrs Yeşilgöz made a fine speech about freedom. Actually, that's what I was working on. I think this argument appeals to a lot of people. You're actually saying that our freedom is threatened from multiple sides. That could be crime, organised crime and terrorism. We have to arm ourselves against that. Then you can find something about how we do that, but I think that was at the heart of the argument. I like that argument. One of the things that guarantees our freedom is independent justice. One morning, not long ago, I opened the concept election program of the VVD and then I choked on the cappuccino that we used to drink at D66. It states that the VVD proposes that the Committee of Ministers should have judgments of judges of the European Court corrected. I didn't send it to Warsaw and Budapest, but I can imagine the champagne uncorked when they read this. Can Mrs Yeşilgöz explain how, as far as I am concerned, this insane proposal fits in with her speech on freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u8	The judiciary is, of course, one of the foundations of our rule of law. That is what we have in the electoral programme, and we will always say and defend it. So that doesn't change anything. The judge always has the final say when it comes to individual cases. We would then like to see what such a ruling might mean for case law in our legislation and for how we intended it here. We can then have a democratic debate on this with each other. I regret that Mr Groothuizen chokes on his cappuccino, because that is a waste of a good cup of cappuccino, but he could have called me, because I could have explained it. We are in fact defending the rule of law and the independence of the judges. That is exactly what the proposal says. We'll see how we can make sure that this is right for us at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u9	I sometimes speak a few judges and I don't think they immediately had the idea that the VVD here jumped in front of them. But Mrs Yeşilgöz does not know her own election programme either, because this is not there. It's the first bullet, and bullets are always important. It really says: 'correcting judgments of judges of the European Court of Human Rights'. That's the VVD's proposal. That really is a flagrant violation of the separation of powers. I hope that Mrs Yeşilgöz understands this and, in fact, that she is prepared to admit here that the VVD should not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u10	If it needs to be clarified, I am glad that I can do so here, and we will do so in the text. The judge always has the final say in individual cases. However, this is not necessarily the case in the legislative process and in how we set up a society here. We must then be able to have a democratic debate on this with each other. What impact does this have on how we set things up here with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u11	Okay, then I suggest... Oh, I still see Mr Azarkan and Mrs Buitenweg. Take it easy! This is your favorite microphone, I noticed, Mr. Azarkan. Yeah, you can use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u12	You know what I mean. That's right. It's a great place to stand. It's close to you. I can feel the heat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u13	Fine! It's a bond. It's a bond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u14	Let's get back to this point. The proposals contained in the VVD programme have been criticised. Another proposal is that the ECHR should no longer be subject to scrutiny. The VVD also knows that we do not have a court here that reviews our Constitution. This means that people who are discriminated against can no longer go to Europe to have something tested there. That's what the VVD actually says. Am I to understand that the VVD suggests that we don't do that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u15	No. As I said to Mr Grotenhuizen, you want to know whether the case law that arises fits with how you want it settled here in your country. Nationally, we can do a lot. We also have debates about this. But we cannot do that internationally, and that is what we are proposing here. We say that we must also be able to share the results at international level. Is this how we've ever imagined it and what it should have looked like? And that's what you do together. It is exactly what I said to my colleague from D66. This also applies to the international aspect. We are defending the rule of law and free justice in our country and also internationally, precisely in order to strengthen it and to ensure that all those countries continue to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u16	That's not an answer to my question. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius talks about case law, but I am not there yet. What I believe is proposed is that someone who is discriminated against here in the Netherlands will not be able to go to the European Court of Justice in order to have what is happening here in the Netherlands laid down and tested along the measuring bar of the ECHR. I think that's what it says. That is in stark contrast to what Blok said when he was told: yes, you cannot be part of Europe and take the benefits of it, but then not participate in the agreements we have made with each other and what you have to agree to. Then it's like a cafeteria model. We know that our Constitution is not being tested here. We don't have a situation in which that occurs. I would therefore like to ask whether the Dutch who are discriminated against here in the Netherlands will soon be able to go to the European Court for an assessment of what has happened here on the basis of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u17	The Dutch remain free to do so. It's about what a verdict like that means next. What does this mean for our society? That is what we want to have a discussion about. That is why I call this case law. I see that Mr Azarkan finds it a little complicated. I'd like to explain it here sometime later. It's also quite extensive in our election program. What matters is that the judge by definition keeps the last word in an individual case. You can see that this is sometimes translated into our society, our legislation and how we set it up here. Then we want to be able to have this discussion with each other. This must also be possible at international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u18	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes, it's going fast, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius for explaining this to me. I don't have her level, so I might ask for a little more time. I really like it when she wants to take the time to explain. Thank you for that. Do I understand why she says: we respect the individual case in which someone gains his right in Europe, but if we are wrong on that point, does this not automatically mean that the case law will continue to adapt? So all the others who come after that should just do it again, even if we know that it is not right and that we are wrong in relation to the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u20	I didn't think the question was entirely clear. The point is that judges cannot directly in this way, for example, suspend our laws or exercise influence. We would then like to engage in this dialogue, preferably at European level with the other countries, in order to see what impact it has on the organisation of society. I think keeping the conversation going is the most important thing. That is why I think the comments and ideas that may come from GroenLinks, but which we also saw in the media on this subject, are very important. Because you want to have that discussion. What's the effect? What has the ECHR ever been set up for? How did we shape that together? What does it mean today? Is that something that we can defend with each other in that way, or should we adapt or decorate some aspects of it? We want to have that discussion. I think this is very important. Sorry, I'm rounding up. I think it is very important to keep everyone involved in the question of why this kind of legislation and rights are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think I'm gonna have a chance to explain it one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u23	I think so, and I think it's necessary. Yes, it would be very nice if Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius would do that. If the ECHR is different from what Member States want, it is always possible to adapt the ECHR. That's how it works. Usually there's a ruling from the courts. That says something, too. After that, politics will have the opportunity to amend something together with the Member States, if this is desirable. But that's not what the VVD says. The VVD does not say: we can all amend treaties, if we agree unanimously. The VVD says: we want the Committee of Ministers to be able to amend individual statements that do not make sense to us. The VVD also says: we want the Dutch Constitution to be amended so that the judicial review of laws is limited to the ECHR. It seems as if the VVD has forgotten that we live in a democratic rule of law and only think that we live in a democracy, and ultimately it is only up to politics to determine how fundamental rights should be interpreted. My specific question to the VVD is: how does the VVD want fundamental rights to be tested? Should this happen at the ECHR, at a national court or how does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u24	That is a very good question, because it can be tested at different levels. But in the end, whether national or international, you want to know how this works in your own society. I'm going to quote an example that lies outside the Netherlands, but that for me was one of the first moments that I started to think very much about how this works out. That was during my work visit to Italy, where I spoke with several people, officers and judges about anti-Mafia legislation. They came up with all kinds of examples in relation to the ECHR. They said that they get the following from Europe: these are fundamental rights of criminals and you violate them, so you have to change your whole policy and laws. They say, "This is what works. At last we manage to stay ahead of those mobsters and hold them longer. And then there is an appeal to one of the human rights that is in the ECHR, for example, that you cannot put a criminal in isolation for a very long time. But if we don't, they're going to organize attacks from the prison." We have seen this before, and Italy has seen it in a very painful way. This is an example. I am well aware that this is not the answer Mrs Buitenweg wants to hear. She also mentioned the Netherlands, but this is what is happening in Europe. We want to be able to test what effect it has, what it means. Let's have that debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u25	A debate is fine, but this is about... I hope that a little more thought will be given, including from the party that advocates freedom and democracy in a rule of law. It says here that judges cannot test against the ECHR. If certain laws are contrary to fundamental rights, as is currently the case in Poland and Hungary for example, the VVD wants it not to be possible for a court to terminate such conflicting legislation. That's what it says. I see Mrs Yeşilgöz thinking and she should definitely do that. So I'd say take your chance to amend. Does the VVD find it acceptable that a judge is no longer in a position to terminate a law when it is contrary to human rights treaties?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the VVD has been thinking about this for a long time. This is not the first time we have put this here. You may know that Klaas Dijkhoff and Halbe Zijlstra mentioned earlier, on the basis of a great deal of specific case-law, why we should start this discussion with each other. So this is something that has been discussed for years, within my party, but also here. This is what we are now putting into our electoral programme: this is what it should look like as far as we are concerned. I think it is very important that we do so this way. I would like to say that I fully support the electoral programme, in particular because it has been a long-standing development to come here and say: it has an effect, which one can wonder if that is what we want with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u27	Then I'm going to see Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u28	The Members who have asked me very critical questions about that chapter in the VVD's electoral programme on justice are, of course, quite right. Because, in my view too, that shows almost anti-legal views or at least very risky views about how you look at the legal process. However, while we are discussing the VVD's electoral programme, it also has a relationship with the 2021 budget; don't worry, Mr.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Every human being has a right to justice. Access to justice is the foundation of our rule of law. And what has the VVD been doing for years? Those actually say "subsidised legal aid"......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We'll cut that back." The VVD actually has very little money left for that. And now the VVD itself says in the election program: in order to keep the subsidised legal aid affordable, we abolish it for divorce cases. So that just means that people who end up in a complex divorce case have to figure it out for themselves. So where is the human right of access to justice, the foundation of our rule of law, in the eyes of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u29	First of all, I would like to make a comment about the claim that parts of the text we were just talking about could be anti-legal. Of course, Mr Van Nispen may think so, but I am absolutely opposed to that. What we are doing here is precisely protecting the rule of law, protecting the position of judges and also saying: let's discuss how that will then work out in society, because by definition you want to keep that support and protect the independent judiciary. That is what we want to achieve in this way. We can differ on that, but I will not be told that the VVD would be anti-right-wing. I also understand this question, because I know that Mr Van Nispen from the SP has also debated this very much with my colleague Jeroen van Wijngaarden. I also know that Minister Dekker has allocated 30 million for this year and next year to invest extra in legal aid, in social law. So I think we're taking important steps. I share Mr Van Nispen's view that access to justice must always be open to all those who wish to achieve their rights. However, we may differ on how to organise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u30	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u31	Okay. I would have stayed with repression and the fight against drug criminals. The question is how to get criminals off the streets. According to almost all experts, the two main tools to tackle organised crime and roll up criminal networks, gather data, share information, and the use of key witnesses and regrets, people who can then put that data in the right context, so that we can catch more criminals. On the first point, you have heard me make proposals here earlier, recently with a colleague of the CDA. That's where we're gonna walk together. So I would now like to talk about the second point. The current legal key witness scheme exists for a little over 15 years and is clearly in need of modernisation. Experts we spoke to at home and abroad, such as Italy, point out that the key witness scheme now only pays in the event of high criminal prosecution, but that it would be much better if it were more flexible. Having access to smaller criminals means not only that there may not be any or less agreements to be made with notorious criminals, who already have a lot on their plate. You may also be able to roll up a larger part of the network by their key position and prevent these little criminals you've been able to include in the star witness scheme from becoming big bosses. Is the cabinet prepared to modernise the key witness scheme and at least include this concrete proposal from the VVD? Then about the security plan that is not only made with a key witness, but that, as far as the VVD is concerned, should also be made standard prior to any major criminal case aimed at organised crime. We always want a safety plan to be put in place in advance, looking not only at the safety of the key witness, but also at the safety of his family, lawyers, judges, officers and others involved. I'd like a commitment to pick up this conversation with the Justice Department. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, many fundamental mistakes have been made about the security of the key witness and his environment. Now, of course, I'm talking specifically about the Marengo case. I have repeatedly asked questions about this: murder of an innocent family member, murder of a lawyer, protection of other lawyers for their safety, just for the fourth time accidentally sharing a photo of the key witness and so on. A few weeks ago, the Minister promised to inform us confidentially about what is happening here, but I have to say that there is no agreement yet and that I am actually done with it. I want to know where to do better, so that future victims can be prevented. So, actually, my question now is: what is the reason why the Minister is so easily moving away from this recurring question of the VVD? And then the third pillar: to undermine the earning model of the criminals. We cannot ignore the fact that if no one were to use drugs, these ruthless drug criminals would not make such an incredible amount of money in their trade and therefore we would not have to deal with the aggressive and undermining practices surrounding it, such as killing lawyers and threatening journalists and mayors. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether and, if so, how to look at the effectiveness of our drugs policy, what the actual effect of the current policy is and what effects the firmer approach to drugs or legalization I would take the two extremes at all if we were to take realistic account of the fact that a lot of drugs are exported abroad. Mr. Chairman. That's how we see drugs entering our country through seaports. These ports do not want a competitive disadvantage. So they flinch back for intensive controls if that would be a disadvantage to them. Therefore, as far as the VVD is concerned, the cabinet should be on the move to launch a North European seaport pact with a joint agreement plan on the level of risk of drug controls on ships. In doing so, there is also a need to cooperate with departure ports in order to effectively organise controls. Only by working together can the net close. The more countries and seaports are involved, the better. Similarly, it is also necessary to look at package mail that now passes the world in anonymous packages of pills and coke. We've asked questions about that before. Perhaps the Minister could go into that further. It is also extremely important to make people resistant to criminals. And if that doesn't work and people are fooling around with scum, like in the case of bank fraud, then too often we see that victims are in the cold. Is the Minister prepared to table with the banks as soon as possible to ensure that people who have fallen victim to these types of criminals are also compensated? Mr. Chairman. Allow me to make a very different point about compensation. Together with the SP, the VVD has drawn attention to people who save the life of another by a spontaneous rescue and then have to pay for the costs if damage occurs during this heroic act, for example that their glasses are destroyed or their phone is stolen. The answer of the cabinet to our questions was a bit down to "that's bad luck." This has to be different. So I'd like a reaction. Of the same category, where the government actually says "bad luck for you" are the registrations at the Chamber of Commerce and the visibility of addresses. Companies registered at home addresses are visible, making it very easy to find out where someone lives, sometimes with very unsafe situations. Unfortunately, we have received many examples of this. If you don't, you're gonna have to pay for a P.O. box and organize it yourself. That is the reverse world as far as the VVD is concerned. Those addresses should simply no longer be automatically public, but only be decided for competent parties, e.g. notaries. I'd like a commitment that this will be settled. Before I finish, I would like to dwell on another point that is very touching to me. You've heard me about it a lot. I'm talking about the poison called "anti-Semitism." First set up security and then adjust the cake for your bar mitzvah. Every day you're gonna be aware of the fact that you're gonna get yelled at for wearing a yarmulke. That is the reality for so many Jews in our country. I am pleased that with the initiative of the VVD and the Christian Union, 3 million have been released to tackle this more effectively. The spending proposed by the cabinet would not, frankly, be one-on-one my idea, but I am prepared to see what effect this will have. I would also like to know from the cabinet how the impact measurement was set up. I could not find the most important post, a national coordinator for anti-Semitism, so clearly. I suppose that's up to me. I would therefore like an explanation. Where can we find that post? How much has been set aside for this? Is there a national coordinator yet? When does he start and what assignment? Mr. Chairman. After discussing all these points, you would almost forget how my colleague Bente Becker started this story: we have such a special country, where we live in freedom, but that freedom is not self-evident and we should cherish it with each other. I would also like to conclude with that. Today we are asking our rulers with all kinds of proposals and hopefully also with proposals from our colleagues here to protect that way of life. But I think that we all, as residents of our country, should stand up for these freedoms and that we should not just leave it to teachers, journalists or cartoonists to pass on its importance to the next generations, and not say easily from our bank: don't bow down, you fix it, you stand for that freedom. We must do this together, including as citizens of this country. Now that these people are under such pressure, we know that teachers have to go into hiding and we know that journalists are under threat and Samuel Paty has even had to pay for teaching with death, we also have to make sure that we stand alongside them, not only in words but also literally. My colleague Bente Becker and I have already indicated that we would like to go out with a group of people who stand for that freedom. I actually hope that a lot of people will join us to show that there are always more of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u33	Beautiful words, especially at the end. I think Mrs Becker's gonna blame me for having VVD-corvee, but I'm just gonna do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u34	That could happen to the best of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u35	Sure, that's right. There is still a critical question to ask, because somewhere in the speech Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius said: "We have made so many laws to make the country safer." That will be true, but it is often the case that laws as such do not make the country safer and that you need people to do so. Those are the cops who stand in front of us and take a step forward where others take a step back. These include the prosecutors, people who work in prison, people in justice, people in probation and so many others; you name them. I also mention youth workers and prevention, which is also justified. There are so many people who make our country safer. That is actually more important than tightening up laws on small points, as we sometimes see. Sometimes I get the feeling that announcing a higher sentence for something is a bit of a distraction to show you how tough you are and that you want to make the country safer. The VVD is actually running this Department of Justice and Security for ten years. If I have counted correctly, because it is sometimes difficult to do so, there have been eight directors of the VVD in recent years who have contributed to this. The VVD's election programme says that more district agents need to be created, more cyber experts need to be created, everything needs to be done, the undermining needs to be tackled better. Be very honest: if you have so many wishes and are going to make so many promises to the electorate, give us an honest picture of how things stand and how the VVD ended up after ten years of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u36	I am very pleased with this question, because we see that in the last four years alone we have invested almost 1 billion more in security. That is still significantly more than what was stated in the coalition agreement, precisely because we are investing extra in tackling undermining, tackling drug crime and tackling cybercrime. We're investing hundreds of millions more in the police. You don't hear me saying that's enough. That's the point. On the contrary, I am very pleased with those laws, which we have not only changed a small thing, but have been able to ensure that we can take away nationality, that we can take away your passport and that we can stop you from ever returning here if you are a terrorist. We've passed so many laws that are very important. We've put money on the other side. And then, of course, I will not close my eyes to the new challenges that are emerging in society and to the things that need to be done even better. I talk weekly, if not daily, to agents and people who work day and night for our security. I know what they're up against. You have seen, Mr President, that I have been working here for the tasers, for body cams, for the armament of boas who are competent and competent. But my wish list, which says what else I want to do for all those people so that they can be safe again for our freedom, is not ready. And there will be new challenges, so you will be here with me if we are the biggest for another ten years; I hope to see it over and over again, with new ideas every time. And I also hope to join the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u37	If they are good ideas, then we can certainly work together, but given the policy of the past few years in the field of Justice and Security, I can't hope that the VVD will be the biggest again. Look at the state of the police: neighborhood cops can barely get into their neighborhood, the screening is out of order at the moment, and we're looking for so many more cops and detectives because of the balding in the past. Look at the problems at the Public Prosecutor's Office: there are piles of things on the shelf, cases where victims wait for justice. Look at the delays in justice. Look at the fact that we can do far too little with people who have been convicted. You said "recidivism is preventing victims," but why is so little happening to those people to make sure that they are dealt with again? There's still so much to do. Then I do not think you can say: there are new developments and that is why we need to rewrite things in our election programme. These are all kinds of developments that have been predicted for years. People have been shouting for years that there's a threat of a bald blow in the justice system. So it really hasn't been enough. At the end of this cabinet period, it appears that it is simply insufficient, given the state of the police and all the other important organisations in our criminal justice chain. I really think it would be very good if Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius acknowledged that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u38	Unfortunately, we had to cut back in many places when the crisis was very bad. This has been under previous Cabinets, for example under the Cabinet with the PvdA. That's what we had to do. We also said that as soon as there is room again, we will be the first to invest in police and justice, for example. And we did. We've done that, and it's being done. I told you, for example, almost 300 million in the police force. That doesn't mean that tomorrow, disrespectfully said, you've got a look of cops waiting for you to pull open. People need to be able to be properly trained and then gain experience. I would also like it to be faster, but at the same time I do not want it to be faster, because I want people to have time for a good education. That means we have to go on with each other. Unfortunately, we also had to take a lot of cops off the streets when the security of lawyers, judges and officers had to be strengthened after the murder of Derk Wiersum. I am glad that the cabinet then said: we are going to invest heavily in tackling undermining. I am also very pleased that this cabinet period has not been used, but it is recognised that this is something of a long life and that you need to invest in it in a structural way. And we do, and we keep doing that the moment space is created. I have seen some of the amendments tabled by my fellow Members which propose an investment and cover: that is something that deserves to be paid back. You can't live up to that. I like to come up with good plans that I can actually make happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u39	I would like to appeal to everyone to keep the interruptions and the answers brief. That goes for everyone. Well, poor Mrs. Van Beuker-Huijbregts. You must now set an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's my very first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u41	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'll be very brief. I hear Mr Yeşilgöz saying that she has a lot of conversations with cops on the street, daily, weekly. Your election programme says that much more needs to be done to support young people and that much more needs to be checked. At the same time, you have just said that there is actually too little capacity; that needs to be deployed in the years to come. I don't think that's consistent, so I'd like to know how my colleague looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u43	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u44	What I have just said, and what is also in the electoral programme in various places, is that I would like to invite colleagues not only to read the safety aspects, but also the other ones, because that is where it comes back too: it is precisely in preventive action that we must pay attention to the ggz aspects, to care, to education. Over the last few weeks, you have heard my colleagues in the budget debate. In all these places they make proposals on the preventive side to ensure that we prevent young people from going in the wrong direction. But you've always heard me say "I'm sorry," Mr President, but it has to be said that the police are ready if you're not listening, if you're using violence or aggression and we're past the point of a good conversation. That is an important aspect. Then we're not gonna coddle you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mrs. Van Beuker-Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'm making it so complicated again with my name. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u47	I know the feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But look, we agree on this: we must, of course, take preventive action; we must, of course, make sure that we do not need to put those young people behind the rags. But that is what you mention in your election programme in the chapter on Security, and I am concerned about that. You have a wonderful story about freedom, and we find each other in it. But when it comes to those kids, you say, "If they slip, we're gonna sit on top of them and we're gonna keep chasing them." I don't think that's rhyme. What exactly do you say to these young people? That they all need to be stopped, that the young one shouldn't be a young one anymore, that everyone walking around the street is "so" a criminal? I'd like to hear from you how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u49	I say to young people who want a fair chance that we stand before them, that we come up with proposals and ideas in every possible way and that they have a fair chance of education, a job, a home. You'll hear all my colleagues about that. There are also young people who think they can make it to terrorize a neighborhood and make sure that people don't even dare to go outside or walk their dog because they are then attacked or cars are set on fire. We saw what happened to riots in all kinds of cities last summer. I've been there, I've talked to residents there. I say to those kids: the moment of a good conversation we're really past; you go with the police, you go to court and we're gonna look at your brothers and sisters at your house. I see D66 nodding of yes, yes, yes. So I ask D66, what do you say to all these residents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u50	That's what you're gonna ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u51	Yes, I will. All those residents who sit there and feel unsafe in their own neighborhood, what do you say to that? I assume that's where you're going with your cappuccino, but I don't think they'll appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u53	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Because of the limited number of questions I may ask, I have chosen to wait for Mrs Yeşilgöz's entire speech. And then I'm gonna go back to pretty much the beginning. 'Cause I heard her talk about a hotline for threatened journalists, and to put that on the Team Threatened Politicians. Now it's in The Hague and it's made up of nine people. We all know that, unfortunately, the number of threats to politicians is increasing. So my direct question to Mrs Yeşilgöz would be: do you support my group's call to extend that nine-person team?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u54	The only question I would have, and the only thing we could disagree on, is: how are we going to pay for it? But for the rest, I fully support it. I just have to say to you honestly, and you didn't hear me say that I found a bag of money. That's the only thing I'm running into right now, because I'm totally sharing it. But if I may add this: I can't beat the fact that we're taking care of it for ourselves, but say to journalists, for example, 'you have to wait'. And that is why I come up with this proposal today, and say, at least let us use their expertise for that heavier group of threatened journalists. There aren't dozens of them, thank God. But if we find money together to expand that, I'm standing next to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Madam President. This is the last budget debate for these rulers in this Chamber. I would like to start by asking them how they have actually experienced it all, both personally and what they see now as the biggest developments in their department. And also how they look at the division of labour; was it well cut at the formation table? And what message do they have for their successors? Mr. Chairman. If one topic has become central to the discussions here at JenV during this period, then it is undermining: the interrelation between the underworld and the upper world, the constant beating of organized crime on our society. And, unfortunately, we have been forced to protect the people who have come to the front line, including mayors, lawyers and families of key witnesses. Colleagues have just spoken about this. The approach to undermining is a huge task. Part of this concerns prevention, strengthening neighbourhoods, reducing the group of runaways and offering alternatives to vulnerable young people, but also more effective detection and prosecution, gathering and sharing information, international cooperation and catching criminals where it hurts. When I look back at the debates we have had, I see that plans are always being presented and good intentions are being made to really take away the wrong money. But the result is still sad. If I understand correctly, there are now many more banks that take responsibility and send signals to the public prosecutor about where there is wrong money, but then these signals are often not picked up. My question to the Minister is: where does that lie and what does it take to make a change, but now really? The D.A., the police and the justice system are crucial in protecting our rule of law. It is important for their strength that we do not have a jojo policy, but guarantee long-term continuity in vision and funding. The Rosenmöller and others motion, which was adopted in the First Chamber, has led to an investigation into how we can achieve that continuity. Can the Minister ensure that the investigation is ready in time to play a role in the next formation? Mr. Chairman. For me, too, this is the last budget debate. In recent years, I have often drawn attention to issues that affect women disproportionately hard, such as rape, stalking and cultural and religious practices that keep women small. I have talked about the wave of threats and intimidations that especially women and people with a migration background get to deal with when they stir up social debate on social media. I've also talked about partner murder. Today is the international day against violence against women. I want to ask the Minister how many women have been murdered this year by their partner or ex-partner. Because, of course, we can be proud that the total number of murders in the Netherlands has fallen in recent years, but, if I am correct, the number of female victims has increased. That too is undermining the rule of law. On this day, I would also like to ask the Minister to comment on a relatively new phenomenon: deepnudes. Deepnudes are photos and videos that have been manipulated through artificial intelligence to make it look like someone is naked or having sex. According to research, most of all deep fakes are pornographic. They are then often shared or uploaded as video on websites like Pornhub. Several Dutch presenters have already been the victims of this, and that is undoubtedly true for many more women who are not known, but who do have a vindictive ex. We have seen abroad that deepnudes are also used to silence and humiliate women. For example, a victim said that it felt as if thousands had seen her naked; it felt as if her body was no longer hers. How are we going to deal with this now? I think it's time to make rules for this. Shouldn't it just be forbidden to spread deepnudes if the person who figures in them hasn't given permission to do so? Together with the CDA, I am considering a motion on this subject. From victims of revenge porn and other misery, I understand that it is still extremely difficult to get images quickly removed from the Internet. They often don't know exactly where to knock. That's what I'm reading in a recent WODC investigation. It proposes to set up a hotline where people can get advice on the right route in their specific situation. Actually, I think that's a very good idea. How does the Minister see that? Of course, the Dutch Data Protection Authority has an important role to play in protecting our privacy. In this digital age, it is crucial, not only for our privacy, but also for the realisation of many other human rights, including equal treatment and fair elections, that we learn to deal with information very carefully, that data leaks are addressed, that the sale of personal data is limited. For that, we need to put the authority in position. I think that the cabinet's proposals for this are really inadequate. The chairman of the authority said it strikingly: the delays are so great that it is laughable. Privacy is not a thing of activists, but is increasingly important for our freedom and autonomy. Hence our amendment, at least the one tabled by the SP, for additional funding. Mr. Chairman. We also have an amendment on child pornography and child sex tourism. With the advent of the Internet, we see a much wider spread and also new forms of abuse. I find it difficult to discuss it in plenary, but I would like to make it clear what we are talking about. More and more children are being abused on order for the webcam. Virtual sex tourists do not hold the child themselves, but do have the direction and offer money, so that others do certain actions. They can watch through hard-traceable livestreams. These are children as young as 3 years old. The number of reports of online sexual child abuse has grown exponentially in recent years from 3,000 reports in 2014 to more than 30,000 in 2018, but the number of detective officers has remained virtually the same all these years. I know that discontent is widely shared in this Chamber, and perhaps also by the ministers. However, I do not see this additional investment in human resources and in new technology reflected in the budget. I ask the Minister to review this, including for all those detectives who are doing the heavy work on our behalf on the online detection of child abuse. The rule of law as we know it in the physical world does not appear to be present in the world online in the same way. There are new forms of crime that we did not know before: deepnudes but also phishing, hacking and spoofing. Victims often feel guilty and stupid because they recorded videos or used passwords too easily and do not report them. It is often unclear who should maintain which standards. Are those the tech companies or other companies? Is it the government and, if so, what government, in which country? There is also simply too little capacity to tackle this extra dimension, which has been added. 'Cause, yeah, the usual stuff just goes on. And the cops I'm talking to are already up to their ears in the work. And they've given it the best they can. That presents us with a very serious problem. If we fail to increase the chance of catching cyber-related crimes, this will affect public confidence as a regulatory body. Then there's mistrust, and possibly self-direction. Apart from other things, such as prevention and better cooperation between cyber teams, I think we need to increase police capacity in this area. Part of this capacity can be obtained by alleviating police duties in other areas. The most obvious example of this is with regard to the care and guidance of people with confused behavior. In 2018, the Switch team under the leadership of Onno Hoes made a large number of proposals to ensure that the police are relieved and that people receive the right care from the right caregivers. But why is the follow-up to these recommendations so slow? How can it be that two weeks ago the Minister and the Secretary of State of the United States of America wrote to the Chamber that they would still identify the nature and the exact extent of the problem, because it was not yet sufficiently sharp in sight? We should not go to college now, but start creating real care spots, because this delay is damaging to the people who need care and to the police who often feel that they are failing because they do not know where to take someone. And it's damaging to police capacity. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the past year the temperature in Dutch society has risen considerably. The polarization is increasing, fake news flourishes, demonstrations harden, journalists are being harassed and intimidating house visits are being made. And, of course, confrontational discussions are healthy. But intimidation is a violation of human rights. My group believes it is very important that this is dealt with more effectively, online and offline. We see that more attention and concern has come to the security of politicians and journalists who are part of an institute. That's very important and good. But we also hear from, for example, directors of organisations, high-profile figures in civil society and columnists that they lack this guidance. I understood that Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius was just talking about that. We hear that they feel alone and often do not know how to deal with these threats, where they can go. Recently it is possible to persuade the Chamber of Commerce not to sell your contact details, but that is very difficult and very often it does not succeed. And that's just not okay. I ask the Minister to identify how we can better protect such people, who are active in the democratic social debate. I, too, saw what was done in a proposal that was just made to appoint some sort of special unit of the police for this purpose. My question is whether the Minister sees anything in that. The case that NRC columnist Clarice Gargard had put up after she had gotten a lot of sexist and racist crap, shows that the Public Prosecutor's Office is allowed to step up its efforts to deal with online misery. Because it wasn't the D.A., it was Gargard's friends who plowed through 76,000 responses on the Internet and made sure that a number of people were convicted for discrimination and sedition. How does the Secretary of State view the role of the D.A.'s office now? Mr. Chairman. If you're gonna get justice, for example in civil proceedings, you're gonna have to have access to justice. Such access shall be impeded if the procedures are too complex or too expensive. Hence the amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van den Berge to reduce registry rights for citizens and SMEs. I have good hopes for broad support. For access to justice, it is also important that everyone who needs it is assisted by a lawyer. There must therefore be sufficient social lawyers to do so. The Minister for Legal Protection acknowledges that social lawyers are underpaid, but he has not improved their position. More and more people tell me they're having trouble finding a lawyer. If there's no lawyer, there's often no case. Now the Minister wrote to us gladly that the number of cases in which the government is party has decreased. But can it also be that people simply don't find a good lawyer anymore and that there will be fewer cases in this way? How does the Minister ensure that he keeps an eye on whether anyone who is looking for a lawyer has easy access to it? Finally, I have two questions concerning national security. My group continues to find it incomprehensible that we allow the Chinese company Huawei in important parts of the 5G network, rather than European companies such as Ericsson or Nokia. Just like we thought it was bizarre that Chinese Hytera now supplies our C2000 equipment, instead of KPN. Anyway, I don't just want to stand in the way, I want to look ahead. It is necessary that we, as the Netherlands and Europe, encourage trusted European suppliers to be and continue to be at the top of the world. This calls for a long-term industrial policy in which we encourage investment in European technology. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with his BZK colleague how we can stimulate the use of European technology by market participants, including for the auction of the rest of 5G? My second question to the Minister is whether he is still prepared to follow the WRR's recommendation and have a cyberdependence picture drawn up. In recent years, we have become too dependent on private parties for our vital infrastructure, which are also in foreign hands. It is important for our national security to identify this dependence and draw boundaries. Too often cybersecurity is just a party for the IT departments. But it's about strategic considerations. Would we find it acceptable, for example, if KPN Security were to come into foreign hands? As a national government, we do not have a good idea of how chains work and which parties depend on the functioning of vital processes in the Netherlands. Together with the VVD I am therefore considering a motion for a cyberdependence image, to get a clearer and more complete picture of the digital resilience of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik, also on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Waiting and looking away seems to me, after more than three and a half years, an appropriate motto for the policy on asylum and migration of this State Secretary and her predecessor. Wait and look away. Waiting for ten or so countries in the European Union to work to share fairly the refugees rescued from the Mediterranean in Europe. The only way we're gonna play is if everyone's in. Waiting for years when negotiations on a humane and effective European asylum policy are at an impasse, so that a lot of valuable time is wasted. And wait and see if the Moroccan ambassador, with whom you want to make agreements about taking back asylum seekers who have been tried and rejected, doesn't even bother to respond to your voicemail message. Wait and look away. Look away when the Libyan Coast Guard with our money picks up refugees and brings them back to one of the eleven criminal camps where they are tortured with impunity and where, like the Dutch doctor Aniek Crombach, who assisted on the Sea-Watch 4, only testified out of his own observation, many women, men and also minors are victims of sexual violence. "These camps must be closed immediately," said Minister Kaag about three years ago on behalf of the cabinet. What's going on with that, anyway? Is it justified to continue to support a coastguard who, by bringing them back, exposes people to this kind of violence? There is talk of looking away, even in the face of the appalling situation on the Greek islands. We're willing to take over 100 children, but don't ask me why that still hasn't happened. Look away from the hundreds of people drowning in the Mediterranean and the pushbacks off the Greek coast. Can the Secretary of State state indicate when we will honour our offer to take over 100 vulnerable people, which had to be negotiated so hard in the coalition? "Wait and look away" also seems to be the motto to its own IND. Everything was aimed at getting rid of the delays at the IND before the turn of the year, the Secretary of State assured time and time again. When the Task Force was set up in March. After reports in the Volkskrant of early August that it would be chaos at that task force. In a letter dated 7 September and a subsequent debate, in which the Secretary of State mentioned the elimination of the backlogs before the end of the year not "just a priority," but "one of my main priorities." The Secretary of State remembers. Even on 3 November, three weeks ago, another letter was sent to the mayors and the King's Commissioners, which literally stated that the task force is committed to fully eliminating the delays in the IND by the end of 2020, i.e. by the end of this year. Two weeks later, it turned out to be fake news. 8,000 cases finished, 7,000 to go, we read in the letter of 18 November. I didn't believe my eyes. What the hell happened in those two weeks? Has the Secretary of State been sleeping? Did the IND misinformed her? Or didn't she tell the Chamber what it must have known a long time ago? When did she hear about it? Has it not felt any wetness all these months and had the idea of informing the Chamber earlier about the collapse of one of its main policy priorities? I'm counting on a very precise answer. The new postponement now brings many asylum seekers, many of whom now have to wait about twenty months for the first interview, to despair. People who applied for asylum after 1 April are in the regular process and are now often ahead of those who are under the task force and who have had to wait so long. How do you explain that? What are the chances of further delays in the regular process? What is the plan now for dealing with the 7 000 remaining cases covered by the Task Force? How's the Secretary of State gonna get rid of that unrest? I also have a few important, but smaller points, which I would like to draw attention to. Firstly, the IND's assessment of the credibility of asylum seekers with an Ihbti identity. I believe it was Mrs Becker who also spoke about it. The Secretary of State is now going to investigate statements made by asylum seekers from Uganda who appear to be false. There are also examples of the opposite, namely that the credibility of asylum seekers who seem to have a very credible story when it comes to their identity, is negatively assessed by the IND. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to broaden the investigation she intends to carry out in response to the situation of the Ugandans to all cases, and therefore, for all cases, to look closely at the assessment that the IND is doing on the credibility of the story about sexual orientation. My final point is about statelessness. We have talked about this before. The Secretary of State has promised the Chamber on several occasions to come forward with a bill by last summer at the latest. That time is now behind us and I would like to ask her to come forward quickly with such a bill. Perhaps she will be able to make a firm commitment to this in her reply. Mr. Chairman. There's good news, too, and I'd like to close with that. This week, five mayors sent a letter on behalf of some 175 municipalities and five provinces to the Secretary of State asking for a discussion to make concrete agreements on the reception of vulnerable asylum seekers from the Greek islands. These 175 municipalities are of very broad political composition. About all political parties are represented in any way in their lectures of mayor and aldermen. In these 175 municipalities there seems to be support for this. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to start this discussion as soon as possible and to make concrete agreements on the reception of vulnerable Greek islands, which all the mayors are asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg will take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u60	I thought Mrs. Van Toorenburg was on her way to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u61	No, it's her turn now. She can sit next to me, 'cause she's hurt. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mr President. You should never cut slates on a stairs that aren't properly fixed. That's just stupid. But that doesn't mean I can't get in today with a stretched leg. I will, but I'm only doing it proverbial. Actually I am happy with what this cabinet has achieved, although I still have some notes on my vocals. I often talk about Internet crime in the Chamber. It keeps going on and on and every time it's gotten a different shape. Especially with the intelligent lockdown, homework and one-and-a-half-metre society, crime has moved on. There is a huge increase in internet crime, especially via the Internet and a very special form via the telephone. In addition, a con man pretends to be someone from the bank and picks his victim completely empty. Mrs Buitenweg has rightly already made a comment on this. It's very awful, because people then feel guilty too. I'm so stupid, they think. Not at all, we even see that the Team Undermining has not been able to secure its own phones properly. If they can't do it there already, how can I ask my mother to do it? The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance had talks with the banks. Good plans have been made, but I can still see that data sharing and cooperation remain the crux. The Chamber also had a conversation with the banks. There's still a pain point there. We would like to know how to make it easier to understand what is still necessary in the field of joint data processing to address internal summits in order to be able to operate effectively, and what are the bottlenecks that make the approach difficult under current legislation. Can the Minister say anything about that? Another point is the law of morality. That's also something I've been meddling in for years. I am grateful that the Minister for Justice and Security has started working on the special legislation on rape, but I am still curious when we can expect the proposal in the Chamber. I understand it's still pretty complicated financially how to maintain it. So I would like to hear when we can talk about that law, but it is very good that the Minister has picked up the glove. Of course, some very nasty things continue to happen. Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks has already made a good contribution to this. We are very concerned about a new form of appearance, the deepnudes. In Sunday with Lubach they showed where all these deep fakes can lead. Very nasty, but you can now also completely erase someone's clothes and then let someone participate in a porn movie. It's really horrible. I think it's really important that we see what we can do about it. We'd like to know what the cabinet will do about it. We also see, for example, that revenge porn destroys someone's whole life. That is why the cabinet has rightly dealt with this. People can hardly go on with it. You see some very nasty examples of that. Those deepnudes are also indistinguishable from real ones. How's the cabinet gonna work on this? Then I'm gonna talk about undermining. We often talk about the fact that good steps are being taken and that there is much more money for them. That's totally fine. But we do see a new form of appearance. We are very concerned about this form of appearance, which is that officials are being pushed into the corner at the moment. Criminals start proceedings against individual officials, who, of course, are beginning to feel completely insecure. What are we gonna do about it? In Brabant this is now being investigated. We want to know exactly how big this problem is. Are they incidents or is it a trend? How can municipalities arm themselves against this? We would like to hear from the cabinet how they stand next to the municipalities to resolve this. Then it is always an honor for me to speak about the focus of colleague Chris van Dam. He's in charge of investigating the supplemental affair today, and that's why I get to do it. He's the one who always breaks a lance for the police, but now I get to do it on his behalf. This cabinet has done a lot of work in the field of police. In terms of cooperation, too, a great deal has gone well. But there is also a point that is not working properly: cooperation in forensic detection. The triangle of police, NFI and OM, all high-level professionals, can hardly share the information. Their cooperation is still hampered by the systems that serve them, when we see that it is very important. They can do so much, but in that collaboration, it's always wrong. We would like to see a serious step taken in this chain cooperation for forensic detection. How does the Minister see this? What can he do about this? Then about the appreciation of the police, which is also a very important point. People are rightly given a bonus, because they have really stepped forward. That is something they have always done, but they do so in this complicated time, in which we all want to take a sneaky step back. When someone's waving a gun, we all run, but the cops go in. In the end, we must appreciate them for that. But on the other hand, if anything happens to the police, it's a little complicated. I'm talking mostly about PTSD. The cabinet has taken very important steps. There is a new regulation, because the Minister wants to deal with it properly, but then we have a pot of occupational diseases that I wonder if there is enough money in it. I am getting signals that this is not the case and that in the end we have to wait and see how much money is available for it. But that can't be the point, can it? For example, look at the new occupational disease tinnitus, which makes you hear a screaming beep in your ears. That's from gunshots, but it's also from hard fireworks. Is it the case that the police become dependent on the pot for occupational diseases to be compensated for this? I see all kinds of interruptions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u63	I see Mrs Helder and Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u64	I heard Mr Van Toorenburg speak about the proper bonus of €300 that the police get. Now there have been reports in the media of a youth movement in Amsterdam, which mentioned this €300 bonus for smacking people with whom you disagree. That's not supposed to be funny, but it's not funny. I haven't heard the Minister give up on that at all. He's been in the media a lot with all kinds of legislative proposals and interviews, but I didn't see the minister tweet about that, heard nothing about it, and didn't hear any comment about it in an interview. How does Mr Van Toorenburg feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u65	I thought it was freezing. I also thought, "Have they gone completely insane here?" But then I saw a very adequate action by the police, who reported it. I think it would be appropriate for a Minister of Justice to be cautious. But I can imagine that if we ask the Minister to indicate what he feels about this, he would very much like to say it. I think he's thinking exactly the same as you, because this is obviously not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u66	Yeah, rounding it up. The Minister should not do that here in plenary, nor should the corps leadership do that with a press release, but you have to get over that right away. We all have Twitter anyway. Respond to that. Even though the Minister had already done so, I see him shaking heavily, because he seems to be annoyed about the bonus. If only he had responded adequately to that immediately. Thank you for Mr Van Toorenburg's reply, but I should like to make this point in conclusion, because the Minister should have given up on that. It's way too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u67	When you look at it internationally, I don't know if we should be so proud of rulers who are freaking out every time tweeting. But if this minister thinks he should say something about that, I'd like him to do it in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u68	The SP liked that appreciation, that bonus for the cops, too. I just felt it was a bit harsh that it had to come from the police budget itself. That means that it was actually the salary of cops who aren't there. That it had to be paid out of the salary of colleagues who are not there, because there are too few cops, I found it very harsh. Anyway, about the police. I think there's a lot of trouble with the police. We know that 17,000 agents will be pouring out in the next few years, and we know that district agents are hardly in the neighborhood anymore. We're looking for a lot of people. My problem with this is that the Minister presents a far too rosy picture. He's sketching a far too optimistic picture. I like optimism, but I think it's a little misplaced. As if in 2024 we would have the occupation in order again! How are we supposed to get the police organization back on its feet when you look at the numbers I mentioned and at the Police Academy, whose budget has only shrunk over the last few years and where fewer people work? Do Mrs Van Toorenburg and the CDA share the fear that the picture is unfortunately too bright and that it would be good if we had a realistic vision of how to get the police base back in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u69	Of course it's annoying that the money comes from there. You'd rather have a big tree somewhere in the middle of a square in the capital, and then we can shake it very hard; then all that money swirls down and we can use it. But I don't know that tree. So yes, if money is spent on the police, it comes from the police budget somewhere. Unfortunately, it is. That is what I want to say. This cabinet has invested a lot more in the police. With each other, we're responsible for keeping picking that up. So I hope that every election programme, every political party here in this house, will say that extra money must be sent to the police, because that will have to be done. I totally agree with you. I also see that the district agents hardly get their important work on prevention that they have to do. I also see that the police really want to protect everyone, but they don't know where to look for it anymore. We see it again now New Year is coming and there is misery everywhere. The police hate it too. They can hardly do their job. So let's all write in our election programs that we want a lot more money for the police. Then perhaps we can add the deed to the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u70	Please continue, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u71	We can also show the police in another way that we appreciate them so much. That is a more symbolic way, namely with medal policy. We have a very nice policy with the police when someone transcending, in the national interest, has done something very special. First of all, I am curious to see how many times that medal has been awarded. But should we not particularly appreciate this great heroism when it has taken place at local level and when a local policeman has done something very special and perhaps has acted at risk for his own life to save someone? Couldn't we think of a very nice medal for that, too? I can't wait to see how the Minister looks at that. The CDA would very much like that. We also want something that we haven't been able to do for years, namely to give the police a role in the defilé on Veterans Day. There are all kinds of ifs and buts and all kinds of complicated things why that doesn't work out, but still we want something with it. Maybe we can think of something else. At least, Mr. Chris van Dam has come up with something else. He rightly states that Apeldoorn is the beating heart of the police in our country. A lot of people think about Apeldoorn in the police department. Couldn't we organise separate defilé for former police officers who have done fantastic work at home and abroad? Then we can also applaud them and show them how grateful we are for that. I would therefore like to know whether the cabinet is prepared to do so. Then I would like to draw my attention to the Minister for Legal Affairs. I'm gonna sit right on his skin about those lousy bootboxes in popular video games. How much longer do we have to stand together and watch our youth be poisoned? Why is the Gaming Authority still not enforcing against developers of these games? They have to understand that they have to take responsibility and that they no longer have to tempt young people to gamble. Eventually, people lose money. It's a terrible mess. I would like to know when the Ksa will stop just warning and at last impose fines. What also bothers us very much is that we have seen a concept vision of the Gaming Authority, in which they still pretend that the cabinet vision was the cabinet vision of Teeven. It wasn't supposed to get much crazier! We didn't wipe it off the table for nothing; it wasn't good. But the Gaming Authority says, also in conversations with partners, that the cabinet vision... and then they come up with all nasty bitch texts. That's not the point. So I would like to hear from the cabinet that it is no longer being looked at, because that cannot be the truth that we want something with each other. Finally, I come to the area of asylum and migration. That is also a very important point. I'm just gonna sneak in and make sure I haven't forgotten something. Usually I'm standing, and then I'm very keen to see if I've forgotten anything. No, I haven't forgotten anything. I come to the Department of Asylum and Migration of the Secretary of State. I can be brief about that, because we have already had several debates on it. The most important thing, of course, is that we expect the most from European cooperation. I also mentioned this in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Becker of the VVD. If this doesn't work, then we should be willing to think about a mini-Schengen. That's all at your service. But I think that the key lies first and foremost in Europe. That is what we have had the debates on. We would like to talk to this Secretary of State about the fact that it is very disturbing that the handling of asylum applications has still been totally blocked. We got a letter about that. And then I get this feeling of, "How is this possible?" How is it that such misjudgements have been made? Was that wishful thinking? Was it the ruler talking to the mouth? Or is the top of the IND so sung away from reality that they don't know what to tell the Chamber through the Secretary of State? I would like to know how it is possible that they have missed out on the execution. I am clarifying this point today, because it has very serious consequences. Eventually, our asylum seekers' centres are filling up and we know that no one in the Netherlands is waiting for a new asylum seekers' centre. Why is that? This is a, because it is not well distributed across the country. I'm really complaining about that here. I want an answer to the question as to how a few municipalities, look at Harderwijk and Dronten, will be able to accommodate more asylum seekers than all of South Holland and Zeeland combined. How does that even exist? It's all just slipping into the regions a little bit. They're gonna get the shit out of them. How big is this shit? Well, huge! Look at the reports from Overloon, where they don't even know what to do with all this trouble anymore. I do not understand that out of the 63 municipalities where these people are housed, but 10 municipalities received the extra funds reserved for nuisance municipalities. Even the chain marines didn't know where to find these resources. So I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she's going to solve this so that the money can be used where it's needed. I can't go back to the sunny south if I haven't asked a question here about the crepe situation in Overloon. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make one final point. We have indeed recently had a vote on Mr Baudet's motion. There was a lot of commotion about that. I think it's important to name it here with each other. As far as the CDA is concerned, there has never been any intention of criminalising the NGOs. On the other hand, however, we do not want NGOs to be excluded from criminality by definition. A Chamber-wide motion was also adopted on this, at the time by Mrs De Pater-van der Meer. Everyone has supported this motion. Otherwise, it will be a nice trick for smugglers to say: I did it as an NGO. As far as we are concerned, that was the thrust of this motion. But perhaps it is also good for all those organisations that are working daily for refugees and people who need help, to make it clear what the intention of the Secretary of State was when she gave this motion of censure Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u72	Thank you. You were afraid to talk about your time, but you have six and a half minutes left. Mr. Voordewind, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u73	I would like to get some clarification on that last point concerning the motion that the CDA supported. It is a good thing that Mrs Van Toorenburg nuances this, but the thrust of the motion was indeed to remove the rule of non-criminalisation of NGOs saving people at sea. That was the thrust of Mr Baudet's motion. That motion supported the CDA. Now the CDA says, "But we don't want that at all. We don't want to criminalize all those NGOs that do good work, but maybe we need to look at how this works. Are no human smugglers being helped?" Is that the CDA's port? Or is the CDA still fully behind the motion, saying: no, we really need to be able to criminalize NGOs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u74	No, we don't want to have an overall exclusion clause for anyone, so we don't want to have an overall exclusion clause for NGOs. No one at all. 'Cause, of course, we've seen a lot of trouble with the Sea Watch. We disagree on that, but we insist that it has really been a draining effect and has caused a lot of misery, and we do not want that. We do not want NGOs to be criminal by definition, on the contrary, because that would be quite a lot. Moreover, the whole international law of the sea, which we hold dear, is also very clear about this: if you see someone, you will, of course, save them. What do you mean you'd be a criminal for that? But the discussion was about whether that clause should be re-established in all kinds of arrangements so that they are never and never criminally liable. We want that clause out. That was the portrait of this motion and that is what we stand for, just as I believe we agreed at the time in the Chamber with the support of the Christian Union. That was also stated by our Supreme Court. That is not the least, and it has also indicated that there will always have to be customisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u75	If there is criminal activity in NGOs or on ships, then the judge is responsible. That was tried several times at Sea Watch, but failed. They've never been convicted of criminal activity. But the wallet of the motion was... if you turn it around, you say criminalizing is okay. The regulation as it stands in the proposal was: don't criminalise NGOs, i.e. don't blame them in advance for participating in criminal activities. The motion turned that around, and I was sorry to hear that. I voted against that, too, but that was the motion's port.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u76	That's why it's so important that these NGOs got into the rifle and that they said, "What's happening to us now, do you think we're a big mess of criminals?" That is why I myself am taking it up here today and saying: no, that was never the intention and that will never be the intention, but what we do not want is for the whole game to come on board again to rule out the NGOs by definition. That is, as far as we are concerned, the port of this motion. In my view, the Secretary of State understood her as well, otherwise she would never have given her a Chamber judgment. After all, she is not someone who thinks about these NGOs in such a way. That is why I think it is important that we discuss this again here today. In fact, we are still a little bit chewing on a motion that has rightly raised concerns, and then you must have the courage to address those concerns here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u77	Yes, I think that's very good. By the way, my colleague Niels van den Berge has done that debate, but this motion, which is still my question to Mrs Van Toorenburg, now calls on the cabinet to try to negotiate a certain passage in the migration pact. That passage says: international law obliges you, when you see a drowning man and you come there with your boat, to save that drowning man. That is what that passage in the migration pact says. So you can never criminalize people who save that because they save someone. That's what it says now. Mrs Van Toorenburg says: we only wanted to say that if you are doing criminal activities, you must be able to be prosecuted for that. Now I wonder whether she believes that there are, or should be, consequences for the negotiation of the cabinet in Brussels. Or does Mrs Van Toorenburg say: no, there have been misunderstandings, but I still support that passage? That's important, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u78	I think this cabinet's BNC sheet is very clear about that. We do not want an overall exclusion clause. That's what we're talking about. Of course, there are always bad texts in a motion from Forum, just as there are sometimes bad texts in a motion from the PVV. And then you can say "I'm never gonna vote in favour," just because sometimes there's a sentence in there that makes you wonder if it's that important. As far as we're concerned, it's about what you're sending the cabinet out with, and I'm very clear about that today. As far as we are concerned, there should never be an overall exclusion clause. We didn't want that as a room either. It threatens to get in there for a while, but I think it is important for the cabinet to stick to the principles that the Netherlands upholds, namely not an exclusion clause. The Supreme Court has indicated that if something goes wrong, the prosecution will act and the judges will look into it, and that space is sufficiently guaranteed in the Netherlands, and rightly so, because that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Mrs Kuik has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mr President, thank you. I will go into the areas of drugs, trafficking in human beings and prostitution. Shady figures look for the loopholes in the law and earn over the back of our young people's health. We're seeing the rise of designer drugs. The chemical composition gets changed a little bit and it gets a different name. Although it is virtually the same as the one prohibited under the Opium Act, 3-MMC "Poes" is legal for intimate. The fact that it is so easy and legal to obtain also does something with the perception of young people at risk: it will be easy; it is allowed. By the way, that's the same story as nitrous oxide. And that's when young people are actually their own guinea pigs. Standards are also crucial for young people. I would like to know from the Minister why as a Chamber we still have to wait for the amendment of the Opium Act because of new psychoactive substances. We give criminals far too easy a head start now. We need to be able to respond more quickly to nefarious situations to hinder them. If the standards are to be effective, according to the CDA, it is important to look at all the players in that drug chain, including the users. There are working cultures, like on the Zuidas, that are so physical that people snort to work longer. There are festivals where a pill appears to belong. But it's not normal to take a pill or a sniff. You finance the criminal world, with all the human rights violations and environmental pollution that goes with it. Drug criminals are pushing impressionable youngsters for their cart. One in ten of the schools questioned say they get signals of criminal exploitation monthly or even several times a month. The Zuidaser and the festival goers are supplied, while the future of these youngsters is at stake. It creates a further division in society and we cannot accept that. Corona is now also an opportunity for the new normal, also in the festival scene. Does the Minister see this? Cut with tolerance: take away and fine property. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the multi-headed monster of human trafficking and the abuses in prostitution. If we are to successfully tackle organised trafficking in human beings, we must have an organised approach from different perspectives and disciplines: not only the police, but also the municipalities and health care. That basis has been laid with the Plan Against Trafficking in Human Beings, but implementation is far too slow. I would like to encourage the Secretary of State to get on with his work in the last few months of this cabinet. We're still waiting on the law regulation sex work. The capacity of vice detectives, deployed by the Chamber, is not at the intended level. Ten years ago, the webcrawler was announced to facilitate the detection of exploitation, but it is still not in full use because of privacy. Surely it is too crazy for words how slow we can react to that criminal world, which uses the latest of the latest methods not to be caught? With our Dutch regulations, we are really better able to guarantee the privacy of criminals than the protection of victims. That's frustrating, even for crime fighters at the state's attorney's office and the police and for the aid workers, but most of all for victims. Then where are the bottlenecks in the webcrawler? Tell us. Then we know what we need to adjust. Mr. Chairman. If you're not looking, you don't see human trafficking. It's a hit-and-run. There is hardly any sight on the most vulnerable group of minor victims of sexual exploitation. The national rapporteur is committed to getting a picture of victims, but because of lack of funding, he cannot do his job in full. I ask the Secretary of State: this cannot be the intention, can it? In addition, the threshold for victims of exploitation to seek help is often high. Chat functions lower that threshold. That's what we see in Fier's chat function, where victims tell their stories about their exploitation situation through the chat for the first time. Nevertheless, such a broad chat function is not an integral part of the Together Programme against trafficking in human beings, while one of the objectives is to identify victims quickly and adequately and to provide the necessary care and support. The Secretary of State is the trigger of this program. Such a chat function is important from different ministries. How is she going to make this a permanent part of the programme and ensure this? Mr. Chairman. Forced prostitution exists because there is an entire chain that makes this possible. And a crucial link in this chain, in my view, is also the weakest link, the customer and it hardly feels the consequences. Recently, a man who had paid sex with a 16-year-old girl only got one more day in jail and then another community service. Look, this isn't how we're gonna scare customers off. The Secretary of State is in the process of carrying out a motion to deal with customers, but when are we going to see that in practice? Mr. Chairman. In human trafficking cases, the customer is still seen far too much as by-catch, and that has to be changed. He should be much more of a target. In doing so, a full criminalisation will help, something that is not covered by human trafficking Article 248b for clients of under 16. This is a loss, and it is also apparent from signals from practice. I would like the bill to regulate sexual crimes that paid sex with 16-miners is punishable and to include the age of up to 21 in the Wrs. Because all those links in that human trafficking story, in that trafficking chain, we have to deal with, just like that customer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are indeed discussing the last budget of these ministers today. As far as I am concerned, that is a moment to take stock of the situation. We were given a Minister for Justice and Security who, with his booklet Rafels to the rule of law, had set the bar very high for himself. And we got a Secretary of Law for the first time. So there, too, expectations were high. But we also need to take stock of ten years of Prime Minister Rutte, ten years of VVD policy at the Ministry of Justice and Security. What has ten years of Rutte's premiership brought our country in terms of security and detection, the state of the police and the rule of law? Is justice here for everyone? The common thread is, in my view, the hardest conclusion that much more investment is needed in all kinds of areas, much more investment. That's actually very sad. We're gonna get all kinds of election promises later. It was referred to again. That raises the question: why do we wait when we see that the need is so high? Let me start with the police. There are far too few cops and detectives to do their job properly. They are not sufficiently enabled by us, and that is a very bad thing. There are too few colleagues, there is too much workload, too much bureaucracy. You can see that neighborhood cops barely get into the neighborhoods in some neighborhoods because they're being pulled away from emergency services. Then how can you know people in the neighborhoods and also be known by those people from the neighborhoods? Why do we let that happen? My question is to the Minister. I believe that the Minister also gives a far too rosy picture of the state of the police and what the police organisation will look like in 2024, as if the occupation is in order. I would like it to be, but if we are honest then we have to establish that this is very likely not to be the case. If you look at the outflow figures, 17,000 police officers will be leaving the police organization in the next few years. And if you look at the influx figures, which are not achieved year by year, and if you see that the investments in our police education are lagging behind, then that doesn't exactly add up to the rosy image that the minister is always sketching. Why do we still count aspirants fully when we know that they are only 20% usable? Why is the police screening not in order? In short, can the Minister give a realistic picture of the police organisation in the year 2024? Let's be honest about that. That's important for the discussion, isn't it? At the state's attorney's office, there's a lot of trouble. There too, there are too few colleagues and too few people, and there is too much work that lacks money. That's actually pretty much the same story. There are piles of things waiting on the shelf. Stacks of files. These are not piles of papers; they are people. These are people who are victims of abuse, of threats and sometimes even of sexual offences. Those victims are waiting for justice, if ever there will be. I don't blame those hard-working people in the police department or at the D.A.'s office. That is the result of political choices, or rather the result of political choices that were not made but should have been made. Does the Minister recognise that substantial investments are also needed in the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to get the basics in order? All this is happening at a time when organised crime, which has already been mentioned a great deal today, has taken very serious forms. A lawyer was murdered, Derk Wiersum. A key witness's brother was murdered. There have been many more innocent victims. Many people are threatened and need to be protected by services that actually lack the capacity to do so. Why, then, do we not allow the people on the frontline to tackle organised crime properly? Why wait for new investments if you already hear from various parties and can read in their programmes that new investments are needed? And what about prevention? How do we prevent the street thugs from becoming hardened criminals? One of the explanations for the fact that organised crime has been able to take such serious forms is that crime still pays off. Crime just pays off. Still do. Almost all offences are about money, but the search is still not sufficiently about money, despite all the requests that we always make. Now follow the money, follow the money. Go get it from those white-collar criminals, too. There's just not enough going on there. There aren't enough financial detectives. There is still too little cooperation with, among other things, the FIOD. We need to invest much more in that. One of the many proposals made by the SP together with GroenLinks, among others, is to invest in more financial detectives, because crime does not pay. There are also considerable delays in the case-law. And they were already big, but Corona has only made them worse. That's a big problem. People also have the right to a quick right. In fact, we need a lot more judges and supporters. And it's been said, you don't just open a can of judges. No, that's right, so if we keep doing what we've already done and let's train people, that's very good, of course. It's gonna take years before we have judges in that place. Actually, I don't think we have that time. It has to be careful, but I am going to ask the Minister for Legal Protection to discuss with the Council for Justice whether it might be an option to look at the most experienced top academics in the courts, who work there in support and in the courts, and see if you can give them an appointment as a judge, and at the same time put them into training, so that you can recruit more supporters. It may be an unconventional idea, but I would still be happy to discuss whether that might be a possibility. It also gives those people perspective, so that they do not leave justice, which unfortunately is often the case now. I'd like a response from the Minister. And when people are punished, we have to ensure that those people actually return to society as better people, not as worse people. Combating relapses is preventing victims. But safety is human work. We don't just change that with laws and rules. We must also ensure that there are enough people working within the walls of the prisons, that the probation has enough people to do so, that the workload is not too high in the case of forensic care. There are many problems here too, so the SP has also submitted a proposal on this point. Mr. Chairman. In that case, I have already, slowly, been moved to the Minister for Legal Protection's policy area. When we take stock of the rule of law, access to justice, it almost makes me a little sad, were it not that it makes me particularly combative? Let me just say: I actually think that the Minister for Legal Protection really did not make much of it on that point. In fact, he should not bear the title "Minister for Legal Protection" as far as I am concerned. Access to justice is the foundation of our rule of law. Everyone has a right to rights. And if people can't make it to justice, then there will be injustice. From day one, this minister had the report of the Van der Meer committee on his desk, which clearly showed that social lawyers receive far too low remuneration; that they really have to work hours, sometimes 40 hours, to get paid for 10 hours. The Minister knows that, and he didn't really do anything about it. Instead, he came up with a controversial reform of the system, in which there was actually only one good part, namely the reduction of cases against the government. And from all kinds of sources we know that at that point it's not going to work either, unfortunately. That is really very unfortunate, but at that point, too, the only good point in the programme, it is now failing. It is also politically controversial. And I predict that this system review of the Minister will never happen. But then this director of the VVD, a professional, made sure that for years what should have been done was not done, namely a reasonable remuneration for social lawyers. The Minister's plans only increase inequality. Social lawyers leave the system, and you'll lose them for good for legal aid to people who can't afford expensive lawyers. Offices are going bankrupt right now. And we just see that people with legal problems, against the government itself, against their employer, against the landlord or against an ex in a divorce, as long as the VVD hasn't abolished that, can't find a lawyer to run their case anymore. We're just gonna leave the judge in the cold right now. I hear from lawyers that they're the 35th person called by people on a divorce case. How could the Minister let this happen? It's unbelievable. I would like to offer a black book, which I wrote together with the Dutch Association of Social Lawyers, in which I collected the signals from lawyers. And it's not even complete yet; I've kept it brief. But I want one thing from the Minister: I really want him to read this whole thing this evening again, I have kept it brief and that he will come forward with a response tomorrow, not to let that drain from social law and the breakdown of legal aid happen, to stop doing so, and to make a commitment tomorrow that he will finally be working as Minister for Legal Protection, and that he will resolve these serious problems. Get that reasonable compensation for the social attorney. Because if only rich people can get their rights, then we get class justice in the Netherlands, and this Minister for Legal Protection cannot let that happen. And it is also important that the law can take place nearby, for example in Houses of Law, as proposed by the SP. One House of Law has already been established in Heerlen, partly thanks to a mayor who was very passionate about it, and a court president in South Limburg. But it has to be in many more places. In fact, I think that the ambitions of this Minister have always been supported by various parties, which are far too lean. There's just too little going on. There's not enough money on it. It is precisely in this corona time, in which many more digital procedures take place, that we see how important it is for everyone to be able to participate, not just the people who are digitally skilled, not just the people who are very self-reliant. In fact, in every city and village, you should have a place where people can go to explain what their problem is, to get help or the right referral and to make use of the facilities to process, if necessary, digitally. It makes so much sense, but there is actually far too little going on in that regard. That brings me to a number of other points, Mr President. One of them is the protection of our privacy. The importance of a strong Personal Data Authority has already been explained by Mrs Buitenweg. The delays are too great. They should be eliminated, because at the moment, as a privacy breacher, you actually have very little to fear from our privacy watchdog, who we have just given too little teeth. That's a really big problem. I would ask the Minister to invest heavily in this. If he does not agree, the Chamber can vote in favour of Mrs Buitenweg's and me's amendment. I have one more question about that. The privacy watchdog should monitor privacy violations of all people, of all companies and of all ministries. Think, for example, of the Tax Administration, of what has been done to the victims of the premium affair. Maybe that would have been discovered a long time ago if our privacy watchdog had gotten his affairs in order and had some impact. Then why is only the Justice Department paying for this? Wouldn't it make more sense to have other ministries pay as well? It has also been about bank fraud. I call the problem of spoofing. Banks are there for our society. They're here to secure our savings and to settle our financial affairs neatly. But criminals take advantage of the trust people have in banks. You get a call from your bank, at least, you think, because that number is there, but it turns out it's a criminal who takes away all your savings and locks it away. You're supposed to have done that act yourself. But people can't do anything about that. That too has been said here today. Kassa has shown that, Radar has shown that; we just know what that is. What do some banks do? They leave victims in the cold like hell. I really don't think that's possible. That's not fair. It can't be like that. Today, following the example of other parties, the SP wants to call on the Minister to resolve this and ensure that banks will compensate the victims and that the money is taken from those criminals. Crime can't pay off, I'm just gonna say it again. It has also dealt with the importance of tackling child abuse and keeping the Internet clean of child pornography. We have no political difference of opinion on this, but if so, how can it be that the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse is threatened in its survival because of insufficient finances? Then I say to my fellow Members: this is really a problem that we must at least solve in the two days we are having this debate; we must change this in the budget of this minister. One more question about the LEBZ, the National Expertise Group of Special Vices. There is a social and scientific discussion about this at the moment. There's been a motion of the SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA to investigate. I am considering putting it to the vote next week, because I really think we should take this seriously. People have drawn our attention to this. We received a petition about it yesterday as a committee. As a Chamber, let us express our opinion on the importance of such an investigation. Then there is the subject of adoption, quite another matter. In the case of cross-country adoptions from the past, things have gone wrong. There's an investigation into that. We'll have to wait and see. But in the meantime, the things of the people who have held the licence holder liable will be time-barred. That is because the limitation period, the civil limitation period, begins to run at the time of adoption. That's how we settled it in civil law. But the moment the adoption took place, it was a small child, often even a baby. They're doing a lot of things, but they're not doing court cases and gathering evidence. So I do not think that is fair. I don't think that's possible. So, on behalf of Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, I propose today either to abolish that limitation period or to at least start running it only at the time the adopted 18 becomes, because then you will fully realize what happened. We are, of course, considering a motion on this point too. Finally, the subject of cults. It is estimated that about 80 sects are still active in the Netherlands and still cause a lot of casualties. Well, we had a hotline for that, but very against the meaning of the SP, that hotline, Sect Signal, has been cut off. That point is now missing. I get a lot of reports about that from people who ask for help. Experts are getting a lot of reports about that. People just don't know where to go anymore. According to the Minister, they can go anywhere to the police, but there is not always the right expertise. There must therefore be one more point where victims and family members can get help and be referred to and collect signals per sect in order to improve this approach. I am also proposing this on behalf of Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD. And all the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. This may have become a pessimistic story, because I think it has to be very different in many respects. This is the result of ten years of Prime Minister Rutte in the field of security and the rule of law. But the good news is that other political choices are possible. The SP's already filed a bunch of them. And we will continue to do so, in the interests of security, in the interests of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk. This is the second budget I'm going through, Mr. Jasper Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u84	Yes, Chairman, this is one of my lovers. I was just watching: what an impressive list of speakers is coming along today!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u85	Yes. So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u86	So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u87	So far, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u88	It's a list of some famous duos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yeah, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u90	For example, I call it Yeşilgöz/Becker: real crimefighters, who live up to their name on behalf of the VVD! But I have to say: the duo Van Nispen/Van Dijk can do some of this. Watch me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u91	That's right. Well, let's see it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Van Nispen. You want to make it a happy story, but then you look at the policy and then you just can't. It's just crap. There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u93	You started out so nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u94	Exactly. I spent the whole night thinking, "How can I give that a happy twist?" And then I come up with this. But you know me, Mr President: when it comes to content, I am always very happy. Mr. Chairman. Asylum policy is raging on all sides, both at home and abroad. First, inland. The so-called asylum chain is so called that it is completely stalled. I have heard it from other speakers. Mrs Van Toorenburg, for example, said so. So you're talking about the IND, where the asylum seekers apply. Then you're talking about the COA, where the people are in the asylum seekers' centers. And you're talking about housing. The delays at the IND are really frightening. 15,000 cases were due to be completed this year, but there are 7 000 remaining. The Secretary of State has quite frankly this week: I can't do it. She calls it very painful herself. And it is, not least for the asylum seekers themselves who have been waiting months for their conversation. 7,000 things lie still; a disgrace! And there is also a shortage of beds in those asylum seekers' centres. 5,000 places have to be searched, but we see the azc's closing their doors. Municipalities waive the reception of new asylum seekers. How is that possible? You need more places, don't you? Can you explain to us tomorrow how this is going in the negotiations with these municipalities? These churches say: no, we don't want it anymore; we don't want a new azc. The Secretary of State has an acute problem. And then, last but least, housing. This year 12,000 status holders are waiting for housing and next year 27,000 more will be added. For all these people, a home must become an impact, while there is a housing crisis. In short, delays with the IND, a shortage of beds and a shortage of housing. What does the Secretary of State think? Why should we believe her new promises, which she will undoubtedly make tomorrow, now? Earlier promises have obviously not been fulfilled. It can't be. May I remind her of a plan I gave earlier to her predecessor but which is actually just as topical now? That's why I want to offer it to her now. It contains four proposals for a fairer distribution of refugees across the Netherlands, with four recommendations. Ensure that rich and poor municipalities contribute proportionally to reception, distribute refugees fairly within municipalities, create small-scale reception locations and provide a buffer to respond to new influx. That's what it's been missing over the past few years. It was thought: well, it's not that bad with the inflow; we can close those azc's and the number of beds. And now we have big deficits. I offer it, Mr President, so that the current Secretary of State can also take note of it. Please. Get on with it and avoid emergency care. Mr. Chairman. And then the problems with the IND. According to Refugee Work, there will be a shortage of resources next year, because you promised that these delays would be resolved this year, but that did not work. Now they must be eliminated next year, but the budget will be cut. Is that correct, I ask Secretary of State, and is it for that reason willing to embrace my amendment for additional resources at the IND, so that there is sufficient staff? Then abroad, to Europe, where there are also major problems with care. What about the migration pact offered by the European Commission? Any lineup yet? Is there any consensus within Member States? I'd like an update. And what about the reception of refugees from the Greek islands? We know that after the terrible fire in Moria, the cabinet decided to catch 100 people. It was a sloppy number, but let's go, it's 100 people. But is my observation true that no one has yet come to the Netherlands? Despite the fact that Germany and other countries have already received people from Moria, from the Greek islands, but the Netherlands have not yet. Then why is that? Why does Germany and the Netherlands not? Is that because the Netherlands imposes certain requirements, for example that they must be children of no more than 14 years old, preferably girls? Can you respond to the most recent article by Ingeborg Beugel, journalist of De Groene Amsterdammer: The Netherlands does not act in the interest of the minor refugees, but of its own interest? It was published this morning on groene.nl. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, four points. There are concerns about the increased language requirement in the naturalization test. Tens of thousands of people can't naturalize because of this. See Tamar de Waal's article in yesterday's NRC. I'd like a response. Is the Secretary of State prepared to apply more customization to that naturalization test? That is also stated in my requested motion 32824, No. 308, which I'd like to put to the vote. Then there is the letter about Mr Al-Showaikh, who was expelled to Bahrain. He was tortured and now he's in prison. How can the Secretary of State insist that this has been carried out in an orderly manner? I would like a reply to the letter from RefugeeWork, which indicates that the person wanted to leave for another country, namely Iran. And then two questions to Minister Dekker. Can marriage exploitation be housed in human trafficking? Mrs Becker said something worthy about that. Please respond to my continued motion 35413, No. 5. Finally. The Minister wants to increase the amount that bailiffs can charge by 16%. Is that wise now in this corona time, in which people are already having a hard time, in poverty and in debt? I'm considering a motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then I will go to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the end of August this year I visited Warsaw. I wanted to talk to the people who suffer daily from the violation of the Polish rule of law. As you know, the government party PiS is trying to bring the judiciary into line in Poland and the right to a fair trial is therefore under considerable pressure. There is political interference in the appointment of judges. Judges who do try to exercise their profession independently can be reprimanded and punished by a new disciplinary chamber. So is Judge Igor Tuleya, whose immunity was lifted last week. I was supposed to meet him and his lawyer at a restaurant, and when they arrived at the table where I sat down, that lawyer was pretty upset. Mr Tuleya had been aggressively attacked just before that restaurant, the effect of a hate campaign, fed by PiS. Mr Tuleya himself remained stoic. However, the fact that the independent judge is often the first victim when the pressure on the rule of law increases became so creepy clear to me, and that only 800 kilometres away. Poland is in our European Union. The question is: what are the EU and the Netherlands actually doing to stop that? Sure. Steps are being taken. The European Commission has launched a number of infringement proceedings. The rule of law mechanism seems to be a step forward if it continues, as it is also under pressure. The question is whether it is enough. The Polish problems also affect the Netherlands. The Amsterdam Court of Justice has asked questions to the European Court of Justice: can we still hand over Polish suspects and convicted persons? This also affects the Netherlands, the concrete rot in the Polish rule of law. To quote the former Vice-President of the Council of State, Mr Donner, "We must be certain of each other's rule of law. If that doesn't work anymore, the whole thing is potentially collapsing." The question is therefore whether it is not time for the Netherlands itself to take legal action. Our Constitution states that the Netherlands promotes the international legal order. This is also part of the enforcement of agreements made. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Legal Protection: can the Netherlands, for example, initiate proceedings against Poland under Article 259 of the EU Working Convention for failure to comply with an obligation under the Union Treaty? I'd like a comprehensive response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is not Poland. The rule of law here is strong and resilient, but there are problems. The decline in registered crime and victimisation between 2009 and 2019 is a good and actually quite impressive development, but the impact of organised crime, which with its huge criminal profits threatens to corrupt the upper world, is worrying. We should also pay attention to the distressing situation of core institutions such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the legal profession. After the 2008 crisis, hard cuts were made by the Rutte I and II Cabinets, and there was too little investment in innovation. If you look from a distance at all the rich budgets, you can see that all the economic growth this year is actually absorbed by care and social security. The rule of law seems to suffer from this. I therefore believe that it is valid to ask the question: can our rule of law also cost a little? How does the Minister of Justice view this? How does he intend to keep the rule of law financially sound in the future? I'd like a response. We see that the workload has also increased. This is not so much the result of an increased number of cases, but above all of a change in types of cases. They've become more complex. Moreover, the expectations of society have increased, for example with regard to the rights and treatment of victims. These are often understandable developments, but it brings with it a lot of extra work, time and complexity. Politics must also look at itself. All the rapidly changing priorities that are given to police and prosecutors are not helping to carry it all out properly. You'll see the problems in the criminal justice chain. The action plan we received last week contains good choices, but it also implicitly recognises the problems: a lack of cooperation in the chain and opposite incentives. As a result, the chain does not function optimally. Let me make no mistake about it. I believe that organisations in the chain should have their own responsibility when it comes to judgment. The police are in charge of tracking, the D.A.'s office is in charge, and the judges are independent. The overarching question is: how can you organise this criminal justice chain smartly in a society that is changing so quickly? What I do not think is helpful is increasingly consultative structures. For the undermining crime, I prefer to call it organized crime, we have the Strategic Board Undermining, the Chasing Team Undermining, the National Consultation Security and Police and the Strategic Board Security. We have the LIEC, the RIEC and recently a separate dg. So it is quite crowded everywhere, but often not on the workplace, where the work has to be done. My question to the Minister of Justice is how he is going to take out the opposite incentives in the chain. How is he going to ensure that these organisations really work together better, preferably without endless consultation structures, but with a common objective? I'd like a response. This cabinet has certainly taken good steps in recent years, with investments in the police, justice, forensic care, the removal of a cut in the public prosecutor's office and a small investment in legal aid. But there's still a lot to do. In the long term, I believe that there is a particular need for stable funding. But we can also take steps in the short term, for example in the case of legal aid. Social lawyers, especially in personal and family law, are having a hard time. I would very much like to hear from the Minister for Legal Protection whether there is any money left in legal aid this year, so that we can help this group in particular next year. Another challenge is cybercrime. I believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg also spoke about it. A lot of crime is still classic: burglaries, robberies and destruction. Cybercrime isn't. It is one of the areas where crime is growing. Corona has made that even worse. The government is struggling to keep pace with developments in this area. There's been investments, especially with the police, but for example, the D.A. really needs more cyber officers. Does the Minister share that assessment and, if so, how can he solve this problem? Mr. Chairman. To close the Justice Department, I'm gonna stay with the State's Attorney's Office for a while. The Minister may intervene in individual criminal matters in the Netherlands. He may order prosecution or search. I have become more and more surprised over the past few years. Can it be justified for a political minister to intervene in an individual criminal case? Does the Minister have the right to say that one person must be prosecuted and the other not? I don't think so, actually. I have therefore put forward an initiative proposal to remove this special power of designation and the associated obligation to provide information. It is then up to the court to assess the actions of the prosecution in a specific case. I put that proposal into consultation today. I have it here and would like to ask the messenger to share it with the colleagues. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on. No, I'm not going because I see Mr. Van Nispen standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u97	Yeah, me too. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u98	Let me do something unusual: let me compliment the spokesperson of D66 on the fact that he is making an initiative law on an important subject. We have seen that over the past few years it has been very hard on this subject, on Shell's case and possible interference from the Ministry, on the Wilders case in the Ministry's interference. To what extent does Mr Grothuizen's initiative respond to this type of objection? That's what I like to hear about. I have another question that I'd better take with me right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u99	You'd only make a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u100	Yeah, that's true. But I will also ask a very reasonable question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u101	Would you be very kind in putting it into words?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yeah, sure. We will soon have Mr Van Dijk, of course! My question concerns legal aid. I think it is right to ask whether there is some money left this year and whether we can put it where the need is greatest. That is indeed in the case of compensation for the legal profession of persons and family. Suppose it's a couple of millions; I don't know, but I hope so. Does Mr Groothuizen recognize that this is far too little and that a subsequent cabinet should actually respect this minister, because his work has finally been carried out in accordance with the conclusions of the Van der Meer Committee? Does he also think that the Minister should at least leave behind what it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u103	Question one: yes. We know the business Shell, Wilders and international developments. We saw again yesterday a new judgment of the European Court of Justice confirming that the power of designation does not entirely constitute an independent judicial authority. This leads to problems with the European Arrest Warrant. All these developments have led me to table this bill. So it's a conglomerate. I think that the essence of the problem is not so much the use of the designation power, because it rarely happens. But the fact that that competence exists and that the prosecution also goes to the department with sensitive matters to inform the minister, because otherwise he cannot fulfil his responsibility, leads to all kinds of crazy things happening, namely that officials are going to think along and that there is a whole circuit. I'm not going to repeat everything, because you can read it. I think we should get rid of that. I hope that this bill will contribute to this. The answer to the second question: yes, I think more is needed. I told you, we took a small step. That was quite a fight. But we're not there yet. I think it takes extra money and that is why it is in our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mr. Azarkan, a very short question. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u105	I am as a wash in your hands: a very short question. I find it very interesting what Mr Groothuizen says. I saw it come by on Twitter about five hours ago. So I was already a bit informed. Can Mr Groothuizen briefly explain that I also give him what he means when he says that a ruler cannot intervene in an individual case in relation to the information that should come from a ruler? In the Wilders case, that was fully investigated and concluded that nothing showed that anything other than that the legal right to information had been respected, and no further interference. How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u106	It's true. The Court also found in that case that it sees no reason for political interference. I don't see it either. What we have seen, though, has become crystal clear, including from all the information we have received, is that all kinds of civil servants are going to make all kinds of movements. They do this because they were aware of that case because of the existence of the power of designation and the information obligation of the College to the Minister on that matter. People are gonna talk about it and think about it. You're gonna have a really weird mix-up. In the Wilders case, that led to a whole discussion. In the earlier Wilders case, we saw that the then Minister of Justice was out of my mind for a moment that Hirsch Ballin said three times: I have doubts about a decision by the Public Prosecutor and I want an expert to look at it. I don't think it's a mix-up. So it's not so much about the real use of this designation power, because that doesn't happen so often, but more about the informal effect it has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u107	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u108	I don't see the Minister showing a lot of enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u109	He's working on other things. He's listening. Leave him alone a little bit. He's a little grumbling, but he can't say anything back. That's kind of annoying. Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u110	I'm not sure it's for this spokesperson or the next spokesperson, but I haven't heard D66 say anything about drug crime. Does D66 also see that this division exists in society, where young people are recruited to bring drugs and the festival goer and the Zuidaser use them nicely without feeling the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u111	I do not know if that is a division, but there is, of course, a clear link between use and the fact that there is production and trade. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u112	The question is therefore whether D66 sees the importance of tackling the user in order to effectively reduce drug crime, as the user maintains it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u113	I'm not sure what you mean by "attack." I do see reason to point out to people who use drugs that it is usually not made by people with the best intentions and under good conditions, but usually by criminals in a nasty barn in Brabant who let their waste flow away somewhere. I don't think you should initiate a hunt for the user. You're not getting along with that, and it's gonna have a lot of nasty side effects. Nor should we ignore the fact that a lot of drugs that are grown or produced in the Netherlands go abroad. We should not tell ourselves that we have solved the problem by restricting demand in the Netherlands. That would be too easy a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u114	I think we left this part, addressing the user, in the Netherlands all the time. There's a whole chain of drug crime. The user can simply take a pill at a festival and the enforcers can not intervene well enough. It is precisely by taking it away and punishing property that enforcers can act much more effectively against drug crime and possession.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u115	I think you're making the same mistake now by narrowing it down. I don't think it's a user-trade production story. There is production and a large part of it goes abroad. This applies both to hemp and to synthetic drugs. The massive amount of cocaine imported into the Netherlands and Belgium also goes abroad to a large extent. The user is part of the cycle, but we should not have the illusion that if we tackle the user, we have solved this problem. Together with Mr Bergkamp, I think a year ago I made a manifesto in which we tried to make this a little broader. I think that broadening is important. You have to try to work together internationally to see if you can really shift that course, think about what drugs are most harmful, do something with the users, keep fighting organised crime, but you also have to try to work on international support for a really different approach. Because I also see more and more police and prosecutors saying: we are not going to solve it with a pure war on drugs either. That's an opinion I share.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u116	I'd like to join you, because we've ended up with the right spokesperson. I wanted to start with that manifesto called "I'm worried." I am also concerned, not only about the challenges we face in our rule of law, but above all about the cause of all the misery, and he is in drug crime. The liquidations that we see affect the legal profession and the justice system. I would ask for a reflection from Mr Groothuizen. Because one of the arguments in that manifesto was: we're going to legalize drugs and we're going to set up a state committee to reform our entire drug policy. What is Mr Grothuizen's reflection on the report put forward by Mr Noordanus of the Strategic Board Undermining, which clearly says: a pact for the rule of law, but not legalisation? Can Mr Groothuizen comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u117	I think I just did, but I'd like to do it again. I think they're multiple tracks. It is tackling organised crime and not having the illusion that if you are going to take steps towards legalisation and regulation, you will be done with it. Because then you forget about the international market. Other countries where steps are being taken also show that you really have to make an effort to deal with this and also to protect the legal part. You shouldn't be naive about that. I can see that naivety sometimes. On the other hand, we shouldn't think that, if we're going to go down hard on the users, we've solved the problems. People just want to use crap. That has been the case for decades and we have not been able to control it internationally for decades. You want something with that, too. I think it's en-and-and-and. To be honest, I did not find the conclusion of the manifesto so shocking: setting up a state committee to give it a long thought. But I understand that Mrs Van der Graaf has some other associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u118	I know that if D66 doesn't realize his real goal yet, ripping off a state committee is always an option as an intermediate step to who knows what else. I know D66 is in favour of you capturing the right to enjoyment, but I hear... yeah, I think they wrote that down somewhere in their election program or something. That's what's gonna happen. I'd say that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u119	I don't know. I'm very much in favour of it. At least I'm gonna enjoy a beer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u120	You're for the right to happiness. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u121	I'd like that, too, right to happiness. Let's get back to the heart of the matter. Legalization is not the solution. I hear D66 saying: we explain the red carpet, come here, Mexicans, come here, Colombians. That's D66's answer to drug crime. That can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u122	I do not know exactly where Mrs Van der Graaf gets this summary. I think I have a rather nuanced argument. I don't rule out the fact that some people in my constituency think it's too nuanced, but I don't think this is what I'm saying. Mrs. Van der Graaf is afraid of the Mexicans, but they're already here. Because they're already in Brabant playing those pills. I happened to ask questions about that to the Minister two years ago when those signals came. She thinks we've explained the red carpet, but they're already here. Those drugs are there, they enter the ports and will continue to enter the ports as long as people need and are willing to pay for them. I think Mrs Van der Graaf should face the fact that the simple fact that we ban this kind of means means that you give the market, which is there, into the hands of criminals. Those aren't usually the people you want to give the market to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u123	I can only conclude that with a plea for legalization, an important part in that manifesto, you are making a spread cot. I hear a certain inconvenience in Mr Groothuizen's reaction, and I am glad to see that, because I hope that he, and with him, D66, will stand side by side to tackle this crime. They're already here, but we need to increase our chances of getting caught. Colleagues have already mentioned this. They're already here, but we want them gone, please. And then we certainly shouldn't explain the red carpet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u124	You're not hearing any discomfort. It's just complex matter. Then the answer is not: we are going to legalize it, because then we have solved the problem. But the answer is not either: we are going to deal with the users and then we have solved the problem because then there will be no more use and then we will forget about the international market. So it's not so much an inconvenience, but it's like asylum and migration, which I'm about to talk about, which is an extremely complex problem that you can't solve one-two-three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u126	That brings me to the issue of migration, about complex problems. An African saying is: if you want to go fast, go alone; if you want to get far, go together. Going together on this subject is certainly not easy. The subject of migration is complex and sensitive. Emotions often prevail, and the debate is very often about incidents and not about solutions. In a recent vote on the European Migration Pact, 13 of the 17 motions were rejected. It's a sign of the lack of agreement in the Chamber. I think that's problematic. If you really want to tackle this issue, cooperation is necessary. Mr. Chairman. One of the themes on which we should find each other is, I think, good implementation. That brings me seamlessly to the IND. The waiting times are huge. That sounds bureaucratic, but it has great consequences for people. People with a good chance at asylum are waiting a long time for a decision. In the meantime, they're on the sidelines. That's not good for them and it's not good for us. Mr. Chairman. That piece of text was an exact copy of my text from last year. That makes it painfully clear that we haven't made enough progress. This was also apparent from the letter from the Secretary of State to the Chamber last week. She had to admit that the task force was unable to work out the backlog this year. I can't say I was really surprised, but I was disappointed. The letter raises the necessary questions. The Secretary of State often refers to the coronavirus. I understand that doesn't help, but the virus was there when the task force started on April 1st. Other parts of the letter also create some surprise. The Secretary of State writes: "It appears that the task force needs more intensive guidance than was taken into account. Final decision on asylum applications is a subject for which there is no school." Well, I think we could have drawn that conclusion in advance. It is also concluded that the expected acceleration from September does not bring the acceleration that had been hoped for. All this raises the question of whether there is a much too rosy picture. I'd like a reflection on that point of the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The question is also whether this too rosy presentation of things is still being given. Between now and the end of this year, we would still have 1,800 cases to deal with. How realistic is that actually, I ask the Secretary of State. The regular stock also raises some questions. Between 1 April and 1 November, one third of the 7,500 applications were decided. Is that enough to keep you from catching up again? Or do we see the next shipment coming again? Please respond to this point by the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. There is another point where I see room for cooperation and progress. The objectives of the cabinet are better agreements with countries of origin, more return and reducing irregular migration. That reads as a straight-up addition to more legal migration channels. The opening of legal migration routes can help to make better arrangements with countries of origin, to promote return, to reduce irregular migration and to fill vacancies. Not only did we invent this, but many experts also say that, such as the rather mild people of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also officials of the Ministry of Finance. Nevertheless, in a large part of the Chamber, I see something that is most similar to an allergic reaction when it comes to the issue of legal migration. There seems to be reluctance to think seriously about this, while we all want to control migration. In my opinion, we should not put our heads in the sand, but should try to learn from other countries, such as Germany, Canada and France, which are ahead of us, in cooperation with Egypt and Tunisia, among others. How does the Secretary of State view this? And when will it finally come up with a written reply, and I hope that it will respond to our proposal from earlier this year? Finally, Mr President. Mrs Becker also mentioned it: we have recently seen that there have been many incidents in azc's, or at least appear to have been. People get attacked there and sometimes even really attacked because of their orientation. The low point was that someone was overflowing with boiling water. It is, of course, extremely sad when people come here to seek protection and are then attacked here. I must say that I find it sad that the people who do so often seek protection. I think we agree on that widely in this Chamber. What solution does the Secretary of State see for resolving this problem in the short term? How can we increase social security in the azc's? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u128	I have another question about naturalization. A few weeks ago, we had a budget discussion on integration with the Minister for Social Affairs. He then referred us to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Justice. That's why I'm gonna end up with you now. Your fellow party member, Mr Paternotte, found it an appropriate point that thousands of settled migrants, status holders, or new Dutch people, are not going to pass the naturalisation test. It's been raised to level B1. In itself, it is fine to be ambitious in the language level, but it is clear that thousands of people are not going to pass the test. When we get in, we'll have customization. We'll have other types of tests. But we don't have that in naturalization. Do you agree that we should also apply customization here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u129	I'm not the spokesperson, so I'm not very good at this. I would say: strive for a good level of ambition, but make sure that it is for people to do. But this is Mr Paternotte's area. I'm willing to contact him again, so I can give a better answer in the second term, otherwise I might be standing here selling nonsense. I would not do that to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u130	I look at Mr Moorlag and then at Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mr Grothuizen is right to point the finger at the sore spot where the 15,000 cases at the IND are concerned. There are 7,000 cases left. The budget assumes that the task force will be ready by the end of this year. There's 100 million less going to the IND. Does Mr Groothuizen believe that the capacity of the task force should be maintained, and that additional resources should be allocated if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u132	I can't put that $100 million down. We once made a plea, together with Mrs Van Toorenburg, about the children's pardon to do two things: extra money for the IND and another funding system. I've been thinking about what this means the other day. I think we were at about 300 million and we are now structurally on a basis of about 375 million. I see a very small fall in the budget of a few million from next year. Maybe the Secretary of State could explain this a little better. So I can't place the $100 million. The system was also extended then, to prevent you from having continuous fluctuations. That's where the mechanism is in........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Some sort of buffer, as it were. That is what I would like to think: at least we have taken a number of steps. I do not know whether it is enough and whether we should still fine tune, but I think that this is the harmonica effect that at least was in it. So I honestly don't know if money is the biggest problem right now. In my opinion, the biggest problem that was cut back on the IND in 2016. You'll find out at some point. And then you're gonna go after the facts all the time. Then you have to find money, hire people, train people. That also costs capacity at the IND and then you are a year and a half further. I think we're still struggling with the aftermath of that particular choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u133	Does Mr Groothuizen at least share my view? We are getting signals that there is also simply good human strength........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ My question is how Mr Groothuizen looks at this. How are we going to ensure continuity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u134	That's a super-righteous question. So you don't do that by having a harmonica system like that. I hope that's been taken out a little bit. But in other ways too, you must retain that know-how. That is also one of the reasons for me to always speak with some hesitation about the problems at the IND, because it does not seem to me to be supermotivating to the people who work there when they are constantly getting over all this misery. On the other hand, problems can hardly be left unspoken. So I think it's about stable funding and the organization in order. In my opinion, part of the problem at the IND is also just mediocre management, poor steering information and not having the working methods in order. They are partly political choices, but partly also organisation and management.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u135	Does Mr Groothuizen agree with me that it is very important in the Netherlands for a well-functioning asylum policy and its support for it that asylum seekers who have been put to trial and have been told that they have to leave actually do so? And does he know what, according to research, is ultimately the most effective method from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u136	The answer to the first question is yes, the answer to the second question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u137	That's the way it is, Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u138	I asked Mr Grothuizen if he knew what was the most effective method. It is remarkable that the answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u139	I don't know what investigation you're referring to. I do not think there are any easy solutions to the problem of migration, so if you are now wiping one out of the hat, I will take a good look at it. But I thought, "I'm trying to keep it short."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u140	Sorry, I'm gonna sprinkle sand in your wheels again, I'll make it quick. I'm not asking this for nothing, of course. Research shows that it is important to put someone who may be out of control, who may not be willing to cooperate at all, who may already be on the evening before he is told that he has to leave with an unknown destination, gets into illegality and perhaps do criminal things, sooner. The Netherlands is also fighting in Europe to get directives adapted for this purpose and to be able to secure more quickly nuisances. What do I read in D66's election programme? D66 wants to reduce the speed with which asylum seekers who have been put into detention can be put into detention. In fact, they say: we really want the asylum seeker to have to give some sort of guarantee, so that people are detained less often than they are now. I honestly do not understand that very well, so perhaps Mr Groothuizen can explain that. Doesn't he think that it will undermine the support for asylum seekers who really have the right to receive asylum much more? People will only see: they're not leaving, they're staying here and we can't even lock them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u141	Here's what I get. If you want to turn people off, assuming you get the country they need to be deported to realize that, it helps if those people are between four walls and behind a closed door. You don't have to look for those people. The question of whether you want to, of course, is also partly a moral choice. I mean, why would you lock up people who haven't done anything in themselves except that they're looking for a better life? I think that's the first question. That is why we are a lot more reluctant than you are to lock up. I'm gonna stay that way. I really think that's a moral line, too. I understand very well that we have to deal with it criminally when people commit staffed facts. We have the detention of aliens in case there are very clear signs that people who are being evicted in the short term want to get out of the country. I understand that, too. I also think that we should always look at alternatives. But to keep the space very wide so that as many people as possible can be turned off by securing them in advance for a long period... Indeed, I do not feel anything about that, because it is not only about practical matters but also about moral choices about what you do with people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr Grothuizen now pretends to be a moral issue, but does he agree with me that these people simply have a legal obligation to leave and that they do not comply with it? He says he understands so well that these people want a better life. I understand that too, but we can't do it to society that then we won't maintain if people don't want to leave? Again, you can find anything moral. But they have a legal duty to leave, don't they? If they're threatening not to, then we should be able to put them in detention. Could Mr Groothuizen perhaps make it clear at what point in time we are putting people in detention who he says in his election programme want to do so even less often?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u143	In my opinion, securing people is a moral choice. Also on other points where we say that there is an undesirable behaviour, you choose what repertoire of sanctions and measures you may use. We had a discussion about the Corona Act not too long ago. We would like people to observe a safe distance. Then there is the question of how high the fine is that you put on it. Do you think that detention is an appropriate sanction? Here's a similar discussion. Of course, I also think that people who are not allowed to stay here should leave. I also think that you should have a certain set of instruments for that. That's part of foreign detention. In order to use it very widely and to secure everyone as much as possible in the hope of getting them out of the country, I think it is a step further. I am not prepared to move towards Mrs Becker there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u144	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts, also on behalf of D66. I understand the left-wing opposition doesn't have to say anything anymore. Mrs. Van Beuker-Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The past cabinet period was marked by a number of fundamental changes in the security landscape. The rise of organized crime, which of course has been going on for a long time, became painfully apparent with the low point of the murder of lawyer Derk Wiersum. A lot of crime moved to the Internet. That was accelerated by the corona crisis. The fight against crime is also changing, with data collection and artificial intelligence playing an increasingly important role. Meanwhile, we see that the classic work of the district agent is under pressure. In my contribution, I would first like to address the role of tech, data and privacy in our government policy. Then I'm gonna go into street safety and security online. Finally, I will look at the wider question of how the police function in the Netherlands is performed and how it relates to the function of the boa. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Chamber voted on a motion asking the government to counter the use of ethnicity and nationality as a risk factor in algorithms by the police. To my great surprise, this motion was rejected by a small majority; a motion that simply asks the government to guarantee Article 1 of our Constitution. Perhaps it was thought that, of course, the government must guarantee our fundamental rights. But we see over and over again, whether it's with the Defense Department or the Tax Department or the police, that the public services that have to enforce the law themselves break the law. I therefore ask the cabinet once again whether it can ensure that ethnicity and nationality are not used in risk profiles. The project in Roermond, which was the subject of the motion, is only one example in which algorithms are used to predict crime. The so-called Crimes Anticipating System has rolled out the police nationwide. However, little is known about its effectiveness. Indicators to measure that are missing. Does the Minister share the view that a nationwide system with potentially a huge impact on citizens' rights and the work of the police should have some proven effectiveness, and that this effectiveness cannot be determined if no objectives or indicators are set? If so, is the Minister prepared to discuss with the police objectives and indicators for monitoring the effectiveness of the system? The recent study by Bits of Freedom raises the question of why the outdated ICT infrastructure has not been improved before investing in this kind of new systems. Fortunately, the awareness that data collection and the use of algorithms can harm our fundamental rights seems to be emerging. On Friday we received a letter, co-signed by Minister Dekker, announcing a human rights test. Can the Minister explain the latest state of affairs? Will this test become an obligation, prior to rolling out new projects that are driven by artificial intelligence? This is not just about protection against discrimination. The right to the protection of personal data is also a fundamental right. Not that long ago, we were storing documents in an archive. Started to fill up the archive, then it was time to clean up properly. With the digital world, there is hardly any brake on storing and storing, and so we collect more and more data with means such as smart cameras, flash devices and drones. But as the databerg becomes more gigantic, the budget of the Dutch Data Protection Authority is not growing. Thousands of complaints and thousands of data leaks weren't picked up. Fortunately, last week it was announced that EUR 7 million will still be released for the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Moreover, this only preserves the current capacity. For the longer term, this does not yet offer a solution. How is the Cabinet going to ensure that the Personal Data Authority can continue to carry out the ever-increasing task in the future? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to safety. Especially at this time I try to keep a daily walk in. Now that the weather is getting dark and it is very quiet on the street due to corona, I find that I find it less pleasant to walk alone. Makes me think. Women too often feel unsafe on the streets. 40% of women have felt unsafe in 2019. For young women, that was even 54%, the double of young men. That was before the streets became quieter as a result of the corona measures. The sharp decline in street crime over the last ten years is not reflected in people's perception of security. With the Security Monitor, the Ministry makes this clear, but the figures raise the question of what is being done with these insights. That is why I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to bring to the attention of the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the Safety Council the findings of the Safety Monitor, in particular that young women still feel unsafe on the streets too often. Where corona causes silence on the street, activity increases online, online shopping, online meetings, but unfortunately also online harassment. Online women are also the victims of this, especially young women. Plan International published an international survey last month which showed that 58% of girls and young women were victims of online harassment. Almost half of the cases involved threats of physical or sexual violence. For the Netherlands, the figures are comparable. A fact that we cannot ignore on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. I would like to hear from Minister Dekker what the situation is with regard to the accessible provision for victims of Internet crime that the Chamber requested earlier this year in connection with the citizens' initiative on Internet bullies addressed. The Minister would also engage with providers and platforms to address their responsibilities and point out the law. What's come out of that? Mr. Chairman. In my final piece, I would like to mention the district agent, which is the key element in security policy, which is becoming less and less dependent on work in the neighbourhood due to overload with other tasks. Meanwhile, we see that the boas have to fill the gaps in the police domain more and more often. It raises the question of who should perform what role in the modern security landscape. My predecessor tabled a motion two years ago asking for an answer to that question together with the Scientific Council for Government Policy. This year the Minister finally talked to the WRR about this and last summer we were shown the research design. I was surprised to see that the boa has been left out of the problem. Can the Minister explain why the role of the boa is not being looked at, whereas the Den Boer motion explicitly asked for it? Isn't the recent pilot which equips boas with batons a development to take on board? I would like to focus briefly on diversity and inclusion in the police force. I have good hope that the new police program will help everyone feel safe in the organization. In this context, D66, together with GroenLinks and the Labour Party, tabled a motion on pink and blue during the briefing. We'd like to hear the Minister's latest state of affairs. In addition to safe teams, the program focuses on competent teams. This adds more customisation to the diversity policy. Good. However, it is not quite clear what this means in concrete terms. On the one hand, there is talk of selection based on diversity and competences in a team, on the other hand, the existing targets are maintained. I would like some clarification from the Minister on this. On the basis of which will the police pursue diversity policy and what targets will be used? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a positive note. D66 welcomes the pilot with discrimination investigators and the effective monitoring of the approach to ethnic profiling. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Beuker. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA. How many minutes would you like to use for your first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u147	Let's see. I think I have a total of 15 minutes, so I'd like to use 12 now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u148	All right, let's do it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u149	Mr. Chairman. When I heard a number of colleagues here arguing for a tough approach to problem young people, I realized how special it is that I am actually speaking in this debate on the Justice budget. When I was young, and that's really a long time ago I'll tell you, I was like they say in Groningen "not the best." Every weekend with a piece in the collar tearing around on a staged moped, a weekend wouldn't have been successful if there hadn't been a big fight and I've also been sinister about tearing down road furniture. Mr. Chairman. My career on the wrong path has come to an early conclusion. That was not the case, as I say to Mr Markuszower, because I was caught in the collar and locked up in Veenhuizen with a minimum sentence. No, that's because I've been lucky enough to be hired as a student nurse in a psychogeriatric nursing home. That's where I'm socialized. Mr. Chairman. I got that chance. But odds aren't fairly divided. And security isn't fairly divided either. There are too many neighborhoods where problems accumulate. School drop-out, unemployment, minor crime, serious undermining crime are piling up there. Last year, my colleague Attje Kuik tabled a motion during the budget debate in which the government was asked, inspired by the Rotterdam Zuid National Programme, to draw up a better neighbourhood-oriented approach with the aim of significantly reducing the problems of undermining. Elements in this are a mix of prevention and repression: better guidance for young people, better education, reduction of early school leaving, youth aid that is in order and increasing the chances of catching up. That motion was adopted with broad support. The Minister for Justice and Security responded favourably to that motion. He considered that the motion had been carried out by referring to investments in the preventive local approach. Together with the municipalities and the Strategic Board, he says to be working on undermining with the further development of the area-oriented approach. The Minister lists this in his letter of 13 November. Steps have been taken. There's no misunderstanding about that. But is it enough? No, it's not enough. In addition to the previous funds, the offensive against undermining crime now occasionally attracted 15 million in 2021 and 10 million in 2022 for the local and regional approach. This is occasional money, while the problem is structural. In the manifesto A Pact for the Rule of Law the Strategic Board Undermining pointed out that annual structural needs are 400 million: 200 million for strengthening the criminal justice chain, 100 million for the territorial social approach together with justice, and 100 million for strengthening the local and regional administrative approach. In June, fifteen mayors in the manifesto called for more capacity and, above all, more speed for the most vulnerable areas. They rightly pointed out that, because of the corona crisis, investment is needed quickly, especially in the vulnerable neighbourhoods where crime is spreading like a virus. The situation is potentially explosive. Think of the excrement of riots in Kanaleneiland, the Schilderswijk or Duindorp. Mr. Chairman. The Association of Dutch Municipalities is also concerned. The fifteen mayors, together with their urban partners, want to step up cooperation with the Empire. One of the challenges they outline is to tackle undermining and improving the quality of life. Young people who were on the right track are at risk of slipping back into crime. The crime industry doesn't stick to the lockdown. More capacity is needed, both in prevention and repressive. These include a range of measures: combating educational disadvantages, rapid access to work, debt relief and tackling domestic violence. In short, investments in quality of life and safety. I appeal to the Minister of Justice and Security to ensure, in his own area, first and foremost, more capacity in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and more district agents. Take also the call of the police unions to heart. Neighborhood cops can get behind the front door. They know the young people who have problems and cause problems. By the way, it was police officer Dobma in my town. I had to load my bike in his van myself when he confiscated it. Those district cops know the kids and the parents. They're in contact with confidants and paramedics in the neighborhood. Also, getting more declaration points, speaking hours and police stations in the neighborhoods is my call. Make sure the police get back into the capillaries of our neighborhoods. Also make sure that assistance for confused persons improves. Too often the police get put problems on its plate that fall outside its domain and tasks. Those aren't primary police duties. It is therefore necessary to improve the guidance and treatment of confused people. There must be sufficient places for respite and crisis management, and easy access to the ggz, so that the police can quickly transfer care and confused people no longer end up in jail or in the street unnecessarily. My question to the rulers is whether they agree with this. Do they take the call of the 15 mayors to heart? Are they prepared to use structural additional resources, in addition to the occasional resources, to improve police care in the neighbourhoods where problems accumulate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u150	I see Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Helder for one question. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u151	I have a question for Mr Moorlag. Or should I say, if I listen to that introduction, Wild West William? A fair wish list is listed by the Labour Party: more district agents and everything. I fully agree with that, but let us be very honest. When I speak to police officers... I blame the VVD for a great deal of policy, and that is often justified, but when you talk to police officers or police unions, they often say that the problem is no longer the money, but the balding that has taken place under Rutte II. Even if you put extra money into it now, my party would very much like that too, I think Mr Moorlag and a very large part of the Chamber will soon say in the election programmes that that will be necessary. They all left under the bald blow that took place under Rutte II. How does Mr Moorlag look back on that? And how does Mr Moorlag think this can be resolved in the short term, with the wish list he just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u152	From the point of view of full justice, it is not that the SP always blames the VVD. The PvdA also gets its portion regularly from the SP. I'd like to have noticed that for a moment. It is true that the PvdA has taken on government responsibility in a difficult period, which was also financially difficult. But the suggestion in the question, namely that agents were fired during that period, is misplaced to my liking. The PvdA stands, and also stood during that cabinet, just for strengthening the neighborhoods and neighborhoods. This has been a theme for the PvdA for decades and that remains a theme for the PvdA as long as the problems in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods have not been adequately solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u153	Mrs. Helder, your last question. You keep it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u154	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u155	No. Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u156	I will be brief and give concrete expression to the question. Then why are more than 200 police stations closed under Rutte II? They're not all gone, so we should be able to reopen a few or "humans," as I'm supposed to call them these days. How does Mr Moorlag feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u157	I'm in favour of that. That is what I mentioned in my plea, but I question whether all these should be large physical agencies. But I do think that there should be support points in the neighbourhood, so that the district agent is visible and people can go there. I've seen it myself in my rural community. That's where the police station was moved into the town hall, but most of the time it was unhumanized. I don't think a town hall is an ideal place either. I think the police should be in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u158	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u159	Mr. Chairman. Justice in the neighborhood, not only police, but also justice. In our election programme, and we did so earlier in the Chamber, we are in favour of the renewal of justice. These are examples such as the district judge, the successful court judge in the North of the Netherlands or the debtor. I would also like to mention the introduction of peace judges in accordance with the example of Belgium and French. These are judges who are literally and figuratively closer to the people and who judge quickly and efficiently. There are already experiments like this. They have been successfully and positively evaluated. These projects should lead to a judicial implementation of a proximity judge. The PvdA welcomes this, but I do have concerns about the steps to be taken towards the structural introduction and embedding of justice. The Temporary Experimentation Act will not enter into force until all general administrative measures necessary for this are completed. How's the secretary gonna speed things up? And isn't funding the experiments too tight to be able to take real steps in practice? Mr. Chairman. I come to the issue of asylum policy. The asylum policy, in Groningen's words, is actually a mess. It is harsh when it comes to humanity, and it is incompetent when it comes to action. The long waiting times at the IND taskforce have not been resolved. Vulnerable people are languishing in the mud of Moria and there is still a long way to go. First of all, the inhuman conditions in Moria on Lesbos. In the meantime, there is already the sixth winter at the door. Where other countries, such as Germany, had children from this misery, the Netherlands does virtually nothing. Where the German Chancellor had the courage to say 'Wir purchase tie' is the attitude of our government: we have nothing to buy with it. But we're talking about kids here! Why does the setup remain so harsh? And why does the Secretary of State not take seriously the signal from the 175 municipalities, to which Mr Van Ojik also referred? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the waiting times for the IND. The Secretary of State promised that by the end of the year the waiting list for 15,000 asylum applications would be gone. In September, the Secretary of State indicated that the task force's start-up problems were over. She confirmed that again at the beginning of November. Now, a few weeks later, it suddenly appears that more than 7,000 applications will remain on the shelf. How is that possible? In the event of interruption, I said that the budget shows that the task force would have dealt with all cases before 2021. There's also less money going to the IND. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reverse this? Is it prepared to ensure that the task force's capacity is not reversed until these applications have been completed? What the PvdA is also concerned about is the family reunification of status holders. The Secretary of State writes in a letter that she wants to avoid a peak of their arrival in the first half of 2021. Can the Secretary of State clarify this? What does the Secretary of State mean? Is there a deliberate commitment to slowing down family reunification because the Secretary of State does not have her affairs in order? I'm closing up. I actually spoke too quickly, so I have some speaking time left. I would like to devote it to the NVWA, which I am also discussing tonight in the LNV budget. It has been found that the NVWA is unable to adequately manage and manage 100 of the 150 tasks in its supervisory and enforcement domain. If things aren't settled upriver at NVWA, it's going downriver at the State's Attorney's Office. I have asked questions in the past because there have also been signals from the Public Prosecutor's Office that due to a lack of supervision and enforcement pressure people simply go free. The financial incentives in the agricultural system to violate manure legislation, for example, are so strong and criminals are free to do so. I look at the crimefighters of the VVD for example. Shouldn't we be upriver at NVWA improving things? These problems are persistent and I know that these rulers are not responsible for them, but they do have an interest in them. My question to the rulers is: do they want to work and work hard to solve the problems in the supervisory and enforcement domain, because it is a vital part of the judicial chain? I hope they will be generous in meeting me in this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you. That's what you get for putting an Agricultural Spokesman on the Justice Department: then there's a line made somewhere to talk about the NVWA. I think that's pretty good, Mr. Moorlag. Tonight, the Agriculture budget continues. Mr. Wassenberg agrees, right? Yeah, that's what I thought. Mrs Van der Graaf has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u161	Thank you, Madam President. The Christian Union believes that it is the vocation of the government to do people justice. Every Dutchman must be treated fairly, and wherever that does not happen, he or she must also be able to achieve his or her right. Then the rule of law must stand before you. Fortunately, this is often the case, as witnessed by the top five rankings of the Netherlands in the international rule-of-law index. Mr. Chairman. Protecting the rule of law and doing justice to everyone constantly calls for attention. That is what we are talking about today, because we are discussing the plans of the rulers for the coming year, as laid down in the budget of Justice and Security. Important steps have been taken in terms of investment in the police, prosecutors, justice and legal aid, but we are not yet there. Because we see the challenges, we see the deficits, we see the backwardness, we see the crampedness in these organisations, but it takes time to maintain our rule of law properly. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention today to a number of people the Christian Union thinks we should focus on in the coming year. First of all, these are the people in prostitution. We started this parliamentary year with a fundamental debate on prostitution. For the Christian Union, it is clear that 20 years after the abolition of the ban on brotheling, we must take a different path. Fortunately, the core and profit of that debate, which was widely recognised, was that the abolition of the brothel ban did not bring what was expected 20 years ago. The Secretary of State announced that she would come forward with an investigation into the model used in Sweden, among others. I would ask the Secretary of State when we can look into this idea so that we can talk about whether the right things are being investigated. We are grievingly waiting for the law regulation sex work. We're running out of patience. When can we consider this as a room? Mr. Chairman. One of the major challenges lies in the fight against trafficking in human beings. It is not for nothing that it is also a priority in the Safety Agenda of this period. However, we see that the achievement of the objectives is lagging behind time and time again. The objective of 240 OM suspects, cases that can be brought before the courts, is simply not met. Over the past year, it's been 100 less. I'm asking the cabinet, why can't we do it? I have also tabled a motion with Mr Kuiken of the PvdA to stick to those objectives and to invest heavily in them. So I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. How do you think it's gonna bring these people to justice next year? Mr. Chairman. Trafficking in human beings is a violation of human dignity and integrity and of personal freedom. It is a gross violation of human rights. It is not for nothing that we have a very serious punishment: twelve years. Article 273f of the Criminal Code is the longest provision known in that Code. But the application of that provision is often complex and is perceived as complicated by the people in practice. Trafficking detectives tell me that they regularly deviate to a lighter offense, because it is difficult to get the burden of proof for trafficking in human beings around. District Attorneys wrestle to draw up a sharp charge, and judges tell me sometimes to go with crooked toes to acquit. In the meantime, the case law on this issue has formed. The Supreme Court has made quite a mark on that. On a number of parts of this article, what the legislator had written in it was apparently insufficient and added the element of exploitation, which is much more difficult to prove. Let me give you an example. Transferring someone with, for example, a taxi from one country to another with the aim of bringing them into prostitution would have been punishable as legislators. But the case law has now added the element of exploitation in order to be able to condemn a person for trafficking in human beings. It is also criminalised by the legislator to force someone to give up the proceeds from prostitution. But where the compulsion to give up your money has been punishable, exploitation must now always be proven, which is much more difficult to achieve. In fact, the Supreme Court goes far beyond what the legislator intended at the time. The Advocate General who wrote about the cases of the Supreme Court of a Romanian prostitute also points out this. I ask the cabinet not only to look at this, I have seen that the Secretary of State wants to do so, but also to actually work with this article in order to make trafficking in human beings more effective in criminalising. Mr. Chairman. The legislation surrounding the webcrawler is urgently needed. It needs a firmer legal basis to better detect online child abuse. It is now being included in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I ask the cabinet: can we not bring this item forward and deal with it earlier? Mr. Chairman. I've been calling for help from Stop it Now at various times over the past year. This assistance is important to prevent the victims of child abuse. There is a Chamber statement, supported by the entire House of Representatives, to see how the accessibility of this telephone line can be improved. They missed two out of three phone calls. I haven't seen anything concrete on this yet. I ask the Minister when he will come forward with a proposal for improvement. Mr President, then drugs. Last week I spoke to a number of people who recovered or recovered from a major drug addiction. Tough guys I talked to, who at a vulnerable moment in their lives got hooked on those drugs. It often started with soft drugs. After all, that was easy to obtain. But it didn't stop there. And even today, drugs can be obtained with a few mouse clicks. With a single mouse click you can buy kitten, 3-MMC, such a designer drug. Mrs. Kuik also mentioned it. When will the legislation that is going to make it possible to curb this more quickly? What about this legislation on nitrous oxide and the new psychoactive substances? It's a collaboration between VWS and JenV. Can we look forward to this legislation this year? Mr. Chairman. I wonder what exactly is the social cost of drugs, drug trafficking, drug use and all its consequences. We see that a lot of people are being wound up, that there are large money laundering and detective investigations, that drug labs are being rolled up and cleaned up and that there are costs for the environment. I ask the cabinet to look at these social costs and to look at them, but also at the costs of caring for people with drug addiction. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, then the Minister for Legal Protection. We've talked a lot in recent years about gambling. The Minister for Legal Protection knows that I am extremely concerned about this, especially since next year the online gambling websites can be legalized, which will lead to many more gamblers and gambling addicts. But we don't really have a good picture of how many people are actually gambling addicted. The addiction organizations cannot introduce gambling addicts as a separate category, so we do not have a clear picture of the figures. They fall into a residual category and that's why we don't have a clear view of it. I ask the Minister for Legal Protection, who is still responsible for the addiction policy on gambling, to do something about this and to make these gambling and game addicts explicitly visible in the figures of people currently being treated. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union welcomes the extra corona support given by the Cabinet to the social lawyers, but we ask the Cabinet to use the money left over this year for legal aid next year as well. I also ask the Minister for Legal Protection what is going on with mediation. The Christian Union is convinced that it can be positive for all parties if we focus on reconciliation and conflict management at the beginning of a legal conflict. The Innovation Criminal Procedure Act, which takes a step in this direction, has just returned from the Council of State, but it took ten months before the proposal went to the Council of State. I hope that we will take the step to the Chamber more quickly, so when can we look forward to this law? I agree with the PvdA's question on neighbourhood judges. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the fact that in this year we remember that we were liberated 75 years ago and know 75 years of freedom in the Netherlands. A very special moment in the last year was the Prime Minister's apology on behalf of the government to the Jewish community for the government's actions during World War II. We think it is important that this year we have also made additional money available to combat anti-Semitism. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice when the National Coordinator for Anti-Semitism will be established and how the organisations can participate in the money made available for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I shall now give the floor... No, not yet to you, Mr Wassenberg, but to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr Voordewind does not have so many minutes. Mrs. Van der Graaf made them all up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed very few minutes for a lot of topics. Well, I guess I'll start soon. The coalition agreement had agreed to set up a decent and effective asylum policy. Rightly so, but I am concerned about that first part: that humanity. I see files coming along that raise big questions. We've seen inimitable assessments in conversion cases and Ibtis. We saw some serious flight stories in the children's pardon business. We've seen abuse of returned Sudanese asylum seekers. The ACVZ has criticised the way the country information is used. Amnesty claims that the IND rejects too rigidly in cases where identity cannot be established. If the judge returns the IND whistle, the IND will always appeal to the Council of State. They are too many examples, and the Bahraini case will get over that one more time. The man is rejected here and then sentenced to life imprisonment. These are all examples where my group is wondering: is it not time to have the IND thoroughly searched? Can an independent external expert committee be set up to monitor the decision-making of the IND? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State, although I fear it will not be very positive. Apart from the doubts about the quality of the decisions, it is still taking a long time. The delays are well known. The task force has started. We're not halfway there yet, and the Secretary of State hopes to get over half by the end of this year. Looks like we're gonna have to do a big part of it next year. I have the same questions as I heard about funding the task force. I think it was meant for this year, but now we're going to get over it. How's the Secretary of State gonna pay for this now? Are the rumors that we're gonna pay 120 million less to the IND? I can't get that all sharp, so I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement there were also very good things, such as flexible care, small-scale care, combating the relocations of children and so on and so on. We don't have any peaks anymore, but we do have a big shortage in the shelters. How come it's still like that? When will we get the implementation of the Treaty of Statelessness to the Chamber? Can the Secretary of State promise that that will really happen next week? Finally, Mr President. The Secretary of State does not want the single asylum children to be accompanied by Nidos until they are 21 years old. There is, however, an approved motion by Mr Van Toorenburg. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to carry out that motion. Then the Greek islands. I read a sentence in which there are three disclaimers, for example "preferably for Christmas" and "as soon as possible." I urge the Secretary of State to do everything in my power to bring these 100 children and their parents to Holland for Christmas. Finally, I agree with Jasper van Dijk's call for customisation of the language test in naturalisation. That's it, Mr. Chairman. And that in three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u164	Nice. Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Then it's your turn, Mr. Wassenberg, on behalf of the Party for Animals. You have five minutes before your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mr. Chairman. I was once again eager for impatience in the wings. That is, of course, because as an agricultural spokesperson, you are taking part in a judicial debate. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw particular attention to my first words, because they are actually at the heart of my speech. "We have to take good care of our animals. They deserve attention and protection. That is why it is important that we act as quickly and effectively as possible if we fail. We have to deal with animal suffering." I don't see a glimpse of recognition from the minister yet, but they're literally his words. On 4 October 2018, 783 days ago, the Ministry of Justice issued a press release on the bill that aims to enable animal abusers to receive a restraining order as independent punishment. Then it became deafeningly silent. The bill would go to the Chamber in the autumn of 2019. That was postponed. That was postponed again. Now it appears that the bill has still not been sent to the Council of State. At least it is not on the website with the legislative proposals under discussion. This really is an insult to the Chamber, which has repeatedly asked for this bill. I have not only done so; Mr Weverling of the VVD has asked several times. The Party for Animals is really sick of it. If the Minister does not send this bill to the Chamber by the end of January, we will table a legislative proposal ourselves. I would like to hear from the Minister why it is taking so long. When's the bill coming? When does it go to the Council of State? Do we get it as a room at the end of January? Mr. Chairman. Then we must tackle the undermining of organised crime. This is rightly a spearhead of the Minister, but organized crime also deals with the trade in dogs and cats, for example, because there is virtually no supervision. This turned out again last month when the Minister of LNV sent a report by Deloitte on the dysfunction of the NVWA to the Chamber. There's the NVWA again. This shows that the NVWA is completely inadequate. Two-thirds of the tasks are simply not carried out. Deloitte also looked at the supervision and enforcement of the dog and cat trade, and the NVWA also dropped big stings there. In the dog trade supervision is very inadequate, Deloitte writes. There is a supervisory intensity of 3% and that should be at least 10%. There is no supervision at all in the cat trade. Where that leads, we saw last Sunday at Undercover in the Netherlands: sick cats, sometimes deliberately bred with genetic abnormalities, cats under fleas, cats with forged papers and no control by NVWA. Moreover, animal trafficking is increasingly an alternative to drug trafficking, due to the low probability of trafficking and the low penalties. There is also hardly any monitoring of this. The Minister of LNV concluded that the problems at NVWA are so great that she wants to investigate whether there are tasks that can be carried out by other organisations. I therefore ask the Minister of Justice if he is prepared to respond to Minister Schouten's distress call. Is he prepared to tackle the rogue trade in dogs, and in animals in general, as a form of organized crime? Is he willing to put the animal police on that and expand it as well? 'Cause it's really necessary. Then there are the abuses surrounding the use of police dogs. Zembla showed up last week with some painful revelations. Police dogs were frequently used in arrests. They're the second worst weapon of violence ever by the police after the firearm. This leads to hundreds of incidents every year where suspects are bitten. Some cases are excesses, such as those of a police officer who throws a dog in the neck of a suspect, then leaves the dog to bite for minutes and literally gives the suspect a number of stairs. This case and a few other cases are now under investigation. That is very good, but too often the police dog turns out to be an uncontrollable means of violence with a high risk of injury to both the suspect and the dog. Dogs do not release on command and bite a suspect instead of once several times, resulting in severe wounds, sometimes even bone fractures. Sometimes the dogs must be partially strangled by the conductor using a rope before they release. The police in Rotterdam are trained to throw a dog in through a car window, with all the consequences. Mr. Chairman. I have a call and a number of questions for the Minister. I want the promise that the police in Rotterdam, and anywhere in the country, will stop throwing dogs through a suspect's car window. I'd like a response. I also urge the Minister to launch a wide-ranging investigation into the effectiveness and desirability of using police dogs as a means of violence. And I would ask the Minister to look again critically at the new instruction for police dogs. According to police scientist Timmer, even a young thief of a roll of licorice can be caught by a police dog. I'd like a response. The minister looks surprised, but it's all on that broadcast of Zembla. Maybe he could take a look at it sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u166	Are you ready, Mr. Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u167	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u168	Then I will go to Mrs Van Toorenburg, because she has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u169	Of course, the things shown in Zembla were shocking. I understand that it is being investigated. I would like to add another aspect. You probably haven't noticed that a fantastic police vlogger, a great person in the police department who tries to tell everyone how the police are doing, has been threatened with death by people who saw these videos. Will we then say to each other here that this is really unacceptable and that we need to take very hard action against it? So not only act against people who make mistakes with dog guidance, but also against people who now react to the police on the basis of these kinds of videos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u170	I totally agree with that. I do believe that these threats are totally unacceptable and that action should be taken against them. It's unrelated to the questions I've asked. That needs to be investigated. I'm asking for answers from the Minister. But these kinds of threats are also unacceptable to the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u171	Then there's one more supplement. I can remember if I must be very mistaken about the fact that the Party for Animals was against electric weapons. We have always said that we would like these power-bulb weapons, because a dog can sometimes cause a lot of injury. Shouldn't the Party for the Animals reconsider its idea of the power surge weapon a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u172	I have asked the Minister when the dog will be deployed and whether or not there can be research into when and when. We are indeed opposed to those power surge weapons, the tasers. I do agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that if you have the firearm as the heaviest means, you should look underneath it. We weren't excited about the taser. The police dog often leads to huge problems, also because police dogs are animals that are full of adrenaline at the time they are deployed. A dog full of adrenaline isn't easy to get rid of a suspect. They're means of violence that can't be controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u173	Then I'll go to Mrs... very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u174	So it is as far as the Party for Animals is concerned, or say cow or the bullet. 'Cause everything in between is lost. I really don't understand what he's saying right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u175	I'm not saying that at all. That's a very strange remark from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u176	No, because you don't want the power gun, and you don't want the dog. So what do we do? Or say "fee," or a gun.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u177	I say very clearly that there must be rules for the dog. There aren't any right now. I say that it should be used very scarcely, and I say that the taser is not an alternative as far as we are concerned. I ask the Minister: what can you do to reduce the use of the police dog, because it is harmful to the dog and to the suspect? I don't think that's a very difficult question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u178	Mrs Van Toorenburg has a good point. Her question wasn't that hard, either. It is right that the dogs should be carefully looked at, that there should be proper evaluation and that rules should be laid down. We already have very clear rules for tasers. But parties such as the Animal Party remain against it. I assume they're still against things like bodycams and preventive search. Then what do you want the police to do? Because then you really get to what Mrs Van Toorenburg says: a bullet or a cow. What should the police do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u179	That's a lot of questions. Preventive search must be very well arranged. That's for the judge to decide. In the end, the judge must be able to rule on that. Then we're not against that. I am indeed asking the Minister to look at the police dog's commitment and what we can possibly use in addition. As far as we are concerned, this taser is not admissible, but it is of course nonsense to say: the firearm or nothing at all. There are other resources you can use. They're not the police's only weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u180	That's why I'm asking. What often happens in debates on security is that all parties first start with praise for the police and then, in their chat, put the police away as people who would discriminate, profile ethnically and not be able to deal with certain weapons that have been given to them. That way, we undermine the trust we have in the police. The Party for Animals says we're not gonna do tasers. We normally ask: what then? What's left between a good conversation and a bullet? What's in between, according to the Party for Animals? Then we can talk about that, too. We can't send our agents empty-handed on criminals. And that's what you come up with when you put aside every instrument we want to give with ifs and buts and say: we don't do this and we don't do that. What are we gonna give these people? They can't stand there empty-handed when they stand for our safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u181	But they're not empty-handed either. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius makes it a complete caricature, as if there is only the police dog or the taser and nothing else. That's bullshit! Of course, there are more ways the police can use and the police can use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u182	Welcome to the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u183	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u184	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u185	Tonight I'm back on my trusted LNV committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u186	A familiar environment. That's agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u187	By the way, it can be hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u188	Yeah, I know. Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. Mr. Wassenberg's gonna try and work it out anyway. Actually, I think that's kind of sweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Sometimes you wonder, what's going on? If you allow attacks in France, violence in Austria and threats in the Netherlands to affect you, that may frighten you. That can cripple people with care, as it were. I say it from the bottom of my heart: yet at those moments you know that there may be comfort, and support. The Bible speaks of this, with the text: though I go through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for the Lord will be with me. This is how the Bible can comfort you. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, directors and all your support, that you may find confidence and peace in this way, despite the dangers, risks, misery and violence we face. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, one of the key tasks of the government is, of course, to ensure security for all. With that, a good government stands or falls. I would like to raise a number of issues, first of all anti-Semitism. It is completely unacceptable that the NIS has had to decide to remove the broadcasting logo from its satellite cars because of threats and intimidation. But is the Minister aware that, for example, the editorial board of the Nieuw Israëlietisch Weekblad as the only editor in the Netherlands has been forced to stay at a secret address for more than five years? The threat level for the Jewish community is still high. Can the Minister ensure that the security of the Jewish community is not scaled down? That seems to be the case now and then. If people from the Jewish community want to report threats, reports of anti-Semitism are not always recorded as such, we have noticed. How is the Minister going to make sure that happens? When will the adopted motion on the IHRA definition be implemented in practice? Mr. Chairman. Another point: DNA extraction. In the detection of suspects, there are many points of improvement, including in the collection of DNA. Instead of reducing the number of convicts who have not yet given up DNA, there has been an increase in the number of convicts who have not yet given up DNA. Thousands of cases have been added. How is that possible? I would like an explanation from the Minister. The Hoekstra Committee concluded in 2015: rather take down cheek slime, namely at the time of insecurity. I'd say, Minister, do as promised. Don't keep looking at this endlessly bureaucratic, tripping over all kinds of bumps, but send a bill to the Chamber soon. One of the colleagues noted earlier this day that the privacy of suspects seems to be better protected than that of victims. The specific question is when we can look forward to that bill. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, there has also been considerable investment in the detection and prosecution of human traffickers. It is noteworthy that the budget states that the targets for 2020 are finally adjusted downwards. A similar profit warning, I'll just say, will be included before 2021. The SGP notes that this is at odds with the agreements made by the Cabinet in its own coalition agreement and which were embraced by the Chamber in the Van der Graaf/Kuiks motion adopted. The detection of trafficking in human beings is a crucial pillar in dealing with trafficking in human beings and is still not in order. Does the Secretary of State intend to implement the Van der Graaf/Kuiks motion adopted with priority and speed? I'd like a dress, yes. The capacity looks like paper in order. But how much of this capacity is actually deployable, and how is this expertise secured? It is equally remarkable to read that the webcrawler is still not operational, while it was announced more than ten years ago in the fight against the possession, distribution and manufacture of images of sexual abuse of children. What's going on here? What's going on here? Then the theme of prostitution. In corona time, compared to previous years, more than twice the number of women has permanently stopped their work in prostitution. That has everything to do with the opportunities offered to them to get out. Women cannot get out if there is no help for the follow-up, for example finding accommodation. The DUUP provides for exit fees, but seems to be too unfocused. Will the Minister undertake to look again closely at the frameworks within which that exit fee is spent? So actual support, financial support and material support for the exiters. The issue of drugs, I think, has been sufficiently raised, although I would like to draw attention to a wonderful example that we have come across of the fight against drug crime. The Weerijs team, a police base unit, has put police files and public data together in an interactive criminal map, and that resulted in very successful removals. I would like to ask the following question: what can the Minister do to strengthen such smart initiatives and prevent them from dying prematurely in beauty? Then there is the issue of the legal protection of children. We would like attention to be paid to the recognition of the legal protection of parents in child protection measures. The SGP shares the Minister's view that the child justice should be able to weigh all facts, opinions and interpretations in the best interests of the child. However, the reality is that, according to many, this space is under pressure in practice because of too little time and too little money, of course, that has everything to do with each other. The tools remain unused and inaccurate data too often continue to lead their own lives. How is the Minister for Legal Protection going to tackle this problem at the root? The point of adoption. In June last year, the Minister for Legal Protection announced that he would support those who were adopted in their search for their biological parents. That is a very valuable commitment. A budget of 1.2 million has also been made available. That's good. We do not want to be a Caterpillar Never enough, but more is needed, we note, for the financing of independent large-scale and energetic field work and DNA root research in the country of origin by the foundations for theadoptists. Is the Minister prepared to genuinely support adepts in their quest, to further support and to implement last year's commitment? Progress in adoption cases is often already time-barred because the limitation period in such cases begins to run at the time the adoption takes place and the person concerned is therefore still a young child. I would therefore like to endorse Mr Van Nispen's motion to take an appropriate measure there, so that adopted children will not be faced with an earlier limitation period. I would like to join in that. Then the police. We would like to express gratitude for the work of the police and boas on behalf of the group. We were able to count on them in this period too. The SGP notes that paedjagers are increasingly involved. We see it as a worrying development when citizens go to court. With us, there is the big question of how these so-called paedophiles manage to detect and confront paedophiles in no time, while the police here, as it were, are watching. Does the Minister share the view that the lack of detection capacity is in any case partly a cause? Then the neighborhood cops. We have often argued that these are essential in our view to guarantee security. They stay in the capillaries of society and can do an incredible amount of preventive work. It frustrates us that it turns out that district agents need to jump in on emergency aid far too often and have less and less time to prevent crime. I know from private circles and from my own experience that this is happening and that they can simply spend far too little time on their work as a district agent, because emergency aid is needed. In order not to go behind the facts, it is necessary to act quickly to reduce the pressure on district agents. An increase in the number of FTEs in the primary police force and a clear demarcation of the field of duty of district agents would be a good start. Is the Minister prepared to look at police volunteers and the National Reserve for the solution of this problem? We get regular signals that there are very motivated people there who are eager to follow a training course from a sense of social responsibility and who want to make a contribution to helping to secure society. Is the Minister prepared to include these categories in the solution? Cops on the streets are at the forefront of ensuring the safety of society, but that sometimes seems to be not getting through enough to the corps leadership. I refer to the VIK studies, which show that much has gone wrong and which have resulted in a truly staggering and oppressive report. The question to the Minister is: does the Minister recognise these signals about the VIK investigations and how will the Minister address and end the abuses identified therein? Mr. Chairman. Almost last I come to asylum and migration. The final report on Rutte III's asylum and migration policy does not look very good. The delays at the IND were not eliminated before the end of the year, as the Secretary of State promised once and again, with the hand on her heart. The shelters are closed. Next year there will be a huge challenge to house status holders. Trafficking and crime caused by asylum seekers increased enormously last year. The long promised migration deals with countries such as Afghanistan have not come. The return of migrants to safe countries remains very problematic. Can the Secretary of State indicate what she's really gonna do in the last few months of her reign? This is therefore a kind of guarantee of results. When can we expect the proposal of a structural penalty payment law? I come to my third question. In June, the Chamber adopted my motion to agree with other Western European countries to map and deport to the country of origin groups travelling around. In the meantime, how far is the Secretary of State? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the EU migration pact. We've been looking forward to that for a long time. However, according to the SGP, the present proposal does not provide sufficient guidance to gain more control over who enters Europe. My specific questions are as follows. What concrete measures contribute to preventing migrants from leaving their countries of origin? In other words, how do we discourage this migration? I realise that this policy area is transcending, but I believe that we need to find a part of the solution there. My next question is whether the government is prepared to make proposals for reception in the region, in order to prevent people from coming to the EU border. The proposal to resettle asylum seekers if they have a 20% chance of asylum seems to me rather weak. That bar needs to be much higher. Does the Secretary of State agree that for a truly effective return policy, migrants should in principle always be placed under private supervision prior to their expulsion? Is it prepared to stand up for this in Europe? Mr. Chairman. I had another comment about Greece. In September, we called for Operation Achilles, a civilian-military emergency operation. EU measures have come alongside them. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she recognizes that such a civil-military operation for the benefit of refugees, which have been in desperate situations for months, has only become more urgent? Does she also recognise that we should not just be heading for Europe, but that we should also be able to take bilateral action, possibly together with other countries, if necessary, in bilateral consultations? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just got a sad message. Diego Armando Maradona died: Fluffy, youth hero. He's 60 years old. Mr. Chairman. These are special times. What's still like this today could be different tomorrow. We have, now that the cabinet is coming to an end, a housing crisis, we have a migration crisis, so I heard, and we also have a corona crisis. If the latter makes one thing clear, it is that we depend on each other but also on the government for our safety and our well-being. We are also more than the sum total of the individuals. In addition to the health crisis and the economic crisis, we see that COOVID-19 is also a violent crisis. And not all Dutch people are self-reliant, no matter how much we would like to see it. We're seeing an increase in domestic violence. The stress and tension within families are increasing, and the Child Phone has had 50% more conversations over the past few months about domestic violence, from 1,000 a day to 1,500. The number of victims of child abuse and sexual violence has doubled. UNICEF Netherlands is also ringing the bell. The consequences of the measures taken are considerable for children, young people and other vulnerable people, not only here but also in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. In the midst of all this uncertainty, citizens must now be able to count on well-functioning institutions of the rule of law. I'm asking if the Cabinet is aware of that. What is the Minister going to do to protect these most vulnerable groups as well as possible, especially in these difficult times? Does the Minister also see additional support and resources for funding or supporting bodies that help here? Mr. Chairman. I'm worried about access to justice. I've been doing that for a couple of years. Access to justice is a fundamental right for people in our rule of law. It is also the basis of our rule of law. We must not allow this to be broken down by right-wing symbolism. The predecessor of this minister, the VVD Secretary of State Fred Teeven, was honest. He said, "Look, if you just don't give a lawyer that much time, it's not gonna be that much with his defense. Lady Justitia is blind, and that is a good thing, because if she saw how the Rutte government is dealing with the rule of law, she would be ashamed of herself. We are seeing a number of problematic developments. Sander Dekker's demolition bullet is still raging through the social legal system. The social attorneys are underpaid and there's a huge drain. The only person who doesn't see that is the minister himself. We also see that more and more fines and penalties are being handed out outside the courts, the so-called criminal order for cases up to six years in prison. We also see that the costs of litigation have been so increased that citizens will refrain from exercising their rights. The minister's on the wrong track. He thinks he can achieve cost benefits through efficiency. That's what the cabinet thought when it came to youth care, but we're now seeing how the real costs come back as a boomerang. But then this minister would have flown a long time ago. Mr. Chairman. I come to asylum and immigration. The elections are approaching, so political parties are also looking for scapegoats to blame for everything that goes wrong. With grand, unfulfilled plans, they try to distract attention from one's own failure. The facts are painful: 79.5 million citizens fleeing war, violence, hunger or political persecution, a doubling compared to ten years ago. The causes are often proxy wars, disasters and climate change. Overcrowded refugee camps and a poignant lack of hygiene and medical care can be seen at the edges of Europe. Significant of how we deal with refugees is what happened in camp Moria. The cabinet refused to include any of these single, vulnerable children from Moria. Even when the camp filled up to the ridge burned down, we got a cynical and inhumane game. A deal was made under the leadership of the heartless VVD. The result: The Netherlands doesn't take anyone any more. What are the CDA, the VVD, D66 and the Christian Union stingy with supporting and helping children. They let them die: children who eat moldy bread in those overcrowded camps, sometimes sleep outside in the freezing cold, and face daily violence. Mr. Chairman. The highlight for me was this: the VVD was so proud of that harsh deal that they wanted a compliment from Wilders, and we know his views on refugees and asylum seekers. We also see an increasing decline in the acceptance of refugees. Even migrants, people of migrant origin, who have been here for generations, are being called increasingly negative. I'm really worried about that. We also see that more and more politicians are flirting with radical ideas. The cabinet warned about that before. But we now also see in the First and Tweede Kamer nazitermen used as "overcrowding" by the PVV. They contribute to the normalization of radicalisation and inspire terrorists. They are terms from the Nazi era, as our Prime Minister indicated in the First Chamber, where they preached for the preservation of the pure race. Mr. Chairman. The AIVD and the NCTV warn against the rise of extreme right-wing groups. DENK is concerned about these developments. A few years ago, we saw a survey of the PVV along the fascist measuring bar. Please note: this is not something I say, this is just an investigation at a Dutch university. That research was rewarded with an A-plus. There are striking similarities between the ideas of the PVV and fascism. The feeling of an overwhelming crisis Read: the threatening domination by Islam The fear that the Dutch identity is weakened by the influence of Islam, the threat of the expulsion of Muslims and the leadership of Wilders that is above any contradiction: it is dangerous rhetoric that does not miss its effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u192	I also see Mrs Becker, but first Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u193	It is not an interruption per se, but a personal fact, also on behalf of my colleagues. Look, whoever demonizes here now is Mr. Azarkan. If Mr. Azarkan believes that a democratically elected party here in the Lower House, the PVV, myself, Mrs. Helder, Mr. Van Dijk sitting here, are similar to fascists... What is one doing with fascists, the most reprehensible in our history that we know? That's demonization. It's dangerous what you do. You need to distance yourself from that. At least we're throwing it far from us. We are not going to let ourselves be told what kind of research I really wanted to use another word on the basis of which it is based.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u194	I have had a few debates here with Mr Wilders. He really prides himself on coming up with studies that, for example, show that Muslims are all extremists. That can be said day in, day out. I'm not saying these are my words. This is just an investigation at a renowned university. The PVV is the party of the nomination. I'm naming this because it's been investigated. I would add that it is not necessarily my view, but I can see that it is. I also see a rise in right-wing extremistism. I think we should take action against extremism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u195	I also believe that we should take action against all extremism. That is why we tabled a motion a few weeks ago to see if there could be a legal basis for banning an organization that is ultranationalistic and far-right, the Grey Wolves, in the Netherlands. DENK was the only party to vote against it. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u196	Because we live in a rule of law. It is not for DENK to ban organizations. It is not up to political parties to ban organisations. If organizations go over the line, we have enough room to go to court right now. It can be criminal. If that leads to prohibition, that is what the judge decides, not what political parties do here. I have seen that motions have also been tabled here in this Chamber to close the Haga Lyceum, for example. Please note: a school protected by Article 23 of our Constitution. I know those motions are filed by the PVV. They are also submitted and often supported by the SGP. It is not up to Members of Parliament to decide when an organisation is banned. It is not up to the MPs to decide whether a school is closed. We really do have other institutions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u197	That's exactly what it is. It is up to politics to decide when an organization goes too far. That is why, for example, Minister Dekker has sent the tightening up of Article 2:20 to the Chamber. That is so that we can speed up the ban on organisations where things go against the rule of law. This also means that you cannot absolutely explain the freedom of association for everyone even if it spreads extremist and radical ideas. There's definitely a limit to that. Or does Mr Azarkan really say here: even if it is radical, even if it is extreme, we have that freedom and I am going to defend it instead of free Dutch society? Does he prefer to defend that Turkish nationalist, extremist idea that is spread through these Grey Wolves, so that they have the freedom to do so, rather than the freedom of all those Dutch people who simply want to grow up in freedom and should not be harassed with that thought because that puts our society at risk? Why doesn't he defend that last one? Why does he defend that first one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u198	When it comes to Turkish organisations, Islamic organisations or Islamic schools, I notice that something very strange is happening in this Chamber: we really forget that we have a Constitution. We forget that we have freedoms here that give rights to organisations. I know Mrs. Bente Becker wants to cut it down. That is what her electoral programme says: constitutional freedoms should actually be less tested internationally. I'm not standing for that. I think we should start the debate together on the basis of the content. The organisation that Mrs Bente Becker is talking about is currently receiving funding from ten cities. Does that mean you're gonna tell those cities they're trespassing? Does that mean that these cities will be brought to justice because they are helping an organization that is apparently forbidden? I think it is wise that we should leave it to the judges, the detectives and other organisations to ensure that organisations that go over the line are assessed in this way. If those things do that go against the law that we're making here with each other, it's fine that they're banned. But until then, it suits us to keep our distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u199	No. Now Mr Azarkan is attacking the principle of our rule of law. Now he is actually saying that we, as legislators, as legislators, as politicians, should not have any instrument to amend that law so that an organisation can be banned. You're actually saying that it's not forbidden and that it should just be judged by a judge. But if the judge says that this should be possible under the current legislation, then we should say that it is not desirable and that we do not want to make it possible anymore. And indeed, I do not want that subsidy from the municipalities to go to this organization. I have also tabled a motion on this: no more subsidies to anti-integrative organisations. It's accepted, too. DENK didn't vote for that either. DENK obviously opts for the freedom of such organisations and will then say to me: Mrs Becker is attacking Turkish organisations or Islamic organisations here. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think it's fine, good even, that people still have feelings about the homeland, that they feel: this is my Turkish culture, this is my Turkish language. But we're talking here about the Grey Wolves, with a radical mindset. Mr Azarkan should stand beside me to fight against it. I'm sorry he doesn't. But, Mr President, I am afraid I will not get another answer, so I would like to use this interruption for my final question to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u200	This was the introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u201	Honorary violence. I am very much fighting against that, because I do not think that should be possible. I've tabled a motion to punish honor-related violence more severely. DENK was the only one who voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u202	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u203	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u204	I'm going to explain that to you. Look, I notice that "honor-related violence" is always used for people with a migrant origin. I've invited a lady this week who's been promoted to this. She's done a lot of research into honor-related violence, which is really terrible. That's what we need to fight. What she is opposed to and what I am opposed to is that we often call it domestic violence in people with non-migrant origins. We call that family dramas. So someone's killing his kids. There is never any honour-related violence, as if people without migrants had no honour, as if it were always the honour of people with migrants. I think that is wrong. I don't think you should punish people more heavily for the same crime. In fact, I've been talking about 2008 to 2010 and running a programme to better inform families so that people can recognize it. I'm on the side of fighting violence if that's honor-related. But I see no distinction between someone who kills his wife and children and someone who does, and says to do so, from his honor. I don't see any distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u205	I am very concerned about the victims because Mr Azarkan apparently gave information on this, because he really did not understand. Maybe he should talk to Janine Janssen, for example, the expert of the National Expertise Centre for Honor-related Violence. She says with cow letters: honor-related violence is something other than domestic violence. What's the big difference? In the case of domestic violence, this happens in the private circle, where, for example, very, very much a husband says: I am going to use violence against my wife. In the case of honor-related violence, the whole family approves it because the honor of the family would have been affected by, for example, the behavior of that woman. The uncles, the fathers, the whole family says: the honor can only be restored if her violence is done. So there's a large group of accomplices. And yes, unfortunately, that happens in patriarchal honor cultures that come here from other countries. Shouldn't we dare name that? Are you going to stand in front of those victims or are you actually protecting the perpetrators who would do so from that culture? We shouldn't want that, should we? So once again, you go into it again and reconsider going into this fight with us instead of trivializing it and pretending it would be the same as domestic violence. It really isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u206	I often see words in my mouth. That's been happening to me a lot lately. Let me be clear: I completely disapprove of the violence. I always do. If that means killing people for that reason, then there's a punishment. But what I don't want is for people with a migrant's arrival to be marked "eating-related violence" very quickly. I'm not just saying that. I spoke to someone who got promoted on this last week. I would like to talk about that, but I have a different view than Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u207	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Chairman. We see that political statements can be the breeding ground for radicalisation and thus encourage individuals to act. I ask the Minister: where are the limits? How can we tackle extremism and keep society safe? I call for a uniform approach to extremism, regardless of the background. That is why I am also pleased that EUR 3 million has been included in the fight against anti-Semitism and that an additional €40,000 has been made available for the protection of Jewish religious institutions. Mr. Chairman. Can we copy the same approach to fighting Muslim hatred? I have also announced an initiative paper for this. Because the figures show that Muslims are disproportionately more often victims of discrimination and violent treatment. The number of recorded incidents of religious discrimination is increasing, most of which relate to discrimination against Islamic religion. In recent years, we have seen huge numbers of destructions of Islamic houses of prayer, up to a terrorist attack. Don't those mosques deserve extra support? Can't they claim protection? Why aren't mosques better protected by the Constitution? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the policemen. Last year, this minister decided to equip 17,000 policemen with a stun gun under the pretext that the violence against the police was increasing. That was the most important argument. But that seems to have been a miscommunicated image for years. The fact that there is an increase in violence is wrong. There is just a drop, says a lecturer at the Police College. This means that the power surge weapon was introduced on the basis of false arguments and incorrect information. I have already objected to the introduction. The risks are too high, there has not been properly tested and the need for a power surge weapon is really too low. Mr. Chairman. I would like to dwell on the technology used by the security services, including the police. I have my doubts about the use of data to track crime early. The police are experimenting in different cities and civilians are being used as human laboratory animals. It is a bad thing to allow citizens to participate uninformedly in a government experiment. We also see that the police use data for predictive policing to develop algorithms. The European Council even indicates that this leads to discrimination and contributes to ethnic profiling. How can such projects, such as project Sensing in Roermond, be approved? Can the Minister inform the Chamber of the use of artificial intelligence in the police? And what is the legal framework for the use of algorithms for detection? Finally, I would like to know which institutions supervise this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u209	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-8.u210	Tomorrow we will continue with the government's term.
