ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	We have a full house in box K. A warm welcome to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Justice and Security. The cabinet could not agree on how to pronounce the name of the Chinese company and has therefore sent only four directors. The next item is the debate on possible espionage by Huawei in the Netherlands and the auction of 5G frequencies. We have nine participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Weverling of the VVD Group. I'd be happy to give him the floor. He has four minutes of speaking time, like everyone else. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An important moment, with not for nothing also a good delegation from the cabinet. We're on the verge of auctioning the 5G frequencies. That's a lot of opportunities. Opportunities for our economy, opportunities for health care and also opportunities for entrepreneurs. The Netherlands is in the top four of the most digital and innovative countries in the world. We have a good digital infrastructure. So our digital economy is making a lot of money, but it is also vulnerable. This vulnerability can be abused by countries that use digitisation as a weapon. A safe and fast 5G network is therefore of the utmost importance. That target is in sight, but we're not there yet. The concerns about the vulnerability of our digital economy are not falling out of the sky. Previously, the WRR warned about the risks of digital disruption. If a telecom network suddenly fails, intentionally or because of a malfunction, the consequences can be great. Recently, the government experienced this itself when the computer systems were out for a long time. Previously, the emergency number 112 and the port of Rotterdam had to deal with digital disruption. A prepared person counts for two and therefore we should pay much more attention to our resilience to digital disruption. If the government and the vital sectors of our economy work together on this, this will increase resilience. A fire drill for the digital economy. A stress test, so that we can minimise the possible consequences of digital disruption. The last exercise is already three years ago. These ISIDOR III exercises also do not take place structurally, together with other stakeholders and vital sectors. What is the Minister's position on a structural cross-sectoral training programme which also involves testing with scenarios of network failure? Becoming more resilient is important, but prevention is always better than cure. As far as the VVD is concerned, we must be able to guarantee the Dutch that their data, surfing behaviour and phone calls remain confidential. That there is no risk that our digital enemies can read with it or, worse still, cripple data traffic. The task force that started to explore these risks at the request of the VVD has resulted in an AMvB that protects the critical parts of the network. A good first step, but not enough as far as the VVD is concerned. Certain surface components, such as RAN antennas, are not covered by that AMvB. This while it is clear that there are high risks of misuse of these antennas and that this risk will increase in the future. As far as the VVD is concerned, therefore, a high risk is too high. Can the Secretary of State give the guarantee to the Dutch users that the RAN antennas are safe and that there is no risk of eavesdropping or shutting down the network? The aim of a safe and fast 5G network must also be at the forefront of the auction. It is therefore necessary to prevent new entrants from buying low-money frequency space on the market and then not rolling out fast enough. This is detrimental to users and prevents digital innovation. Can the Secretary of State undertake that all participants in the 700 MHz auction will be subject to the same speed and maximum coverage requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	I have a question. I hear from my colleague that RAN is not included in the critical parts of 5G, so that there are no additional requirements on the reliability of suppliers. Where do you get that from and what do you think are critical parts of 5G?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	An interesting question. We also have an EU risk analysis, in which all these cases have been identified. It identifies the RAN network as a high risk rather than a critical one. We also think that high risk is too high a risk. I think it is clear that providers now also work with parties that we should include in the AMvB. That is what needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	According to the European Commission, RAN is indeed a high risk and not a critical one, but I do not know whether it translates entirely one-on-one into the demands made by the cabinet on the reliability of suppliers. The United Kingdom has drawn up a whole list which contains very precise elements which are actually critical elements which require specific requirements. Does the VVD agree with me that we should also get clarity from the cabinet in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	We are in favour of transparency. There is something to be said for the method now used by the UK. However, I have the impression that we in the Netherlands have said earlier that we are going to work with a task force, which discusses and decides certain matters and sets a course. This implies that it cannot always be communicated transparently. One is one method, the other is another method. I would also like to be more transparent, but this is the course that has been set. The question is indeed whether you should always be happy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	Very good. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, the whole of the Netherlands should be able to benefit from a safe and fast 5G network. That is why it is positive that there seems to be a solution for the satellite ground station in the Frisian Burum. This could also help the digital economy further in the North of the Netherlands. Only the military part of Burum will be moved. The remaining civilian part of Inmarsat provides communications in shipping and aviation, for example in the event of an emergency. This important work must continue to be possible in the future. The question is how the cabinet will make that possible. Mr. Chairman, finally. I think 5G is good. It opens doors to a more digital future. So, in order to manage that properly, we're going to auction. That's gonna happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. Then Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that vital sectors, processes and services in the Netherlands, such as ICT and telecoms, should be better protected. These are vital if we are to be able to decide independently as a nation and maintain our democratic values and the rule of law. The CDA wants to prevent evildoers from using these processes and services for their own gain, such as hackers who want to make money, companies who steal knowledge and technology without patenting, or countries with geopolitical motives and without democratic values, who want to take over a country without a physical war. Can the Minister of Justice and Security indicate whether cybersecurity is now an integral part of each department or whether there are ministries in which it is still a bit loose? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports the Secretary of State in its approach to impose strict requirements on operators of telecom services and their suppliers in this auction. We want companies that have close links with a government that pursues geopolitical goals without democratic values, not in the critical systems of 5G. With 5G it is possible to connect all kinds of devices. These connections involve a lot of personal information and we must ensure that that information is not tapped and abused. To be clear: the CDA wants a company like Huawei not to be able to enter the critical systems of 5G and therefore wants to limit their participation in non-critical systems. So: not in the critical systems, and in the non-critical systems limit their participation. There is a requirement in the United Kingdom: high risk providers may only participate in the non-critical parts up to 35%. Sounds like a good idea. I'd like a comment on that. It also seems important to us that there should be diversity of suppliers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	Does Mrs Van den Berg mean that the Radio Access Network is critical?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	As Mr Weverling pointed out just now, we do not know what criticism and what is not critical. Only, the task force knows that. We would like to inform the task force that the non-critical elements also limit suppliers who are at higher risk and come from countries with geopolitical motives and without democratic values.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	That's exactly what I agree with. But then the conclusion of this debate is in three hours' time that it is not so transparent. That's the bottom line. That was Mrs Buitenweg's question just now, but good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	Yes, but I think there is a great advantage to the approach we now have in the Netherlands. We all know that what is not critical today tomorrow could be critical of all technological developments. Therefore, thanks to the task force and behind the scenes, we can quickly switch with the operators and respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	There is no doubt that we simply need a secure and integrity network. But to what extent do you have to make national independent choices? Shouldn't you do that in cooperation with other EU partners who can also make a good assessment of the risks? All the more so, we have seen this in England, because sometimes the discussion seems to be polluted by commercial interests, while security interests must be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	My question is whether Mrs Van den Berg shares that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	For the CDA, safety is paramount here. That is why we have applied the concept that has been applied in England... I fully agree with Mr Moorlag that we need to see if we can also tackle certain things at European level. It has now been said in the United Kingdom that there must also be restrictions on what one supplier may supply in the case of non-critical systems. We think that is an interesting concept and we would like to hear a response to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	Safety is my priority, too. My question was whether we should do this together with EU partners. Mrs van den Berg mentions a country that is no longer part of the European Union. Unfortunately, I add. Shouldn't we strive for a clear standard based on an assessment by the EU countries? Because it is very strange that when I am in East Groningen, my telephone traffic running over RAN networks is subject to a different level of security than when I cross the border to East Frisia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	I agree with Mr Moorlag that we should try to pull together as much as possible. It is also nice that this toolkit came with suggestions from Europe. On the other hand, we have to bear in mind that the Netherlands is in the leading group of digitalisation and that in this sense we are much more vulnerable, even more so than our neighbour Germany, because everything there is much less intertwined with digitality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	I understand very well what is being said. It is difficult to decide at once what critical parts are, because that can change over time. But it is important for companies to know what those critical parts are now. Does Mrs Van den Berg think that companies should now be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	I believe that it is crystal clear for the companies concerned what the critical parts are and that they have been given the same information from the task force. Only, we've agreed that we're not going to communicate about that publicly. I have no indication that the companies do not have crystal clear what is critical and what is currently seen as non-critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	Does the CDA consider it acceptable that there are companies that know exactly what is critical and what is not and how our national security is protected, but that the parliament, the Dutch Parliament, should not know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	What I just indicated is that for the CDA, security is at the top. We believe that security is better served by the fact that at the moment, in the Netherlands, which is so digitally developed, all this information is not yet public. We may think differently in three years' time, but I have not yet heard any argument as to why we would not support the government's policy in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u25	I find that strange for a Member of Parliament. I do understand the CDA's assessment, but I also find it odd that Mrs Van den Berg says: maybe we will look at it differently in three years' time. Why should we not also give the Chamber some sort of control position and let ourselves be informed about how we can control this power of the cabinet, which is nevertheless solid and can be far-reaching, in one way or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u26	I believe that we have been given some information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u27	There is a General Measure of Management which contains a text indicating that the Cabinet gives itself the power to exclude certain companies and certain suppliers in a fairly general way. The fact that we have been briefed about this in advance as a Chamber is nice, but of course it is the way in which that power is used. It is about the way in which the cabinet is going to exercise that power. Shouldn't we, as the House of Representatives, be informed about this during the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u28	What Mr Verhoeven has just said is that it is a trade-off that you have to make. Are you doing business publicly or are you not doing it because of security? We consider the safety of the network to be extremely important. We believe that the security of the network is now more useful in the approach chosen by the cabinet. If that proves to be quite different in the course of this debate, including from the cabinet side, then I am happy to hear it. But at the moment, with everything we have discussed on this dossier together with Mr Verhoeven over the last two years, we believe that the safety of it is better served if it is not made public now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u29	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. In the United Kingdom, operators in certain geographical areas are not allowed to use equipment from high-risk providers, such as military bases, ports, Schiphol, in the Netherlands, Brainport, greenports, and perhaps ministries and parliament. Is the government going to apply such a measure in the Netherlands in line with my motion last year? I'd like a response from the Secretary of Defense. My colleague Harry van der Molen has indicated that knowledge institutions should be much more critical of the participation of Chinese students. What action will the Foreign Minister take to better protect our technology? I'd like a response. The CDA has previously indicated that safety and accessibility are more important than revenues. It is right, therefore, that, in addition to speed and coverage requirements, safety requirements are also high. However, we now understand that the auction must raise EUR 900 million. In this way, is there not enough money for the providers to meet all requirements? I'd like a response. There are no safety requirements if you buy only one block or are newcomer. That does not seem to us to be a fair economy. I'd like a response. The Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to carry out my motion that everyone in the Netherlands, including in the region, can have at least 100 megabits per second before 2023. Considering the recent Citrix problems: how well prepared are the municipalities and other governments? In addition, operators indicate that building a 5G motorway everywhere is not necessary for optimal coverage and that municipalities sometimes cooperate in the placement of masts and in endless litigation. Is there sufficient expertise in the municipalities? There are also concerns about safety. I would also like to comment on this point. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you. Then Mrs Buitenweg from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of hide-and-seek going on. I hope we can stop doing that today and give some clarity. I think it is really important to clarify who is or is not allowed to deliver which parts of 5G. This openness is important for companies, who really need to know what this means for their business operations. It is in the interests of citizens who are concerned about their autonomy and privacy. And that is, as we have said before, in the interests of our House of Representatives, because in order to do our controlling task properly, we need to know what the cabinet is actually doing and what it is failing to do, especially since national security is at stake. So I want to know for which parts of the network the cabinet demands that telecom companies use only trusted providers. In reply to my written questions, the Secretary of State replied that the list of critical parts was classified as confidential. Then what are the arguments for doing that? In my view, it is quite absurd, because telecom companies need to know what the government is asking them to do. So let's have some openness about that list. I assume, but that is a guess, that at least the core, i.e. the core network, is seen as a critical part, but not the whole RAN, Radio Access Network, is seen as a critical part. Do you? According to the European Commission, we are at great risk as malicious parties that are going to influence RAN. This risk will only increase in the years to come. For many applications of 5G, speed of data traffic is crucial. Those data will therefore be stored and calculated closer to the source. This makes the distinction between core and periphery less and less relevant over the years. Do the directors recognise this and see this RAN as a critical part of 5G?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u33	In fact, Mrs Buitenweg already points out that something which is not yet a critical system can develop into a critical system over the years. Does Mrs Buitenweg think you should make a different list every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u34	I do think that should be an audience if that changes. For I find it very strange that we say: we are very concerned about national security about 5G; therefore we say that some parts are critical parts and that you can only use trusted providers for those parts, but what those parts are, we keep secret. That's a crazy situation, isn't it? I think it is reasonable for you to tell the telecom companies if the technology changes at some point and you say: what we did not consider critical at first, namely the RAN, is now critical. These telecommunications companies must then be able to anticipate this. But that you think something super important to national security, that you really demand from telecom companies that they take action and that you then say that they shouldn't know what it's about, I find really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u35	However, as Mrs Buitenweg points out, these telecom companies know very well what is critical and what is not critical, because they have to make these adjustments. If you also put that information on the streets in a country as digitally interwoven as the Netherlands, does Mrs Buitenweg not think it is dangerous that evildoers can use it very easily again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u36	Let me first say that I like to hear it from the Secretary of State or the telecom companies, because I do hear other sounds about that, namely that they do not yet know exactly what is seen as a critical part and that they want to be able to prepare themselves. So I'd really like to hear it from the Secretary of State or the telecom companies. Then the question was: do I not think it is dangerous? I think it's only logical that... the British have also announced it. It's just that you say these are the parts you need to protect. I also find it very strange that, as a parliament, we should not be informed about something as important to our national security as a telecom company that does know and we should check whether the cabinet has taken the right measures. So I see only arguments to be transparent about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u37	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u38	I did agree with the CDA on a number of important points, and that is hopeful. One of them was what we do when, for example, the RAM is also considered non-critical. My colleague mentioned 35%, I believe. You can say that you should not have more than 35% in the hands of a certain untrustworthy supplier. I think that is wise, just as I think it wise to say that you don't want a company like Huawei in antennas around military bases, the port of Rotterdam, Eindhoven Brainport, Schiphol or the house of democracy here. So I very much agree with that. I'd like to hear the cabinet's response. The company Huawei is not a Voldemort. It's not a "he who shouldn't be called." We must openly say that Huawei, I think, is not seen as a trusted supplier. Why is the cabinet so foggy? Is it afraid to knock China over the head? But if the Huawei cabinet excludes or partially excludes it, does it hope that we can keep it a secret from the Chinese government? Don't you think he'll find out? Is it not very important for telecom companies to know which suppliers they can or cannot go with? At what point will we, as a Chamber, be informed about this? Something has just been said about Burum. The satellites there are crucial for the information position of the STUDY, but they disturb 5G at a certain frequency and are therefore partly moved to another country. But to what country? Actually, I'd like to know. Then how is that settled by treaty? What jurisdiction does the capture of all information via these satellites fall under? You can see those Burum satellites from far away, right from the train. There's nothing mysterious about that. Then why is this move suddenly mysterious? I'd like a response from the Secretary of Defense. According to the State Secretary, a private company has a large degree of freedom to determine how it routes the data traffic of its subscribers. Well, that's quite a responsibility. It is very important to know, for us too, whether data stays in Europe, for example, or passes through the United States or China. Can the Minister explain where the limit of freedom lies? Shouldn't a telecom company at least open up how data flows are now running?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u39	Very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u40	I'm afraid I have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u41	Yeah, I'm afraid so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u43	I call Mr Futselaar of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When discussing the security of the 5G network here and in other countries, we see that trade interests and legitimate fear of espionage run through each other. For example, we see this in the ongoing case of export licences for ASML. We're not the only ones struggling with this. In neighbouring Germany half a civil war is now taking place within the government party CDU. The British have just concluded a discussion that has been extremely difficult. On the one hand, we see an escalating trade war between the United States and China, in which we should not wish to take sides, but on the other hand, there is legitimate cause for concern about espionage by foreign powers. Moreover, it can be said that most cases of espionage are known mainly by our ally the United States. But it would be naive to think that the Chinese government does not operate similarly. We see that economic and political espionage is closely interwoven in practice. Convincing, hard evidence that Huawei uses his technique to spy, for example. At least that is missing in public. At the same time, we know that Chinese legislation allows the government to force Huawei to cooperate fully. So there's just a risk. In addition to espionage, China is a source of cyber attacks on the West, whether or not sanctioned by the government. We also run the risk that our networks will suddenly be disabled. As society is more dependent on 5G, the consequences are also increasing. That is why it is important that we are dependent as little as possible on one provider, no matter what comes out of it. Mr. Chairman. The SP sees value in the UK's recently known choice of making up to 35% Huawei products and core parts Huawei-free. Of course, it remains the question of how far it is actually possible to distinguish between core parts and other parts within 5G. It would be good if the cabinet could give some explanation of the possibilities and the possibilities. The legal possibilities are in the AMvB; the technical possibilities are unclear. When we make demands, they must be clear, unambiguous and public. That has been mentioned before, but it is strange that our British neighbours call man and horse and we do not. That is not only because it puts pressure on parliamentary control. I am a SP; it is not up to me to defend the shareholders' interests of multinationals. But I can imagine telecom companies saying: we need to be able to communicate to shareholders why we are suddenly making very big costs. Thirdly, you should argue in a rule of law why you make something confidential and not why you don't make something confidential. So there is also a point of principle. Mr. Chairman. A healthy distrust of any foreign power is wise, but it must be based as much as possible on facts. As far as SP is concerned, there is no reason to completely exclude Chinese companies from a 5G network, but to limit them. For the safety of our digital infrastructure, now and in the future, it is especially important that we are not dependent on any provider, whether Huawei, Ericsson or Nokia. This is also one of the most important recommendations in the European toolbox. Mr. Chairman. Let me just say a few words about the auction itself. The consultation is completed and the data is processed. There are a lot of worries in the country. The first one is located in municipalities. Municipalities are concerned about the mandatory authorisation of equipment on their municipal infrastructure. I would like to hear about how the cabinet deals with this criticism and whether it wants to meet some of the municipalities, because some of these concerns seem legitimate to me. Mr. Chairman. Then the health concerns and 5G. There's a lot of unrest. The World Health Organisation and the Health Council conclude that there is no scientific evidence that 5G is harmful. I don't see that scientific evidence either. We all know that the fact that I say this here is going to lead to a lot of e-mails with the same links and the same movies, but it has to be said. What I miss in the discussion are the Dutch scientists. Where are our knowledge institutions in that discussion? I would ask the Cabinet to call on it to intervene a little more. Now it is the Health Council, the Knowledge Platform EMV and opposite groups that organise themselves all the time. I don't think that's a healthy situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u45	On the initiative of the CDA, the request was made to the Health Council to check, on the basis of the latest scientific studies, whether the standards in the Netherlands are good. If that were to be confirmed positively, would that be enough for Mr Futzelaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u46	I guess I didn't make myself clear. I don't doubt the current science that says 5G is safe. There are a lot of groups in society that do have that doubt. The big problem is that these groups no longer trust the Health Council. That is why I would like it if Dutch science, nor part of that Health Council, interfered in the debate. Right now, all you have is the institutions and the Facebook groups, just to say the word. I don't think that's a healthy relationship. Hence the call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u47	On confidence, is Mr Futselaar aware that Australia and Japan, for example, do not want to cooperate with the Chinese and that Orange France, for example, does not want to cooperate? That suspicion must be based on something. It's not just that we're expressing our concerns about that, is it? They're several countries that don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u48	Yes, there are certainly several countries that do not want it, but there are also countries that allow it. It is not for nothing that I said: distrust is healthy when it comes to great powers. You just have to base yourself on facts. I don't trust the Chinese government. I don't trust the American government. I want to make this quiet about both of them. I'm sure they both do espionage. I have not seen any convincing evidence that it is necessary to completely ban Chinese companies from our 5G network. I don't know if the government has that either, but even if she does, she probably doesn't say that. That's what the judgment is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr Futselaar and I are not part of the committee secretly, at least, I assume that he is not part of it either...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u50	Strangely enough, I haven't been asked yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u51	The NCTV and other security organizations aren't here to brief us personally either, so you and I don't know a lot. There is more sharing with other countries, including with parliamentarians, than with us. You and I are ignorant about a lot of things. So be careful what you say until proven otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u52	I understand Mr Graus' argument, but I would point out that, for example, the British, who are far deeper in the pro-American espionage world than we, I would almost say, have chosen to allow this company to some extent. So I don't see that huge risk right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you. Then Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I have to think of those videos about 20 years ago, in which the ordinary man on the street is asked: do you want a mobile phone? In short, they said: well, I prefer not to be reached, that seems terrible to me, I am happier without it. Well, times change. Where accessibility was seen as a doomsday in 1999, it is now inevitable. The failure of telephone and internet connections can seriously disrupt our society. In our high-voltage society, we can no longer live without it. In new developments, it is also important to consider whether it is necessary and whether it contributes to a good life or a safe, stable, just society. Can the Secretary of State state state in her reply what exactly is the development that we are entering into with the auction of the 5G network? Why is this important, and now not just "for the economy" or "our growth" or "our competitive position," but also just for our society, for the people on the street, just the people of everyday life? Once introduced, 5G becomes a crucial infrastructure. In the event of misuse of data or failure of the network, the damage may be serious and even state security may be at stake. That's what we're worried about. In particular, there is talk in this Chamber about Huawei and possible Chinese interference. It is therefore a good thing to look critically and carefully at the partners involved. I am therefore pleased to read that this Secretary of State, in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and Security, is going to make heavier demands on critical parts of telecoms providers' networks. Suspect parties can be prevented from doing so. But it doesn't seem easy to me to determine that. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the consideration will be made, for which parts this will apply and which parties will be excluded? Can it also undertake to inform the Chamber of when these choices are made? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the process of auctioning the different frequency bands is also ongoing. My group has doubts as to whether the intention of the auction is the best way of achieving a fair auction with a result that is in the interests of our citizens. For example, the starting amount is high and the auction is blind. With my modest mathematical game theory knowledge, I expect this will not lead to the best outcome for both the consumer and the market. You can calculate that this doesn't get an optimal outcome. It would be rather embarrassing if spectrum were to remain on this market of scarcity. Is it true that other countries, e.g. Austria, have come back from a similar auction scheme because it threatened to fail? Has this also been the advice of auction advisors or was it mainly the Ministry of Finance, which is eagerly trying to get the best out of it, which will ultimately be paid by the Dutch consumer through high rates? One of the licensing conditions that my group considers important is that of a covering network for the whole country of at least 100 megabits. We were therefore pleased that this condition had been included in the Mobile Communications Note. But what is my surprise? If you take one block from the 700 megahertz band, you don't have to meet that condition at all. Then you can make the consumer delicious with a national 5G advert and with national 5G coverage and then you might as well deliver it in the Randstad, but in other parts of the country consumers have to check it out. I cannot imagine that this is the intention of this Secretary of State, who still has a great heart for the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u55	I found it interesting that Mr. Bruins also mentioned math, because he has a very different background from me. Hence the question whether Mr Bruins also considers it possible for one person to actually buy everything. Because I think that would have very negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u56	As I see the auction conditions now, and as I try to calculate that game theory, that would be a possible outcome. That would even be the most negative outcome. It is not blind and due to the limited number of players also the level of the starting amount are all matters that need to be examined very carefully in the game theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u57	I hope the cabinet will respond to that, because if one person gets everything, that would of course be the worst outcome of Mr Bruins' game theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u58	Absolutely. That would really be the worst thing for the consumer, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u59	Indeed, the worst, because that person, if he is a newcomer, is bound to much less demands. So is it your plea to ensure that there is openness about which participants participate in the auction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u60	I do not know whether openness is needed about which participants there are, but I do know about the number of participants, the bids made in multiple rounds. In short, you have to make sure that you mathematically expect to grow to a stable point in some steps. The way I see it now, things may suddenly have ended in too few steps. Then you don't get the optimal outcome. I don't know if there's a need for names.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u61	Are you not also concerned about this, because I am doing so because a newcomer can suddenly arrive, as happened in Norway, for example? Then it turned out to be an American-Ukrainian businessman with good ties to the Kremlin, who bought up a whole band in one go. Isn't that something you're worried about? Don't you think that at least it should be known if there isn't such a newcomer where it might be problematic if he gets a whole band like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u62	That's a very good question. I can't foresee the consequences right away. In any case, the auctioneer must have all the information. If you ask me like that, I think that at least pre-arrangements and rules must have been made before you start the auction. That's what I'm imagining. I think it would be good if I received a comprehensive answer from the Secretary of State to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u63	Preferably with a lot of mathematical formulas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u64	Oh, great, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u65	My knowledge of game theory is limited. Now that Mr Bruins has introduced that term, I am a little nervous about how I can oversee everything. That is why I ask Mr Bruins: does he have any prophecy, because he knows that game theory? Is that a theory on which you can predict outcomes? It seems to me that the decisions of companies to register in a certain way or not are not mathematically predictable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u66	Such an auction can be calculated entirely with a mathematical model. But of course you never get absolute outcomes; you get probabilities. So you get percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u67	Okay, thank you. Then can you tell me something about the probabilities? Apparently, therefore, there is a very likely outcome. So there you have very important knowledge, which is really of value to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u68	I don't have any special knowledge in my hands. I'm assuming the people in the Ministry are using the auction models. This includes all kinds of game theory knowledge, which is undoubtedly also present at the ministry when they think about setting up the auction. I don't have an ideal, exclusive knowledge or anything. This is just sophomore university math.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u69	As far as general education is concerned, I've never made it past Mavo 4. But I also have the inconvenience that Mr Bruins is expressing here. I also care if this is going to give the best social return. Think also of the blind aspect. This means risks and uncertainties for companies. They're being priced. Either that prints the yield, or that becomes a cost for the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u70	Exactly. You're doing the game theory. You don't even need the math. This is exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u71	Yes. That's just Groningen's sense of farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u72	That's just farmers' sense, I'm sure. But mathematics is also common sense. It's nothing magical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u73	In Groningen it is sometimes said: the dumbest farmers have the thickest potatoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u74	Very good, very good. Professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr Bruins (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. But what should be the solution to this? I do, however, know the model of a competitive dialogue for tendering. So you go into dialogue with the candidates to see if you can come to a better outcome. Then it is not the interests of the bidders that determine, but the importance of society; that must, of course, be decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u76	So let me give the answer in farmers' senses. In my opinion, you should eliminate the risk of too few rounds as much as possible and ensure that information is shared between the rounds, so that there are no gaps in the end and there is also an optimal outcome for the consumer. Without any mathematics, I think that's the farmers' sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u78	Then it seems to me that together we should ask the Secretary of State if she wants to engage in this dialogue with the bidders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u79	Then I, also on behalf of Mr Moorlag, pass this question to the left, to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u80	Very good. Mr Graus of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group has always been in favour of a quick roll-out of 5G, like most parties in the Chamber. But we do have a problem, because we are a little bit suspicious, to be honest. That is because we are not only relying on what we think, but certainly on what many countries have decided. I have just mentioned a few countries: Japan, Australia and France. It's not all for nothing. Let's agree on that. Besides, there's more going on around China. We are even working on a China strategy and on it all; there are a lot of things going on right now. But I told you, I'm not on the committee secretly and I'm not informed by the STUD, the AIVD or the NCTV. We are the spokesperson and we have to advise a group, but we know very little. I spent a few years on the De Wit Committee. At that time it was also apparent that MPs were not actually properly informed, but had to make decisions. And then those MPs get that on their bread afterwards. So I find it very difficult. So I am certainly not going to support this on behalf of my group either, because I do not think that we are well informed. I am very concerned on behalf of my group. I'm telling you the truth. In addition, I don't want to fail people; for example, Mr Futselaar was a little more careful about it. So that's what I want to say about this. We have also always asked very critical questions. My colleague Raymond de Roon even tabled a motion last year, which was motion 35207, No. 10 July 2008 with the request to the Government to immediately decide to exclude Huawei from the construction of the 5G network in the Netherlands and to take the necessary measures for that purpose. Of course the PVV was before, but also GroenLinks, 50PLUS and the SGP. And Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. Today it is 50 MIN, I believe; 50PLUS and 50MIN. They all supported that back then. That's not all for nothing either. It was quite a lot of parties. I want firm guarantees. I know that the Wiverling motion has already ruled out much through the task force and the AMvB, but we remain concerned. I'm sorry, Mr. Weverling, it's all well-intentioned with that motion, but we really want firm guarantees. We are aware of the need and the benefits outlined by the CDA. We know what the benefits and the need for 5G are, but we also know what the dangers are. We want to know what the alternatives are, both in the long term and in the short term. Even when it comes to semi-finished products, you don't get out of the Chinese anymore. You're always linked to China. We want to know what the Americans and all those other countries are going to do. I mean, the wheel's already been invented, right? Isn't that what other countries are leading the way when it comes to this? Have there been sufficient contacts with the counterparts and has there been sufficient consultation? The CDA talked about the diversity of suppliers, but we simply have a hard-hitting preference for as many Dutch companies as possible, where possible. Then the American companies come, if they can't do it with Dutch companies. And last but not least, European companies. But preferably not Chinese companies. What are the alternatives? I want firm guarantees in terms of security, espionage and independence. I just want guarantees for that, otherwise I'll even consider voting negative. This time I want to have really tough guarantees, not: yes, 80% or 90%. No, it really needs to be completely safe. Then I can answer to a committee of inquiry again, because at least I have done everything I can to find out the information to determine whether we have made a good decision. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the auction. I understand that a large provider with quite a lot of power and power is trying to destroy smaller providers by delaying the auction. In the meantime, these companies are obviously screwed up; you can feel that. I would have liked to have a commitment to that, too, that this auction will take place in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u83	I have four seconds left, Mr. The... Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u84	No, you're five seconds past your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u86	Nice to meet you, too. We are going to listen to Mr Moorlag from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr. Chairman. We're vulnerable as a society. Our dependence on ICT is growing and we need to be sure that our vital infrastructure is inherently safe. How vulnerable we are is evident from the recent casusism. Think, for example, of the University of Maastricht, but also of our own problems with our Citrix system, in which there was a security risk. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the 5G network, and 5G is just becoming vital infrastructure. It is very good that the focus is on this, but on the other hand I wonder whether we are not just talking about the camel's nose today. The problem is much bigger. For example, we also have control systems for our dams, for energy supply and for seaports. This does not run through 5G; it can also run through fixed networks. Software is important in that too. Finally, I call the data centers, for the management of our data. Data centers are more than 90% in American hands. They fall under the U.S. jurisdiction, where access to that data is also very easy for a snooping government. So should we not broaden this issue further to that fragile infrastructure I mentioned just now, and to data management and cloud services? And should we not develop appropriate and proportionate measures for this? Mr. Chairman. My plea is to do so especially at EU level. As a country, we can make our standards separate, but that also makes ourselves vulnerable. We have seen how the debate has been polluted in the United Kingdom, because security interests and trade interests have become very mixed together. The US government has also put strong pressure on the United Kingdom. I have two questions for the rulers here. One. Do they share the view that we should do as much as possible at European level with our EU partners to assess risks and formulate appropriate proportionate measures? And two. Not only in assessing risks, but also in taking measures, we must apply as much uniformity as possible. Because, frankly, I rely more on the German and French intelligence services than on the American ones, for the reason I have just mentioned. Mr. Chairman. There must also be clarity about what can and cannot be done. That's got to be an audience, too. Suppliers are entitled to do so, operators are entitled to do so and we are entitled to do so, and even an organisation like Huawei is entitled to do so to my liking. It is a company of which 600 employees are employed in the Netherlands. A few brief comments, Mr President, on the health risks. I very much agree with Mr Futselaar. We must base ourselves on scientific insights, but science is not always cast in concrete, and can change scientific insights. So I think there should be an eye for that. This dialogue with the critics, which I advocated last June, must continue. I fully agree, also because of the time, with Mr Bruins' comment on the auction system. That needs to be optimized to my taste. Does the government share that view? Finally, I would like to express my thanks, because the conditions for auctioning provide for a high level of rural coverage, unless you are a single provider on a frequency. I really think that is a plus in the proposed policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u88	This simple Limburg boy would like to ask the farmer boy in Groningen for a favor, because I did not come to that safety aspect, on which Mr Moorlag also asked a question. We are also concerned about those radiation values, but the RIVM guarantees that it falls within the values. And here's my question, Mr. Chairman. The number of cell towers and antennas will increase rapidly in use. We would like to ask for permanent monitoring. Perhaps you can support this, or at least pass it on, and I am very grateful to you. I'm also using you as a pass-through hatch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u89	Apart from the question of whether I should act as a passing-through door, I think that we should monitor, including as regards scientific insights. I said in an earlier debate, and I underline what Mr Futselaar said: we must base ourselves on the views of the scientific institutes, but science can sometimes be sidelined or new insights. Scientifically proven that the extraction of gas in Groningen could happen safely and at some point that scientific insight has changed a bit. I very much agree with Mr Graus that we should continue to monitor developments and that we should also seek dialogue with those who have other insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u90	Fine, thank you. Mr Verhoeven of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mr President. We are in a global technology battle fought with artificial intelligence, quantum technology and 5G between the blocks of the United States, China and the European Union. These technologies are the geopolitical means of power of the future, for example what we are talking about today, the 5G network of the Netherlands and the admission of certain companies, such as Huawei from China. Another example is the situation in ASML. It is incredibly important that we as a country have a vision of this, so I ask the cabinet how it looks at the position of the Netherlands in that global technology struggle. My next question is whether we should not do this at European level. The answer from the D66 Group is yes. Should we not work on serious European alternatives, a much stronger European tech industry, European security policy when it comes to allowing suppliers and stronger and assertive trade and industrial policy instead of per Member State? My question to the cabinet is whether the Netherlands is fully committed to this. If not, why not? My other question is: how does the cabinet look at European suppliers in this 5G market, and I mean Nokia and Ericsson? There is a general measure of governance and thus the cabinet can exclude risky suppliers in certain cases, on certain parts of the network. How does this fit in with the policy in the countries around us? That's an important question, isn't it? I have heard a number of colleagues say something about the United Kingdom and Germany, but I am also very curious about how the cabinet makes that comparison. Then there is the role of the House of Representatives, which I have just mentioned. The cabinet has quite a large power to exclude certain companies from the Dutch market, in this case for the telecom infrastructure. I do not find it strange in itself that the cabinet wants this power, but it is also a power that requires little support. The House of Representatives does not play any part in this at all. We have a debate now, but not only do we know very little as a Chamber, as Mr Graus said, but we also have very little to say about it. That is because we are not actually informed at all. I would therefore like to ask the Cabinet how it will inform the House of Representatives about the way in which this power is used. My question would be: can the Chamber be informed? And in what way? Is there any other way to think about a form of supervision? For example, the services involved are monitored by the CTIVD. Is it possible to think in that sense about a little more control over this decision-making? Then roll out. 5G is not only dangerous to state security............................................................................................................................................................................................. Companies suffer from the fact that there is a great deal of uncertainty as to how this decision is taken. I'd like to hear from the cabinet how that's going. The position of the companies: it is not only about what they themselves hear about how they may or may not allow other parties to access certain parts of the infrastructure, but also about how unpredictability arises in the market. Of course, that's also something that's involved. I would like to join with colleagues' questions on the move from Burum. That's what I'm doing with the auction. I found the contribution of the Christian Union in the area of transparency and optimalness very interesting. Indeed, the same applies to the demand for the auction to take place in Austria. Then there's health. We must, of course, keep our finger on the pulse, but we are basically following science, and I believe that this is also the point made by Mr Futselaar, namely that we must ensure that this issue is considered as objectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u92	Thank you. Perfect on time. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Lately, there's been a lot to do about 5G. Is it harmful? Is there a health risk? Do we even need it? What about any espionage? All right, all right, all right. All right. All right. We already have a coverage 4G network in the Netherlands. 4G-plus is now also available in many places. The speeds we achieve with this are often even higher than those with the wired connections at home. So the first, very important question that arises is: what problem actually solves 5G? What problem that we now have or that we will see in the near future should be solved by 5G? It works on a millimetre wave frequency and its range is very small. The cabinets that need to be connected emit much more radiation than at 4G, but those cabinets have a much smaller range. That makes it necessary to create a well-functioning covering network to place a 5G antenna on each lamp pole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u94	I would like to return to Mr Baudet's previous remark. He says: we already have a well-functioning 4G network everywhere. I don't know if Mr Baudet ever comes to a region, but at least I travel regularly through areas in the Netherlands where that is not yet covering. Hence our previous motion and request the Secretary of State to provide that cover. That's more of a suggestion I'd like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u95	Yes, all support, of course, for the suggestion to improve the network where it does not yet function perfectly. But in principle that 4G network is still present in large parts of the Netherlands. I think this can be seen as a valuable addition rather than a real contradiction to my general outline of the situation. I'll come back to the point of 5G: more radiation with less range. In addition, tests have shown that the 5G system is so sensitive to environmental factors that it no longer works in rain, in heavy fog or in other situations. There are still no applications in sight, even in the short term, for which 5G would be needed. Self-driving cars and things like that: very complex artificial intelligence applications are not yet available. There is also far too little known about the effects on health. I know that it is against the hair of some of my colleagues, but my view is that too little is known about the possible harmful effects on health. The International Agency for Research on Cancer has assessed that radiation released at 5G is potentially carcinogenic in humans. There are scientific studies that indicate a possible connection of radiation with brain tumours, Alzheimer's and infertility in men, so no minor ailments. In 2018, the cabinet was asked by the EU that the roll-out of 5G in the Netherlands would take too long. It takes so long, because STUDY uses the 5G frequency spectrum for its work, at least that's one of the reasons. We do not believe that STVD will be able to carry out this work in the near future, because we are obliged by the EU to roll out that 5G network. It is up to us to decide whether we want it in our country or not. And then we haven't even talked about the espionage risks. Huawei and ZTE pose a major security risk to national security. The last thing we want, of course, is to be spied on by the Chinese government. Everyone knows the images of mass surveillance in Chinese villages and cities. The artificial intelligence there is far beyond ours. But also the recklessness and the unscrupulous intervention by the government in private life, are all major risks associated with the implementation of 5G at this stage. We therefore believe that there should be a moratorium on the implementation of this project. We need to take a break. Safety is not in order and there are health risks. There are no applications at all that we want to realize at the moment, so there is no need at all to do so now. Let us focus on more European alternatives. You may be surprised to hear me say that, but that can very well be done without central control from the European Union. In fact, it would work much better if Dutch companies and Dutch academic institutions were to work together with other countries in our environment, to develop our own technology, our own high-tech innovation, and to ensure that we can develop further, but not with things we don't understand, that come from the east or that come from China, of which we have now absolutely not covered the risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u97	It is above all an enlightening question. Things from the east? We have Ericsson and Nokia. Those are actually European champions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u98	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u99	They want to be a supplier, also for Dutch telecom companies, of 5G. What's the problem with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u100	That the nuclear technology that we are talking about cannot go beyond Chinese manufacturing at the moment. So I totally agree. Involve Nokia, Ericsson or other European start-ups or companies that we do not currently mention or which we may not yet know but which do exist, perhaps in France, perhaps in the Netherlands and so on. I am very much in favour of that. But what we're doing right now is implementing a great Chinese technology here. We simply don't have the risks in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u101	But I think we're just here trying to figure out how to cover those risks. That's what I'm really worried about. But I hear Mr Baudet say at the same time: we should not do the whole 5G for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u102	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u103	But in the meantime, there are also European companies that want to roll out 5G with Nokia or Ericsson. Are you saying we're not gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u104	Not as long as a large component of Chinese technology is required.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u105	I also have a clarifying question. I get the impression that Mr Baudet says that we could not build the 5G network without Chinese technology, but then Mr Baudet is really misinformed. Mrs Buitenweg also gives the examples of Ericsson and Nokia. There are also several American companies that supply very specific parts. I thought I'd give that to Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u106	Yeah, parts. Of course. But as it stands, China plays a major role in all the models I've seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u107	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u108	So that's not true. The network can be built without Chinese components being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u109	Yes, but all you're talking about is the hardware.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u110	No, we're just talking about the integral system. The discussion we are having here is about the question: can Chinese companies supply the critical parts? I have the impression that we are saying this in its entirety: no, we do not want that. As a CDA, we also want the supply of non-critical parts from China to be limited. But if you want, you can build the entire network without Chinese companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u111	Then you are talking, I think, of a theoretical possibility at the moment. I know it has been said that we may also be able to do it with European and American companies only, but in all the actual implementation scenarios, including affordability, which are then discussed, Huawei plays a major role. If we were to opt for a much more expensive European or American implementation, my other objections would still remain; they will not change. But there would indeed be fewer objections on that point; I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u112	Just as enlightening. I heard Mr Baudet say that we are obliged by the European Union to roll out 5G.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u113	Well, "obligatory" is a big word, but at least we are strongly encouraged to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u114	In my view, we in the Chamber simply have the power to roll out 5G or not. If Mr Baudet is able to get a majority here not to do so, then the European Union can be completely ignored.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u115	I would like to thank Mr Moorlag for stressing the importance of national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u116	Would Mr Baudet also like to return to 3G?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u117	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u118	Thank you. I shall suspend until 5 p.m., then we will listen to the ministers and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u119	I give the floor to the Secretary of State. After that, I can see in what order the other rulers might be speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. It is good to start with the question: why are we standing here today? What is the importance of 5G? The issue I am mainly working on in this debate is the question: what is the importance of multi-band auctions? 'Cause that's what you're talking about. It's good to make that difference every time. What I do as Secretary of State is auctioning frequencies. This is what we are doing this next year and a half on the parts 700, 1400 and 2100 tyres. Those tyres can be used for 5G technology, but you can also run excellent 4G technology on them. A lot of the promises 5G has still to be developed. At the same time, these multi-bands are needed, and later the 3.5-band, because we all use more and more data. These data are in all kinds of ways in our e-mail traffic, in our communication, in streaming services, but also increasingly in new possibilities that 5G technology is going to offer us. I would like to mention, for example, the possibilities in the field of agricultural precision. The technology can be used to know very precisely, remotely, what is needed on water, for example. There may be too much or too little water. I refer, for example, to the use of pesticides. I call drones that are going to use that technology. I call crowdcontrol. We are with more and more people, so it is also important that you can respond to incidents in a quick and adequate way at major events. I would like to mention one last example that has reached me. At the moment when an ambulance arrives at someone who has heart problems, a heart scan can be performed on the spot, which can then be assessed immediately in the hospital by expert doctors. So, Chairman, it's not funny. Sometimes they do, for example when it comes to streaming good movies, but it is also something that offers new possibilities. This will bring us benefits as a society. And it is also a subject on which other countries are developing very hard. So ultimately, as the Netherlands, we want to maintain our good position, in terms of economic growth and with our fast connections, in which we are the number 1 of Europe, then we will also have to continue with these multi-band auctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u121	I heard Madam Secretary talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u122	It's Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u123	Yeah, exactly. I heard her talking about "finally." She said, "If we want to end up, we have to and so on." What period does it intend to put in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u124	I think after 5G there will be all kinds of new techniques. So you can do it in the very short term and in the very long term. In the very short term, I want the multiband auction completed by the summer. In 2022, the 3,5 GHz band follows. And in the end, with all the new technologies that are going to come, developments are going to happen very quickly, and I also want to be able to offer the Dutch citizen those opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u125	I understand. The question wasn't what her own time schedule was. She made the point that we in our economy need that in the end in order to be able to participate. That's the kind of sentence it was. It's the word "finally." She said, "We have to do that eventually." I agree. The technology is unstoppable and we need to deal with it. Only, my own assessment is that we have quite a few years left and that we can also use those few years to invest in a new technology that is European and affordable. Unlike what we have now or with the cheap Chinese, but then we lose our privacy. That's what it's about all the time. I think we've got a few more years. Why does the Secretary of State think he didn't? It keeps changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u126	I listened to Mr Baudet's analysis, but I could not quite place it. Technical developments are moving very fast. Dutch citizens also want to make use of this. You're gonna need frequencies for that. That's one of the reasons I'm working on this multi-band auction right now. In addition, there are currently existing licences at those multi-band auctions. They end in September. Then you have frequencies that are not used, but to which there is an incredible need. That is why these multi-band auctions will be launched in the short term. In the longer term, in two years, we'll have the 3.5-band. This is very concrete about 2022. There are, of course, all kinds of technical developments which, in my view, also raises a problem for Mr Baudet. So I don't really understand why you want to put a brake on these new developments, if they can bring so much good, just as I just mentioned with a few examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u127	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u128	This is to indicate the importance of what we are doing here. Then I'll talk about auctioning, safety and radiation, and then there's another cup of "other." Then you can keep track of it. I have been asked a number of questions about the auction, for example on the subject of reserve price; the minimum price or the minimum yield, as is commonly referred to. We didn't go ice cream in one night. We have looked very closely at how this has been done in other countries and what the revenues have been. We have really looked for an optimal yield: not too much and not too little. On the one hand, this is, of course, also a state interest. Eventually, the revenue generated flows to the state treasury. This government can then use the money to finance other important things. But the proceeds should not be so high that there is no room for providers to invest. Otherwise, you'll have beautifully auctioned frequencies, but you'll have providers who can't do anything with it. The minimum prices in the auction are thus set in this way. In total, this results in a minimum yield of just over EUR 900 million. The parties have their own bids in hand in the auction. They will also take into account in their valuations the safety requirements we set out, but also, for example, the coverage requirements. I am assuming that our minimum amounts will not hinder the provision of these commercially attractive frequencies, let us also establish this with one another..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u129	In fact, I hope to be able to ask the Secretary of State to give us some more text and explanation. She says: our goal was the optimum yield. Then it looks like it's a purely financial incentive. I don't think she means this, but it would also be very bad. After all, of course, there is an optimal contribution to a public interest. As it has now been formulated, it seems as if money is mainly being sent on. That seems really bad in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u130	No, Mr. Chairman. It is good in this discussion to realize every time what the importance is that we stand for here, as we are all together. This is, on the one hand, a matter of state interest and, on the other hand, a matter of consumer interest. In this way, we have looked at other countries: Germany, France, Belgium, to name three. How did this kind of money get there? It also looked very closely at the investments needed not to end up with a huge return and at the same time with providers who can't do anything anymore. So, just as Mrs Buitenweg says, on the one hand there is a look at what should be minimal revenue for the state treasury in reasonable terms and how to ensure that there is room for providers to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u131	From the outset, the CDA has stated that safety, speed and coverage are more important than the proceeds of the auction. Now the Secretary of State says: yes, but with the EUR 900 million we can do nice things for consumers again. The EUR 900 million will eventually be raised by the tariffs that the providers are going to introduce, so that is already being paid by consumers. Will the 900 million really be specifically invested in ICT or telecommunications projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u132	No, the proceeds of these kinds of auctions flow into the wallet of the Minister of Finance. And in budgetary negotiations that we conduct every year, we all decide what we do with the money in the state treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u133	It's good to hear that maximum yield isn't being sent. The starting prices are considerable, but in the end it is about the number of steps needed for an optimal return. That is the best possible product and as much of the spectrum to be spent as possible. In doing so, the providers have an insight into the questioning or the questioning per round, so that they can focus on the question of what a realistic bid is and what other players do. I am not so worried about the starting price, but about the combination of the starting price and the fact that it is blind. I think that leads to a suboptimal product at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u134	The question of how transparent the auction is has also been raised by Mrs Van den Berg. I think it would be a good idea to explain how it is going. The auctioneer starts with a first round, gives a prize and then asks the providers: how many lots, how many permits do you want? Something will come out of it at some point. In the scheme as it stands, there is no communication about it. This is also one of the issues raised in the consultation on the auction scheme by a number of people and companies that responded. Now we are looking at how we can introduce more transparency into the system in order to understand at an aggregated level, i.e. at a total level, how many lots are ultimately needed. Then you make the ban visible, anonymized. This way you can offer more transparency about the auction. Here you have to find an auction model that leads to that optimal yield, but without collusion. I think that's the proper word for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u135	Yes, it is true that the questioning and the questioning per round is indeed a matter of making it visible at the aggregate level. That is exactly the type of transparency I am asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u136	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u137	I would like to ask, just to be sure, whether the Secretary of State can indicate that she is prepared to adapt the conditions of auction and to achieve more transparency than the information we have as a Chamber has suggested. If so, that would be the first positive conclusion of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u138	At aggregated level. The ban, as Mr Bruins put it, does give insight. Mr. Chairman. That's what I've been doing on this subject. Then a number of you, among others by Mr Weverling, asked about the commitment to cover. Does the coverage obligation apply to anyone who acquires a licence, regardless of its quantity? The requirement for coverage has indeed been imposed on the 700 MHz licences, but not only there, as it also applies to the 800 and 900 MHz licences already in possession. These frequencies have been acquired a long time ago and are already being deployed in the current networks of the three operators. In general, a wide combination of frequencies makes it easier to meet the coverage requirement. If you also impose this requirement on someone who acquires one lot, you actually impose an obligation that is not feasible. This will remove the competition from the auction, because anyone who realizes that a newcomer who acquires one lot will get this unrealized cover obligation, will probably be very reluctant to participate in this auction. So you're actually getting the competition out of the auction. That is something we all do not want. We want to keep competition in this system, because it ultimately creates attractive prices for consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u139	Let me give you a brief explanation. Can it be market-distorting if someone has bought one such block, for example only the 700 block? He can, perhaps on a much smaller scale, still tell consumers to have 5G. That it doesn't work equally well everywhere, that consumer doesn't know at the time. He can therefore create expectations that he cannot live up to, so he can get in the way of the solid providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u140	In any case, all licences are also subject to an entry into service obligation. You need to realize that, too. In addition, anyone who acquires spectrum will also have to invest in antenna networks. That obligation is already there anyway. Again, we need to realize that we are talking about frequencies here. What you do with it is something else. Then you actually get more into consumer law: someone claims to do something he can't do. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins asked me whether it was true that other countries, such as Austria, have returned from the auction system. I don't think the Austrian auction failed. The transparency rules were extended there at the very last minute. So that's a little along the lines of the conversation we just had with each other. These are the subjects I have just discussed with you. Finally, under the heading 'Auction', I have the discussion on Inmarsat. Inmarsat is the provider of a service that sees the safety of communication with regard to, for example, shipping. This is a topic that applies especially to the 3.5-band. But because it has been specifically asked, I think by Mr Weverling, it is good to bring it up here too. To begin with, it's just good to say that it was already announced in 2017... 2007, thank you Mr. Weverling. In 2007, it was already announced that the 3.5-band is intended for mobile communications. That was almost 13 years ago, so this company can't be surprised. At the same time, this issue does have my attention, because it concerns the safety of shipping traffic. For the past summer vacation I have spoken with this company to see if co-existence, as it is so beautifully called, is a solution on this band. That's not true. That's not a solution here. It is also good to know that this company itself is now taking measures with the help of new satellites to eventually ensure that the company can provide for that communication in a different way. If you were to ask me if I would finally leave room for Inmarsat on that 3.5-band, my answer would be no, because it undermines the band's consistency and makes the band less attractive to telecom providers. This may have the consequence that this band is not available everywhere in the North Netherlands for 5G. If you combine this with the fact that we are talking about a company that has known this for 12 or 13 years, then I think it is justified to ask them to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u141	Of course, I do not need to argue for a commercial company here, but we are talking about emergency facilities for aviation and shipping. So that is essential for everyone. Within that 3.5 GHz we have 4 times 100 MHz. If we sell up to 3 times 100 through the auction, we'll have one more 100. We can use these 100 for local use, for example for the port of Rotterdam, and therefore partly for the shipping and air traffic of Inmarsat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u142	No, the intention is precisely to make this spectrum available for mobile communications on a continuous basis; this has also been included in the Note mobile communications. If you get a piece of that, it'll be less interesting in the auction. This may also have consequences for mobile communications. As mentioned above, it was already announced in 2007 that this band is intended for mobile communications. An international company like Inmarsat can be expected to take action. That doesn't mean we're not talking to this company. We're definitely gonna do that. That is precisely because of the importance which Mr Weverling has so clearly expressed here, namely communication with regard to, for example, shipping.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u143	I go a long way with the Secretary of State's speech. I'm just trying to understand what's going on when we sell 3 times 100, when we have 400, but I suspect this is because of my limited knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u144	It's highly technical. I fully agree with Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u145	Mrs. Buitenweg is going to catch us up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u146	No, I'm not gonna do that. It was a bit of a déjà vu. I was here yesterday, too, for the fireworks ban. There the VVD also advocated compensation for entrepreneurs. So I thought for a second, this looks familiar. But that wasn't the point. I understood that the Secretary of State had finished the heading "Auction." She has not yet answered the question, which I had actually rerouted through a colleague, about the consequences when a newcomer suddenly comes forward and maybe even buys a new band at once, as happened in Norway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u147	We have included as spectrum caps that a provider should never acquire more than 40% of the frequencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u148	That's right. That's true of all frequencies. But if you add up the 700, 1400 and 2100, it's possible for a newcomer to acquire all of them and still be under 40%. That 40% counts for the total number of frequencies, not per band. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u149	That's right, and I don't think if you add all that up, it can happen that a provider alone can acquire all frequencies. There's a table for that. I am not prepared to do so here alone, so, if you will allow me, I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u150	I'd love to. And I am not talking about the current providers, because they are running at 40%, I understand that. I'm talking about a new person who's coming to this market all the way from the outside. I think that would still be 40%. I would like to see that answer before the second deadline, otherwise I might be able to table another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u151	There! There's still a lot of demands to be made. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u152	I will make sure it gets to Mrs Buitenweg via the well-known roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u153	I felt, together with Mr Bruins, that there might still be some possibility of optimisation, particularly in terms of social value. It goes too far to mention all the examples, but that amount has to be paid all at once, for example, can mean that a new entrant has to have very deep pockets or get high capital costs, because he has to acquire that capital externally. Can't that spread out? There are more examples. My question to the Secretary of State was in the first term: is she prepared to speak again with potential candidates? Is it prepared to engage in a competitive dialogue with a view to achieving greater optimisation? Then we don't have to discuss all these technical matters here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u154	We have a careful procedure here, because it is also about something and it is about big money. I'd like to stick to that procedure. We have now had a consultation and there have been quite a few reactions, including this one. If you're talking about these kinds of amounts, I think I can say something for myself to see if you can pay it spread out. At the same time, previous auctions did not reveal that this was a problem, although the revenues were significant. But this is a subject on which I would like to enter into the discussion with the Ministry of Finance, which is spread over payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u155	There is another point that calls for dialogue with the parties, namely the level of coverage of the 5G networks. I went over that, but one of the parties I spoke to said, "Imagine if the municipality doesn't grant permits." The board doesn't want to modify the zoning plan or issue environmental permits. Then there's an operator at the bar. In my view, there is also an optimization option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u156	If I understand Mr Moorlag correctly, he is asking me whether a provider has been kept to the impossible if, for example, a municipality refuses to issue a permit. Under, for example, the Telecom Code, which is European legislation, we will have to ask municipalities to authorise the installation of antennas on municipal private property. Under construction legislation, smaller antennas are not subject to building permission. But if there is a situation in which a provider cannot meet the requirement of coverage, while he is there and the reason is force majeure, then of course the conversation is about that. No one has been held to the impossible. But of course you get a discussion every time: okay, but why is that so in this case? That is a question of enforcement and, as you know, there are standard procedures for this, in which you make that assessment with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u157	I would just like to check on this because perhaps I can refrain from a motion that we have just received a commitment that transparency will be introduced as to whether there is questioning or over-questioning, but also on the level of that over- or interrogation at the same level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u158	Yeah, at aggregated level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u159	Then you don't need a second term. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u160	Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mrs. Van den Berg is camping at the interrupting microphone today. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u162	I have a brief question to ask about the position of municipalities. The Secretary of State says about the case that municipalities do not want to cooperate: no one is kept to the impossible. We also hear that municipalities do cooperate, but ask for the top prize for putting down that mast. Then how does the Secretary of State deal with that? In that case, we may not be held to the impossible, but we are asked for such prices that it is not reasonable to do so anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u163	One of the questions that I believe has been asked is what I am doing to provide information about this whole process. I think it's good to say that in seven places in the country with about 350 people, organizations and communities has been talking about this whole story. I believe, or even I am sure, that it is also in the interests of municipalities, because in the interests of their citizens, to ensure that these multi-band frequencies can ultimately be used for any technology. In the conversation I have with municipalities about fiber optics, for example, I say, ladies and gentlemen, be a bit aligned with each other on this subject, so that telecom providers, fiber optics companies in this example, do not constantly run into other rules. This also applies, of course, to the placing of antennas on municipal soil. In doing so, a private-law fee shall be charged for the land or fees shall be charged on the basis of regulations. Of course, these fees are governed by rules that a municipality has to comply with. So the conversation about this is going on. Of course, Mrs Van den Berg cannot ask me to give an answer for every situation now, because that depends only on what it is about. A citizen must, moreover, first of all report to the municipal council, which will suffer from not being sufficiently deployed or able to use frequencies because the municipality does not want to. By the way, I come across a lot of municipalities that take information as sponges on how they can ensure that this is done in a smooth way in their congregation too. That's my experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u164	Thank you. I have another question, following the auction. I am delighted that the Secretary of State is giving transparency, including the extent to which there is over- or undercutting. What about when a newcomer buys one band, one block, thinks "I have" and then wants to sell it for the top prize to someone who would like to have another one of those blocks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u165	An acquired lot, an acquired licence, must be put into service within five years, otherwise you must return it. This, of course, also has implications for the negotiation process that would take place in such a situation. I therefore believe that this depends on the negotiation process that is taking place at such a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u166	Then Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u167	I think I found the table. It says that 40% of the cap is, Of the 700 MHz band there is 60 MHz, of the 1400 there is 40 MHz and of the 2100 MHz band there is 120 MHz. That's a total of 220. That's under 264. In my calculation it is therefore quite possible that at once those three bands are bought by someone outside, to whom much less demands are made. I think they only need 21% coverage. So I think that is a real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u168	I've been given the information by now. Can a newcomer buy all the permits in this auction? It's possible in theory, but you'd have to have deep pockets. But at the same time, it is very unlikely that it will happen. The 2100 MHz band is currently in use by the current operators. And they need to expand their spectrum in order to be able to cope with the larger data demand. A newcomer has yet to build an entire network. So it is also unlikely that a newcomer will be able to spend at least 900 million on permits, on top of the cost of building an entire network. So theoretically it can, but at the same time you have to ask yourself: is it going to happen? And so if someone buys that whole spectrum, then that will be subject to the commissioning obligation and the coverage requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u169	I'm really sorry about this. In doing so, there is a huge risk to national security. I find it unfortunate that this is apparently not sufficiently thought out. $900 million is worth a lot of money. I told you, in Norway, there was a Ukrainian-American businessman with good ties in the Kremlin. He could bring the 900 million together in a similar case. I think that's a problem. I think you should at least think about how you're gonna deal with it. That's what I'd like to hear from the cabinet. The answer is yes, but there are also a lot of people here who need this. Well, then the price will only be increased. But I think it's just possible someone's gonna get this. And as for cover, here's what I'm gonna do. It's been a few days since I read it, but if I understood correctly, the current providers, so the KPNs of this world, must have a coverage rate of over 90% or 98%; I don't exactly know anymore. But this newcomer is subject to a 21% coverage obligation. He can just pick out the Randstad and put a good cover there. The risk may therefore be limited, but the consequences are so great that I expect the cabinet to have a strategy for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u170	You have to make a difference between the conditions imposed on the permits, such as non-interference, the cover requirement and the commissioning obligation. So if in a theoretical case someone would buy up everything, those terms also apply to this person. That is different from what Mrs Buitenweg is putting forward here, namely national security. Under the telecoms law, licences can be refused if national security is at stake. Furthermore, under the general measure of governance published on 5 December, additional requirements are already being imposed. So I think it's okay to take those two parts apart and not throw them in one pile. National security is something other than the obligation to use it and the requirement to cover it. That national security is governed by that general measure of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u171	I have just heard Mr Bruins on this and I have just heard about it also from Mrs Buitenweg, and I think they are right. A large part of the Chamber thinks that the shoe is a bit wringing here. So I'd be okay if the Cabinet really took a serious look at this. I find the Secretary of State's explanation unconvincing. She wants to take out a theoretical case on the first route by a kind of second route. She says: that will not happen and it is likely that it will be okay. Of course, that is not enough for these big auctions. So why not just rule out the theoretical case by doing what Mr Bruins said, for example? He said: equalise requirements for newcomers and existing parties. Why not just rule it out instead of hoping it doesn't happen and saying it probably won't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u172	Because the spectrum cap is also very well looked at: what do you need to eventually keep competition in the system possible? In addition, we came up with a 40% spectrum cap. For this purpose, the conditions attached to permits shall apply as regards cover requirement and commissioning obligation. Mrs Buitenweg's concerns in the area of national security also have this cabinet. That's why we're sitting here with four rulers. These concerns have led to a task force. That is where we have been looking at the risks that we are ultimately running in this area and how we can counter them. To this end, on 5 December, you received a general measure of governance, on the basis of which we can make these demands. In addition, the Telecom Act in Article 3.18 provides for the possibility of refusing a licence if national security is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u173	I myself have concerns about this, and I think part of Room has them, too. I am waiting for the second deadline, but I do not find this answer from the Secretary of State reassuring. So I think that there will be motions on this, but I would think it would be more elegant if we just thought about this as well. I do see here a kind of loophole that we do not want: one player makes a combination of different bands in a rather improper way and can, unlike the other players, roll out a package that meets the requirements. Not only do you have a problem for national security, but you also have the problem of unfair competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u174	I'm gonna look at that differently and I'm not gonna say again why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u175	I would like to touch on another point; perhaps that will save another motion. I am actually reassured by the State Secretary's reply that, should a provider fake national 5G coverage, he advertises with it, while in some places he has only one block and cannot supply other than consumer protection. After all, this is misleading consumers. I hadn't thought of that, but consumer law is going to solve that. What's still bothering me is the level playing field. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the conditions should be the same for existing suppliers, regardless of whether they choose one or two blocks? Wouldn't you want to create a level playing field within the auction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u176	I think I have just responded to this in response to Mr Weverling and Mrs Van den Berg. For the coverage requirement, existing providers use the 800 and 900 MHz bands. If you impose this only for one block in the 700 MHz band, you actually impose something that is technically unfeasible and you actually get competition from the auction, because then companies can't sign up for it, as far as that happens of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u177	Okay, so there won't be a level playing field when it comes to the conditions for existing providers when they buy one block...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u178	No, what if a newcomer gets one block? Then when you impose the cover obligation, you impose something that can't actually be done and you actually get the competition out of the auction model.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u179	Agreed. I'm just talking about existing providers and creating a level playing field. Whether they buy one or two blocks, you should apply the same conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u180	I think you have the same conditions, but that is in relation to that 800 and 900 MHz band.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u181	It would be good to have more certainty about this, so the same conditions for one or two blocks. Maybe we can get confirmation of that in the second term. Actually, it's too late. I'd like to know before I file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u182	I'm gonna make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u183	On the point raised by Mrs Buitenweg. I'm a little worried about that. If the Secretary of State could explain this discussion a little further, we would be very welcome to do so. The following is still not clear to me. A newcomer buys one block. Within five years, he will be obliged to use it. But in fact he can say: I'm going to sit on my hands for six months or a year and then I'm going to sell the block for 150 million or 200 million. We do not think that this is a fair economy, even with regard to the current players, who have all these obligations. Then someone just bought something to sell it more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u184	If that works, that's the way it is, of course. You can say "I want a billion for it," but the question is, of course, whether you get it. This is really... Ash is burnt peat. Of course, you can come up with all kinds of potential options, but you have to estimate a little bit of what we're talking about. Before you can participate in the auction, you have to prove that you have the finances for that too. That's what it starts with. Then you buy a part, a certain license, a certain block, as Mrs Van den Berg says. In stages, there will be an entry into service obligation. If you don't do that at some point, you have to give it back. You can then call one of the other providers and say: buy? That is Mrs van den Berg's idea, if I have listened to her correctly. But of course that's a game you have with each other. You can ask, but you don't get what you ask. So it is also important to stay within the limits of how things are likely to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u185	This worries me, isn't it? The Secretary of State says first you have to prove that you have the money for it. I think Mrs Buitenweg rightly mentioned a few examples. They may be just a few hundred people in the world, but there are people for whom 75 million is just pocket money. They pull it right out of their back pocket. It does not reassure me, therefore, that there are no more restrictions here. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State agrees with the CDA that it would be undesirable for someone to buy this only for the purpose of selling it and making a big profit on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u186	No, for the reasons I just indicated. When it comes to someone with very deep pockets whose aim is to frustrate our society and overthrow our democracy, you have opportunities not to grant a licence under the Telecom Act. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the heading'safety', as far as we have not yet discussed it. Mrs Buitenweg asked if there was any insight into how data flows run. This also applies, of course, to the fact that, under the Telecom Act, companies have to comply with all kinds of rules to manage risks to the integrity and security of their networks. I think that is what Mrs Buitenweg is concerned about here, such as preventing traffic data and communication content. The Security and Integrity Telecommunications Decision, the general administrative measure that we sent to the Chamber on 5 December, contains additional possibilities. Of course, a provider knows how his data runs, but at some point that can pass on to the network of another provider and that one provider no longer has a view on it. In addition, privacy legislation plays a role here of course. You must also give your own permission to use your data. When it comes to security, national security, public order and that sort of thing, there are quite a number of rules that providers have to abide by. When it comes to privacy, the well-known legislation applies to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u187	I would like to have an extensive letter from the Minister on this. I think it's true that a lot of telecommunications companies don't know what the routing is like at all. Because they've outsourced a lot of knowledge. I am concerned that there is more and more consolidation of only a few large companies, both with regard to the Internet and the architecture of the Internet. At some point, these big companies together can decide how the routing of the data goes. That matters, because the routing doesn't go all the way within Europe, for example, but suddenly makes a detour through America or China, where data can be taken in a different way. In my opinion, a lot of telecommunications companies no longer understand exactly how the data flows are going, because they also want to use all kinds of suppliers. I've read that in several places. So I would very much like to have more information on the transparency of these data flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u188	That goes beyond this debate as far as I am concerned. We'll have to talk about that at another time. Of course, it goes without saying that if you tap your data on Facebook, they end up on a server there, but I don't think that's what Mrs Buitenweg means. She asked another question, namely: is there still a view and control of data? That is an extremely interesting subject, because that is ultimately also about power. Who's in charge of our data? That is why I have also sent a note to the Chamber on dates. There are also considerable discussions within the European Union. But that does, as far as I am concerned, go beyond today's debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u189	Yeah, but it's relevant, because you're consolidating telecom companies now. Indeed, there are all internet protocols when you enter in Facebook, which decide well. That was when the free internet was there, but there is increasing power from a number of large companies that can go around the existing Internet protocols at some point. That's what worries me. That may indeed go beyond the heart of the debate, but that is why I ask the Secretary of State to come back to it so that we can have a substantive debate on it, because I sometimes miss it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u190	In my opinion, there will soon be a general consultation on digitalisation, where the Data Vision is also on the agenda, I say out of my mind. I hope it is true, but Mr Verhoeven should know that. It's a good thing the microphone isn't on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u191	I was just about to invite him to come forward, but now he's running away again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u192	Mr. Chairman. How does our general governance measure of 5 December fit in with other countries' policies? Each country, of course, deals with this in its own way. One country is a little further than the other. The UK has just announced how this is going, but that is no longer in the European Union, as Mr Moorlag rightly pointed out. If you see what other countries are doing, it is broadly in line with the conclusions of the Telecom Council of 3 December and the toolbox published last week. You now know how we have done it in the Netherlands: a task force, a letter from before the summer and finally the general measure of governance that we have sent to you. Then there is the question of whether I think you should do this as much as possible in a European context. Yes. That is also why, together with all my colleagues at the Ministry and at the Permanent Representation in Brussels, I have drawn such a step towards achieving these common conclusions on 3 December. In my view, you have asked almost all of us the question of what this general measure of governance is about. This general measure of governance makes it possible to impose additional security and organisational requirements on the network in general in a ministerial arrangement. That's being worked on right now. In addition, this general measure of governance allows decisions to be taken to identify the suppliers to be trusted in the critical parts of the networks. The Court has, moreover, had a confidential technical briefing on this matter. Do telecom providers know about this? Oh, yeah. They have not only been involved in the whole discussion in the task force, but they are also frequently consulted on what these requirements are in the ministerial regime and what that decision will look like in the near future. I'm not allowed, because of national security, to land with you exactly what those critical parts are. Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Buitenweg have said a few things about this, which I have listened to with some surprise. Transparency is good, and we all strive to do so, but we do have to keep an eye on the fact that you cannot do that where national security is at stake. Are we abandoning this general measure of governance, as it is now? No. You also found in the letter that a structural approach is being worked on. We all know how technology progresses. What's still in hardware is gonna be in software. The Minister of Justice will say a few words about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u193	I find it difficult to follow this, except for the very general reference to national security. I don't understand how, for example, I keep it strictly hypothetically "we don't see Nokia as a trusted company and we don't want them to deliver routers"... What is the use of that information for foreign services? They have that information anyway, don't they? The company Nokia knows that it doesn't sell routers to the Netherlands because apparently the Netherlands doesn't want to? They say that to the Finnish government. The Finnish government will know that the Netherlands does not want routers from Nokia. Surely there is no reason to keep that a secret, certainly not when lists are published a few kilometres away in London, such as: these are the parts that we do not think should fall into certain hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u194	I leave this for Mr Futselaar. We have opted for an approach in the Netherlands in which we have had a task force. On 1 July 2019 you received a letter on this subject. We have announced a number of measures in this regard. It has also been indicated that the critical parts of the network are classified as confidential, as it is called. So I just can't say anything about that. Your Chamber was informed of this in a confidential briefing. Mr Verhoeven asked me just now whether it would be possible for the cabinet to provide regular information on this matter in the near future. I think the Minister of Justice will say a few words about this. It seems to me to be doing the right thing in the appropriate ways. For example, the Chamber is often informed about matters relating to national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u195	If the Secretary of State can't explain why we couldn't publish such a list other than 'I can't do that for the sake of national security and previous agreements', then the only thing left is to force the Chamber to do so by means of a ruling. That is the consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u196	That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u197	I am pretty sure that I did not put the word 'transparency' in my mouth, but 'democratic control'. That's something else around here. Apart from the way all this has been done, I think that the House of Representatives should know how and how often when this power is in force and used by the Cabinet. I understand that you may not be able to publish that in advance and make it completely public, but I can imagine that the Chamber should somehow be able to keep a grip on it. We control the government. And if the government says that it does not want a particular company or supplier in certain parts of the Netherlands, then the House of Representatives must know how it works. That's my point. And I would really like to hear a fairly clear commitment from the cabinet, because I think that is the least thing we should force here as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u198	Appropriate procedures are in place for this. When security is at stake, the Chamber will be informed. The Minister of Justice will say a few words about this immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u199	Perhaps we will have this discussion about the appropriate procedures again in a moment. I'm here looking at the advice in England. That's very extensive. It's a whole bunch of abbreviations. I am not going to read them all out, but it is said that they believe that a high risk vendor, a high risk supplier, should not be allowed. And then there's all sorts of things: in the core of 5G, in the network exposure function, in the unified data repository. Well, a whole list. The English can do that. Why can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u200	Because we didn't choose to. We have opted for a different approach. It is in line with the toolbox and is in line with the conclusions of 3 December. If you look at how other European countries are going, you will see that each country makes a different choice. We have made the choice that I have just explained to you. The Chamber can, of course, ask for information about this. It is right that Mr Verhoeven should say so. How you are informed about safety issues: there are procedures for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u201	"A task force." "European Action Plans'. What would happen if what the Netherlands has agreed in the task force were to be published? I hear "national security," but what's going to happen? We probably have a list like this. Maybe there are a few abbreviations more or less, but there's probably a list like that somewhere in that task force. What happens in terms of national security when that audience becomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u202	That's exactly something I can't speculate on. I just can't say anything about that. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u203	But I do want to get a direction, because otherwise it's an easy thing. Then you can say anything: Oh, national security. I want to get a direction about what people are afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u204	Yeah, and I just can't say anything about that. We have agreed within the Cabinet that what is a critical element is confidential. Then you know, as a Member of Parliament like no other, that I cannot make any announcements about it. I'm not gonna do that. The Minister of Justice will inform you immediately about what this structural approach looks like and what can be agreed with you about informing the Chamber in this area. And that won't sound strange to you, because there are more topics about which you will be informed in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u205	I can justify that we have been informed of this before the summer, but if something is confidential, it does not have to remain confidential forever, unless there is really a good reason for that. We now see that other countries are showing greater openness. I have advocated that as far as possible, as EU countries, this should be aligned. As far as I am concerned, it is also a question of providing information. I have a two-fold question. A, does the Secretary of State share that view? It is a bit weird when there is much more public in one country and much more confidential in another. The second point I want to make is whether the government wants to give a right of choice for keeping it confidential. We can then simply judge by section whether or not this confidentiality is fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u206	We can do this a number of times, but I do not have much to add to what I said earlier. The Minister of Justice will shortly talk about 'the structural approach', as it is called. Because like I said, it won't stop today. Because of all the technical developments, you have to think about what changes are going to be and what that means for the measures we have to take. When it comes to independent states making their own choices, I am glad that we, as the Netherlands, are dealing with our own national security. I'd like to keep it that way. And you know that when it is established at some point that something is confidential, you do not talk about it in public, precisely because of that security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u207	Yes, but it was also not an invitation to speak about it in public. I would, however, appreciate the fact that, at European level, there is a more consistent approach to this, because it gives a rather strange impression if one country deals with this much more confidentially than the other. The second is that when a decision is taken on which suppliers of which equipment are not admitted, I do appreciate the fact that the Chamber is given a right of choice to ensure that confidentiality is guaranteed. That is my question, but perhaps the Minister of Justice will be able to deal with it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u208	That's what I was gonna say. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister of Justice to go along with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u209	Can we go to the radiation block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u210	There's another question I've been asked about data centers. From a certain size they already fall under the bill unwanted control telecommunications. We have discussed the general measure of governance in detail. We also discussed what the critical parts of the network are. Mr. Chairman. We can go to the subject of radiation. Some of you have spoken about this. In particular, Mr Futselaar's question was: "Where are the scientists in this discussion? I only hear the Health Council and the Knowledge Platform Electromagnetic Fields." This includes all kinds of scientists, from RIVM, TNO, GGD, Agency Telecom, ZonMw, Environment Centraal. But if you mean to say, "Let's hear it," I understand. That would be only right, because I think the analysis you have made here is right. This is without prejudice to people's concerns. That is why it is so important to tell each time how these studies are designed, that they are actually measured. It shows that we are tenfold below the standards set internationally. I too have to relate to this. Is there a dialogue with critics? Yes. Soon, I think, this month, we will be talking to people who are worried about radiation. Then I've got another block left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u211	There is another question from Mr Graus on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u212	Yes, and I passed that question through Mr. Moorlag. I've asked for a permanent monitoring. The use is going to increase enormously; it is going to increase cumulatively. Think of the number of antennas and cell towers. We simply want to be informed. We want to be kept constantly informed of the health risks, and I understand that Mr Moorlag wants to support this. These risks can change dramatically within a year. Radiation, for example, can become a danger, because it is so high that it can cause cancer or other things. There are oncologists who say no, but there are also oncologists who say yes. Who are you supposed to believe? We're just simple MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u213	It's controlled, frequent, measured. I do not have the exact frequency ready, but it is actually measured in different places in the Netherlands. Then it turns out that we are tenfold below the standards that have been set internationally and that science in the majority says they are safe. That's what I have to relate to, and that's what I'm doing. Mr. Chairman. Are civil society organisations involved in the knowledge platform? Yes, consumer organisations are involved in this, for example. I would like to point out that we take this issue very seriously. We are looking very closely at what is going on, because after all, I also live in our country. Then there's the other block. I have already responded to the question of how well prepared municipalities are. What are the benefits of 5G? I have already responded to that. I also addressed the question of how municipalities can be involved in rolling out the frequencies in the Netherlands. I think I have answered all the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u214	Fine. Then I'm very curious to know who I can give the floor to now. That's the Minister of Justice and Security. He's gonna swallow something. If he has his mouth empty, I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr. Chairman. On such an important subject as the intersection, the intersection, high-quality technology and national security, this minister must always swallow something away; it is no different. Thanks, by the way, to the messengers, who always take such good care of us in trade-K. Mr. Chairman. In view of the timing and importance of going outside this Chamber among the people, I will not make a detailed introduction, but I will go straight ahead to the questions that concern my area. These questions are about the cross-sectoral programme, the comparison with the UK, the confidentiality and more generally I would like to get started on cybersecurity in the departments. I would also like to begin with the consideration that, as your Chamber knows, I will come forward with my policy response to the report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy in a month's time. Last summer, he pointed out that sustainable, excuse me, digital disruption, which is sometimes sustainable and sometimes not, is something that will happen in this society, one or more times, that we need to prepare ourselves for it and that we need to arm ourselves against it as much as possible. As I have already indicated, I will also include in this policy response the evaluation of the problems surrounding the Citrix servers from a few weeks ago. As far as I am concerned, as Minister of Justice and Security, I will also discuss in a more general sense what needs to be done in terms of further strengthening our cybersecurity. I would have liked to have said that at the beginning, in order to keep the expectations for this debate somewhat contained. I would also like to stress that, following the policy response, I would like to start the debate with your Chamber on the subject of cybersecurity; some of your Members already know this, because we have already said this to each other in November. Today's debate, which, of course, has major, important economic implications, is about the great importance of cyber security in the context of our national security. Everything is digitally connected everywhere, so it can affect our day-to-day operations, but also bigger things like national security. Mr. Chairman. Cyber security is a real priority for me. Therefore, under my coordination in April 2018, the first Dutch Cybersecurity Agenda was published. In response to Mr Weverling and Mr Moorlag's question on this subject, these ambitions are indeed being borne. These are carried out and carried out by all departments. In the context of the problems surrounding the Citrix servers, you have also noticed that the CIO is called the chief information officer, which in good Dutch version of the Empire, which belongs to the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, has a very important role to play in ensuring digital security, as the National Cyber Security Centre has pointed out to me, also in the departments. Again, you saw that happening in the case of the Citrix servers. On the basis of the advice and initiatives of the National Cyber Security Centre, the NCSC, and the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security, the CIO Empire establishes the Baseline Information Security Government. I will go into this in more detail, once again, when I come, in some time, within two months, with the cabinet response to the report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy entitled 'Preparing for digital disruption'. Mr. Chairman. That is the point of the cross-sectoral training programme. I think it is very important that this has been put forward here, in this case by Mr Weverling. It is very important that we continue working on scenarios, including the failure of ICT systems, in order to see what happens next. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is working on a broad rehearsal agenda. That practice on cyber security is all part of it. As we practice in the world around us, we also need to do exercises in the digital world. Cross-sectoral practice is carried out. This year, ISIDOOR 2020 will be held in June, and that is yet another large-scale cross-sectoral exercise. A large number of parties of the government and vital providers will participate in this. That exercise is now organized for the third time. Previous exercises were in 2015 and 2017. In the coming years, we will continue to organise this large-scale exercise. We will, of course, also look at the findings of that exercise to see to what extent other exercises might still be desirable. I will continue to inform you about this, but also about the progress of the Dutch Cybersecurity Agenda. This is certainly true of the forthcoming cross-sectoral exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u216	Thank you for the good explanation. "Structureal" I actually find every year or every year. Previous exercises were in 2015 and 2017, so I'm actually trying to figure out how the minister sees "structurally."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u217	Structurally, at least that's already in the regularity that's in there right now. As I said just now, I think that, if the ISIDOR 2020 was held in June, we need to see whether we believe that this'structural' should be accelerated or delayed. Maybe there should be some part-exercise. In any case, this is a very large whole, with almost everything and everyone at the bar. Once again, I will of course return to your Chamber after that exercise, with information on how it went. Then we could also see if we think that rhythm should be different, or that things might have to be deployed differently or should be cut up. I will come forward with a preliminary evaluation as soon as possible after that exercise has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u218	Of course I don't want to tie the cat too much to the bacon, but since 2017 there have been some nasty incidents in this area. We're holding this year's exercise in June. I am therefore very much in favour of doing so, at least on this structural aspect, rather more often than every three years. That's what I'm talking about, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u219	This dependence on the digital world is certainly an urgent fact. That sounds a bit strange, because that is of course already the case in recent years. And it's getting more and more. It is, in any case, an urgent matter that we need to deal with. Once again, I also say to Mr Weverling that as soon as possible, I will give an initial evaluation of that exercise. Then we also need to examine with each other whether the frequency of today is adequate. That's one. The second is that we should look at whether we should perhaps sit more on certain partial exercises in future. But I think it's too early to say that now. Let's run ISIDOR 2020 first. Mr. Chairman. There was also a question from Mrs van den Berg and Mrs Buitenweg about the situation in the United Kingdom. They asked for a comparison with the approach as it is there. The UK's approach includes much more the choice of geographical demarcation. We have come to the measures previously shared with you on the basis of our own risk analysis. On the basis of the specific points of risk analysis, the Netherlands has come to an approach which may be somewhat different in a number of respects. You refer in your question to the motion on the reinforced approach to 'vital'. We support this reinforced approach. In addition to the telecoms sector, other services and processes are concerned about threats posed by state actors. So it is really important to have a good understanding of how the Dutch vital infrastructure develops technically and organizationally. Only in this way can we anticipate these developments in time, both for the threat and for technological developments. As indicated in the National Security Strategy, the Cabinet will therefore develop, in cooperation with those parties, a reinforced approach to protecting the vital infrastructure. I shall go into more detail in the policy response letter. As far as the United Kingdom is concerned, I would point out that the Netherlands is geographically another country. The telecommunications networks are also different in that respect. That is also different for some countries, so to speak. But the measures we are about to implement provide an adequate response to the threat. We have put a number of things into practice in the Netherlands quite clearly on the basis of the threats. I'll get back to you in a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u220	It's so much about procedures and there's so much uncertainty, when I think: we're just talking about a number of substantive issues. I do not think it is sufficiently discussed in terms of content. We have the British advice here. I did have a number of questions about that. The British call them exactly different parts. The British also say, for example, that we do not want to have the untrusted suppliers near, for example, the government's operation. And we don't want them to be in the RAN network for more than 35%. Those are very concrete plans from the British. I thought they all looked great. So the question is: how does the Minister see these three plans in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u221	I do indeed have to go a little further on the consideration of the critical parts. What products and services are excluded? That was also raised by Mr Bruins. The question was: if you do that on the basis of that threat, how are we supposed to see it? Here's what I'm gonna say. In the Netherlands we have this task force with members of all concerned government parties and intelligence services, led by the NCTV. It has seen all developments in the context of the threat in a coherent way and has come to an approach that is not so much geographical as that chosen in the United Kingdom. I have just explained very specifically why this is so, and I have indicated the differences in the way the country is built up, the way the networks are put together. I have also indicated that in the Netherlands the task force takes as its starting point the otherwise dynamic aspect of the threats. Because those threats can change. Technological developments may also lead to the re-execution of risk analysis and the re-formulation of threats, which has also been discussed in the inter-parliamentary debate during the first term. That is a different choice from that made in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u222	I was quietly hoping that we could finish this debate before dinner break, but the Minister's answers will allow us to have dinner a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u223	I'm almost there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u224	If it's short and pointy, Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u225	I think a lot of things are getting mixed up right now. For example, I had a question about the geographical locations. The answer is that the United Kingdom is geographically different. Let me tell you something: I'm originally blonde, but I've already realized it's different. The British say: around a parliament we do not want Huawei in the RAN, the radio antenna network. My question is whether the Minister agrees. Then there's a lot of fuss about us choosing other things through the task force, increasing technology and having to look at it again later. But I want to know now if the Minister thinks it's logical that we have a non-reliable supplier in the radio antenna network around this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u226	I think that's a little jumping to conclusions. Do I think it makes sense that we have an untrustworthy supplier in the antenna network around this building?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u227	Is that what's agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u228	The cabinet's approach is to look at the current, most pregnant threat. On the basis of that threat, the critical components have also been identified. These may vary by provider because of the differences between networks. If you do that, you're going to take measures that will provide an adequate response to the threat you see. If the United Kingdom takes the decision, and in any case feels that certain things should not be done, it is on the basis of a different approach to the threat. Period. I don't want to be too detailed, because we have to go to dinner, but that's just the answer. That is also very concrete. And I'm the last person who's gonna say anything about the color of the hair to other people, so I'm not gonna do that either. However, I think it is quite clear that the task force is right to adopt an approach where we are looking at concrete threats. I should like to recall why some of these things are only given confidentially for information purposes. That could develop. I told you that's a dynamic image because the technology is changing or because there are other threat developments. On this basis, it is possible to assess the extent to which certain things should be allowed. In this sense, this may be different from the United Kingdom's approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u229	I understand that we are about to discuss why something is now national security. I think there are quite a lot of people who now, after all these discussions over the last few months, want to know what the Netherlands is deciding. Apparently, it all has to be kept secret. Apparently, we're gonna hear a good argument for that. GroenLinks would be in favour of it as far as we can judge it, because for that we must of course also receive information that you do not allow for that radio antenna network Huawei in areas where there is critical infrastructure. This is around Schiphol, here in the heart of democracy and at the port of Rotterdam. I want to hear a good argument from the Minister why he doesn't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u230	It is not a question of whether I think you might have a good idea on the basis of the United Kingdom. The task force, which includes all the government parties involved and the intelligence service under the leadership of the NCTV, says: we are taking action on the basis of technological developments on the one hand and the threat analysis on the other. Those measures shall be applied in the review at 5G.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u231	I have just defended that we may be given confidential information on what measures are being taken and that these measures will not be made public here. However, following the motion tabled last year and adopted, I would very much like to know whether additional measures are being taken in the Netherlands for certain regions. The Minister does not need to share with me what measures these are, but I would like to know whether regions have indeed been appointed where additional measures apply. Mrs Buitenweg has mentioned a number of examples of regions and I have also mentioned examples such as the Lower House, Brainport and the ports. Secondly, I would like to know whether it is generally ensured that the Radio Access Network is not dependent on a single supplier, but that there really is a diversity of suppliers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u232	I arrived at the point of willingness to further confidential explanations to your Chamber. I would also like to make it quite clear that the confidential explanation is related on the one hand to the company confidentiality that applies to the providers. On the other hand, I believe that we are entirely sensitive to evil actors in the game if we openly state where the threats and/or possible vulnerabilities lie. Not only do I think that, but that was, of course, also the conclusion of the task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u233	I have just indicated that I understand that we are being kept confidential and that everything is not publicly shared here. I would like to ask the following two questions: has specific regions been looked at separately? We have mentioned a few examples. Secondly, I ask whether diversity is enforced for the Radio Access Network, so that it does not depend on one supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u234	I say once again that all the measures we have taken are adequate, regardless of the region. There may be a further confidential briefing on how that relates exactly and how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u235	I thought I'd wait for the minister to finish. But I just realized he's almost done, so I'm asking my question. I have a question about the STUDY. It's using 3.5 GHz frequencies now. What frequency is the STUD in your vision, if this frequency is auctioned, as is now on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u236	I say again that I am not going to go into details here that I am willing to share in another confidential briefing. You will hear me say that on more points. Last time, there was plenty of room for all the political groups to participate in it, which will now be there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u237	Does the Minister agree with me that the 5G reception station located in North Holland with which STUDY is currently listening to the Middle East should move to Friesland if these frequencies are auctioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u238	I think the question about the security service is for the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u239	All right, let's try it again in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u240	Did the Minister of Justice and Security come to an end?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u241	I'm gonna check 'cause I had something else. Mr Verhoeven, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Futselaar had asked questions about the need for further information from the Chamber. It just came up somewhat fragmentary, perhaps because we were in an interruption, but that insight into vulnerabilities and business confidentiality by provider mean that you can't explain a number of things in this kind of business here in public. That's what national security is all about. That is why there has been a confidential briefing earlier and that is why one of these should come as far as I am concerned. I do think that is what I began by saying that we should be able to provide complete information. I would stress that the telecom companies themselves have been involved in the whole process. They are fully informed about what the task force sees as risks and what the critical elements are. They are also fully involved in structural cooperation and in the process, because of course it is also important to keep these telecom networks safe in the future. Then I come back to what really is one of the starting points, namely continuous review, I mentioned the dynamic review, based on technical developments, to see if the threat analysis is still very sharp and on that basis the safety assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u242	I listen to this with understanding and I understand that certain matters are of a confidential nature in relation to national security. We get that a lot. But I am concerned about the trend towards national security or the national security doctrine that I am increasingly hearing about intricate issues on which the Chamber wants to control the government. That task force shouldn't be a black box, because that's what it's starting to look like. I am not a suspicious person, but it is true that this task force, based on national security, which is confidential, can take far-reaching decisions without informing the Chamber. I understand now that the Minister says he would like to inform the Chamber about this, but by means of confidential technical briefings. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u243	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u244	Okay. This means that the House of Representatives will then observe how the power that is given to the cabinet is being used and that we should look at it on the basis of whether we believe that democratic control is sufficient and whether we in the Chamber believe that this is desirable. But we cannot have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u245	You can have a debate on this, but we have a fact that I have explained. On the one hand, I'm dealing with everything that has to do with vulnerabilities in the systems. I do not need to explain that to Mr Verhoeven. On the other hand, I am also dealing with those providers, who, precisely in order to make these systems as strong as possible, are sitting with their own confidential business information. Those are two interests. The one interest, that of confidential business information, lies on the part of the providers but also comes to us indirectly. The other interest, that of these vulnerabilities, lies with both providers and with the public authorities. That must really be of impenetrable material, with the right democratic reservation that your Chamber can take note of that in confidence. If, after this confidential technical briefing, the Members of Parliament who do so say: we think everything is clear that the Dutch interest or the national security interest is not well served by this, then you can simply state that with each other without having to reveal these vulnerabilities directly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u246	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I would be pleased if the cabinet could inform the Chamber in writing of what such a technical briefing and democratic accountability would look like. Then I do not need to make a motion, because I think this is a clear commitment. Finally, I would like to stress, Mr President, that this is not a question, but it is an important point to me that this task force should not take all kinds of decisions, no matter how well-founded it may be and no matter how much in the interests of national security, without the House of Representatives being able to oversee them. I want to have said that seriously. The House of Representatives is controlling the government and the government makes decisions here, whether or not through a task force with all kinds of parties, but the House of Representatives should be able to oversee this. I really hope that the technical briefings or other forms of information will be organized accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u247	I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you. There is a dilemma here between democratic openness and, in the context of being able to continue and maintain that democracy, also a confidentiality. There's a dilemma. We are going for you, I think that the group specialists are the ones we are seeing here who set up the technical briefing as it was before, this summer. As far as I am concerned, that should enable us to debate this properly, while maintaining the confidentiality of what has been seen by the Chamber. That's one. Then two. If you find that freedom you have, of course, what is called, you are controlling that I have not been able to give you any confidential insight into that technical briefing, then you can call me to order on it until I do. Otherwise, you can even say to me: you can only do a minister who offers that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u248	Then Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to know, however, at what time, as far as I am concerned, this is a short-term technical briefing which may be confidential. I would also like the Justice and Security spokesperson on behalf of my group, for example, to be present, not only as spokesman for Economic Affairs and Climate. We have often experienced this in the Finance Committee, because you are being briefed, but you should not even share it with your colleagues in the political groups. Yeah, that's not gonna do me any good. I would like to have a good discussion on this, so I want to have that commitment. And on what time? That is always important: in what period is it going to happen? In fact, the debate is already ending for me, because it is all too woolly and too foggy. I can't do anything with this. I can't give good advice to my group right now, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u250	Returning for a while. We did that last summer. I will take the idea of whether there is any possibility of getting a little more people to look at it, but I am saying in advance that I am actually a little reluctant about that. Mr Graus rightly says that he cannot share it with his group colleague, the confidentiality of the technical briefing. But yes, otherwise we should say we're just going to do it in this room. I do insist that we are talking here, precisely in the context of this debate, about the trusted partners and those who may not be fully trusted. National security requires us to carry out a careful process in this area, and that is what I really need to stress to Mr Graus that we do not put all our matters on the table, which means that evil parties can undermine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u251	For everything the Minister says now, I have all the understanding and appreciation, especially as a former confidential member of the De Wit Committee. I know exactly how it's going. A Member of Parliament for Justice and Security, a Justice and Security spokesperson, isn't there someone who took the oath? We all had to do that, didn't we? We are MPs and then it doesn't matter that you can at least listen with two pairs of ears and also from two disciplines? I do think it is important that there should be someone from the Justice and Security Department. It's just a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u252	Then Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u253	I'm already having visions of MPs and investigative journalists climbing into antenna masts to see what equipment is in it. I appreciate the Minister's saying he's willing to write, but I do need two things. First of all, I believe that it is necessary to explain how the risk assessment and also the perception of the threat risk relates to the views of relevant other partners. I am referring in particular to EU countries. And the second is what the right of choice is not to make measures public. I think it is a good thing that, for such a briefing, this is shared confidentially with the Chamber in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u254	Of course, I can see to what extent this can be shared in writing with the Chamber. But there's a bit of a "M.C. Escher effect" where you end up in a circle. After all, it is about what I want to share in that confidential briefing with your Members of Parliament, namely that explanation of why the threat analysis is as it is, and what exactly are the considerations that resulted from it. That is at the heart of confidentiality. I can be clear about the EU. You can see in the publicity that we are all struggling with this same problem to a certain extent and in a certain way. I also discuss this with my colleagues at EU level. And I'm almost afraid to say that this struggle may also be geographically determined. Countries come to very different final considerations. And there are also countries that are still no further on in their decision-making. But I would like to say out loud once again that the Chamber can be assured that I will remain in conversation with the EU colleagues for my part. And so is the Secretary of State, but he has to report it himself. This is, of course, a serious decision, so to speak. Finally, I would urge Mr Moorlag, as well as the other 149 Members of Parliament, not to climb into aerials, because I do not know what accidents could result from this. So we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u255	I take that to heart, Mr President. If we are to be informed confidentially, we must be able to assess how the measures, as well as the measures, relate to what other European countries are doing. That is what matters to me, and that is what matters to me. It also has budgetary consequences, because this is not a small beer. In my view, it is also important that there should not be too much divergence in Europe, also because of its interrelation with trade interests. We simply see pressure being exerted on countries to take certain measures. Before we know it, we'll be played against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u256	So I understand now that the Chamber is being kept confidential. But what about companies? Of course, trust is also very important for companies. This applies to trust from investors, but also to trust from customers. Suppose, companies are given an indication at some point to take certain measures, they are taking those measures, but there is still Huawei equipment, for example. Will companies then be allowed to communicate about the measures they had to take and have taken to maintain confidence? Or are they not allowed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u257	That's a very interesting question. Let me start with this. As I said, the telecom providers themselves have been taken into account confidentially in this whole process. So they know exactly how their business should be if they want to qualify as a provider. There can't be a discussion about that. This means that end-users will eventually operate in the same range, because those telecom providers already do so themselves. And for the rest, of course, the following applies. If in the near future certain problems arise in networks that can be traced back to hacks, for example, then the same thing we saw last year at VPN Pulse, and what we saw at Citrix at the end of last year and early this year. The warnings issued and the patches, the solutions recommended, must then be followed. This is particularly true when a so-called high/high warning is issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u258	But let me get this straight. A company gets a clue to do certain things. The company does that and says: I don't have to do the rest, because I didn't get a clue. Can a company disclose that to its investors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u259	I think we should see it this way. The 5G network providers will have to comply with the requirements set out. Let's start with that. If they were to be awarded part or part of that network, they would have to comply with the requirements. As a result, an end user will always be within the framework indicated by the task force, because this has been included in his specifications or his description by their telecom provider in the context of the entire procurement process; this is what will be met. So that's not so much where I see the point. That's one. Two. In the future, this is what the WRR warns about and what we see with such a Citrix server........................................................................................................................................... From the NCSC and, as far as the government is concerned, through the CIO of the Empire, a solution is put forward in the field of software, the so-called patch. You'll have to follow it at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u260	But here's what I'm gonna conclude. The end user can be confident that at least all measures have been taken. Otherwise, the company should not have participated in 5G. But an investor... It may also be that a company does more than was strictly necessary. I understand that the shareholders or the investors aren't allowed to know about the designation of the Empire to such a company?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u261	I come now to an area that I am not in, namely the position of shareholders and the like. The telecom companies are the providers in this story. On the basis of confidentiality, they will be taken into account throughout this process. You should, because otherwise you don't know what you're bidding for. I do not see very well what I have to do with investors in the context of national security. At least they don't matter to me. I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u262	Very good. Who can I give the floor to now? Don't fight. We used to have Who of the Three; that worked the same way. I call the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u263	Mr. Chairman. I was asked only one question. I am not so much here as Minister of Defence as Minister of Intelligence and Security. Maybe it's good to say that. So I'm here for both the STUDY and the AIVD. So I was asked only one question, and that is Mrs Buitenweg's question about Burum. I will also take Mr Baudet's question. How's Burum? What's the matter? In that sense, Mr Baudet's question was not entirely correct. In order to enable the national roll-out of 5G in the 3.5 GHz band, and to do justice to the C-band satellite interception capacity, an international solution to the so-called coexistence problem has been sought: they cannot exist side by side, these two things. That's the problem. They can't go together. As reported to your Chamber, I personally have done so myself in an earlier debate with the Secretary of State of EZK in the past period, which has shown that a solution within the framework of international cooperation is, in principle, feasible. All efforts are aimed at achieving this international solution in good time, i.e. by September 2022.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This will make the 300-band available for mobile communications from 1 September 2022. That's 5G. The stake is therefore to hold the auction at the beginning of 2022. In the meantime, all preparations have begun. As has also been reported to you, it is currently being considered whether a bridging measure is necessary and useful for a short period of time, if the international solution cannot be achieved in time, also considering the impact of the roll-out of 5G in the 3.5-band in Germany. As a result, interference with the satellite interception in Burum may also occur. That is, by the way, South-West Friesland, I say in the direction of Mr Baudet. This will be clarified by 1 March 2022 at the latest. We're really trying to get that done as soon as possible. In the context of intelligence services and confidentiality, I cannot comment on the precise interpretation of the international solution. That is the complicated thing, as you know, Mr President. The Court will be further informed by the appropriate channels. That's what the CIVD's for. This is also subject to parliamentary control. In this case, you will be informed about the progress. Mrs Buitenweg asked about the legal framework. The Wiv 2017, the Intelligence and Security Services Act, simply applies. There are guarantees in that. Those safeguards are of course also applicable if a solution is found elsewhere, including the supervision, which is the CTIVD in this case. That all applies. As you know, parliamentary control runs through the CIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u264	Mr Baudet was on the microphone earlier, but I would like to give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg, because she was addressed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u265	I asked not so much what we could do with it as it is regulated in the Wiv, but how it is governed by treaty that those dishes are now somewhere else and what the jurisdiction is. If that dish is in another country, the jurisdiction over it would seem to me. If that is not the case, how is it governed by treaty? That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u266	I cannot say anything about this either. Interception is governed by our own Wiv legislation and our own supervisory regime. That's all I can say right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u267	Let me get this straight. The STlVD thus goes off the 3.5 Ghz network. This is where an international network comes in, and that is where we will be in March or in that period...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u268	You will not be informed about this in public. You were already informed. So it's not about something just being moved. You said something had to be moved to Friesland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u269	No, from Friesland. Then maybe I said it wrong. It's in Friesland now, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u270	Sure. In Burum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u271	Where is it supposed to go if it clashes with the 5G network there? If it goes somewhere else, to North Holland or elsewhere, then it collides there again. Is it going abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u272	No. So it doesn't go together. You were simply informed of this in writing. Those two things can't go hand in hand. In the roll-out of 5G, Germany may also have a disturbance. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u273	That's exactly why I'm asking my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u274	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u275	I have replied that only an international solution is possible. A solution will therefore have to be found somewhere in another country. Parliamentary control of this is carried out through the CIVD. I can't say anything else about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u276	If the Minister can't say anything about it, then there's not much to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u277	She's gonna stop saying nothing now, too, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u278	Exactly. Yes. I can't say anything again, but I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u279	You are always welcome here in the Chamber to say nothing. I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg asked what measures are being taken to prevent unwanted technology transfer. There are a number of measures, which the Chamber has also been informed about, including by the Secretary of State sitting next to me. It's about the investment test, which was also sent to the Chamber. In addition, the Chamber has been informed about the measures announced by the colleague of OCW and myself to combat unwanted knowledge transfer through universities, students and PhD students. Thirdly, there is the existing package of measures enabling export control and mandatory for arms and dual-use goods, which can be deployed both military and non-military, a regime primarily under the responsibility of BuHa-OS' colleague. Then Mr Verhoeven asked whether the debate on 5G does not illustrate that we as the Netherlands and as Europe should be consciously dealing with our dependencies. That is a justified debate, which is, of course, much wider than the 5G debate. I assume that Mr Verhoeven is making the factual observation with me that the Netherlands and Europe, partly for physical reasons, because some substances do not occur at all here, or because of the climate, can never be completely self-sufficient, but it is good to ask whether we are strategically vulnerable because of dependencies. This is also happening in a number of areas, preferably at European level. I very much agree with Mr Verhoeven that these issues should preferably be dealt with at European level. An important part of the China strategy, which the Court has previously received, also referred to the desirability of European cooperation. Mr Keijzer already mentioned the way in which the decision-making and regulation around 5G was dealt with at European level. A toolbox was presented in January. This also applies in other areas. In the field of energy security, for example, there are also European agreements on how mutual supplies take place in emergency situations. In the European Councils I am taking part in, the Foreign Affairs Council and the General Affairs Council, we are talking regularly about the demand for dependencies, also specifically towards China. I have also warmly welcomed the clear and often sharp China strategy with which the European Commission came out. I will also continue to call on the European Commission to make agreements in line with that European China strategy, preferably in a coordinated European context. That is often a difficult task. Mr Verhoeven, of course, knows that a number of countries within the European Union have chosen to participate in specific partnerships with China, or in the famous Belt and Road Initiative, to which a number of EU countries have explicitly joined, or in the "16+1" format, as it is called, where "1" is China and "16" is a number of European countries. This is an independent country, but both in direct contact with these countries and in the European consultations, I always advocate that these strategic dependencies should not arise together. A number of these countries themselves already have mixed experiences with these relations, so there is also more hearing for that. In short and well, I agree with Mr Verhoeven that relations with China should be as coordinated as possible at European level in many areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u281	Was that your contribution, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u282	Well, these questions were asked to me. But I understand there's another question coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u283	Yes, but then I know you're done at least from your side. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u284	The Minister is right to point out the investment test. At my request, we will soon have a VSO about this and about export control and, for example, dual-use goods. He also says that in Europe there is a joint increase against China, which is quite justified in order to reduce dependence in general. At my request, Minister Bruins, for example, is involved in the production of generic medicines, which are now 75% from China and India. We had specifically asked a question about universities and knowledge institutions in the Netherlands. The Minister could do something right there. My colleague Harry van der Molen, who is on the educational dossier, has told me that there is no intervention there and that this is left to the universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u286	Of course, I have great respect for your colleague Harry van der Molen. The Chamber has received from my colleague from OCW and myself a letter stating how we deal with the leaking of sensitive knowledge that may, for example, be related to rocket technology to countries where we consider this undesirable. The letter specifically mentioned North Korea and Iran, but it could also be other countries. Of course, that letter also states that this is in consultation with the universities. I think that Mrs Van den Berg, or Mr Van der Molen, if he were here, would be very critical of me if that were not to take place in consultation with the universities. So that makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u287	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u288	In consultation. Of course, we are not talking about imposing, but we are talking about the direction of the government vis-à-vis universities and other knowledge institutions in the Netherlands, which also often receive public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u289	That direction is taking place. I do have a long experience and a good experience with the CDA: I am sure that the CDA would pull me and my colleague from OCW on the table if we unilaterally imposed measures on universities without consultation. And I'd agree with them on that, too, pulling over the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u290	In a box-K filled with CDAs, you can't say anything else, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u291	No, no. They're all looking at me very critically, too. But they nod in agreement. Right? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u292	Everyone agrees with you. So much for the government's first term. I'll suspend for three and a half minutes and then we'll continue with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u293	I call the Chamber for the second term. Mr. Bruins?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u294	Mr President, we have a feeling here in the Chamber that we still need one answer in the first term of the Secretary of State for EZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u295	But the first deadline has been completed. Anyway, can you indicate what it was about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u296	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This is also why I immediately ran to the interrupting microphone, because in the first period we would have a further explanation of Mrs Buitenweg's question about the whole frequency structure and the caps that are on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u297	Mr. Chairman, you were really out in a second to relax plumbing, but it's true what my colleague says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u298	If even you say it, it's true. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for dessert of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u299	What's in a word, Chairman? We've been talking. I think this concerns the debate I had with Mrs Buitenweg on the question: what if someone buys the whole spectrum? Of course, you can have all kinds of variants on it every time, but what if one person buys the whole spectrum with bad intentions? That's when I reported this. It is completely theoretical, because of course you get an auction process, in which there is bid, bid, bid. So it would be the expectation that you would be far above the minimum amount. That someone must then set up a complete network. That also costs an awful lot of money. And all of that would be someone with bad intentions. If such a person has that entire network and such deep pockets, then he is subject to all the requirements that we are going to attach to the permit. And if we then come to the conclusion that someone has wrong intentions, we can refuse the licence under the Telecom Act. So I can't add much more to that. The risk is that there will now be all kinds of technical questions, to which I should also remain guilty. But then I think it would be better to have a written round with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u300	I hear Mr Verhoeven saying "fine." Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u301	Yeah, I think that's useful. Look, the Netherlands has a land area of over 35,000 km. I understand that the requirement to cover a newcomer is such that after five years you have a requirement of 7,512 km. That is much more limited. I think it is important to clarify this much more clearly, even if it is a hypothetical case. We do want to be able to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u302	But the Secretary of State's proposal is therefore to do a written questioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u303	Let us do that, Mr President, before I try to go into this again, because then there will be a follow-up question and we will only make things more complicated, and that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u304	There's going to be a written questioning. Then all Members can simply submit questions. Then there'll just be a deadline, and then you'll get an answer. That is, of course, through the committee. Very good. I am still a little hesitant to look into the Chamber, but now we are really done with the first term. I would like to give the floor to Mr Weverling of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Scientific Council for Government Policy has warned of "digital disruption" as a result of the failure of crucial digital systems and telecom networks on which the Netherlands is increasingly dependent;]] [[whereas the Netherlands should be resilient in the event that such a scenario takes place and that this resilience can be enhanced by the regular practice of such scenarios, but that this is not happening in a structural manner;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a structural stress test and exercise programme in which the government and vital sectors cross-sectorally apply scenarios of digital disruption in order to increase resilience to this, and to inform the Court annually about these cyber exercises,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European risk analysis established that the use of equipment from non-reliable suppliers in the Radio Access Network presents "high" risks to the integrity of the telecom network and users' privacy, and that this risk is likely to increase in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the scope of the Security and Integrity Telecommunications Decision to antennas in the Radio Access Network,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the military part of the ground-satellite station in Burum will be moved in the short term in order to allow the deployment of 5G also in the North of the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the remaining ground satellites in Burum play an important role in air and maritime communications and that ensuring these functionalities is essential in view of their societal importance;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with the parties concerned to find a solution enabling the deployment of 5G in the North of the Netherlands without causing interruption of emergency, emergency and security traffic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-496]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-497]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-498]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In any case, we want to ensure that there is not too much dependence on one supplier, including in the non-critical part. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU Member States and the European Commission have adopted a toolbox of mitigation measures;]] [[noting that the Dutch structural adaptive risk approach now applies only to critical components;]] [[Whereas the nature of the threat as well as the technology used is variable;]] [[Whereas diversification of providers is also mentioned in the EU toolbox;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the structural approach to be adaptive in determining what is critical and non-critical and to involve diversification of providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-499]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u307	We have indicated that we are very concerned about the possibility of someone buying one block for their own gain and out of malice. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to organise the auction in such a way that the licence is withdrawn if it is not bought in good faith for its own use, but for example was bought for speculation to sell for a lot of money to another person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-500]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure you didn't miss the fact that I thought it was an extremely frustrating debate. It's not that I can't understand that some things have to be kept confidential. I'm also in the AIVD and such things sometimes, but I don't think it's clear now why anything is confidential, because it's actually still confidential. I do not think that is a good story, not towards the representative of the people, not towards the companies and not towards the people. So I'm really sorry about that. I'll go to those confidential briefings, but I can say that I'm going there to assess whether I think it's justified that matters are confidential. I'd like it to be discussed there. So I'm not gonna accept it yet. I have one more question. I have heard that companies themselves are not really able to communicate about the things that have been imposed on them, but do new companies that are going to participate in the auction, so companies that are not yet there, have access to that information, so that they know who can or cannot deliver which parts? I'd like some clarification. Finally, I also have a motion on the RAN, the Radio Access Network. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas risks related to espionage and sabotage via the 5G network may have a significant impact on national security;]] [[Whereas the EU risk assessment states that the Radio Access Network should be classified as "high risk';]] [[calls on the Government to require telecom providers to use only trusted suppliers in the Radio Access Network, at least in geographical areas with vital infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-501]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions from my hand, but I would like to dwell on the issue of confidentiality. Where the British now make public who they believe are untrusted providers and which parts should or should not be allowed access, the Netherlands chooses not to do so at all. I've been wondering why that bothers me so much. The Minister says that it is another country and we have made a different assessment. That's actually the government's statement. But in all countries around us, the discussion about 5G and possible Chinese providers is not only about national security, but also about technology struggles, about economic interests, about geopolitical interests. In Germany, the case may well be settled by the interests of the German car industry or by the US ambassador's argument. The Dutch cannot now see what consideration we have made, because the outcome of that consideration is completely protected from everyone under the motto of national security, and can only be seen for MPs on the basis of confidentiality. I will also go to those briefings, but I wonder what options we still have if we do think that other considerations have been made. Then how can you make that public? Mr. Chairman. That's a dilemma. I'm gonna have to chew on that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u310	Good luck with that. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u311	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The last answer, which you reopened the debate for, at least the first deadline for reopening, was not to my satisfaction, so I have one motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the use of the 5G frequencies won by auction is subject to permit conditions, including in terms of offering a nationwide coverage network and achieving a minimum Internet speed to be offered, as explicitly set out in the Note Mobile Communication;]] [[Whereas under the proposed auction regulations those permit conditions would not apply to the 700 MHz band as only one block of that spectrum is acquired by a participant already holding 800 and 900 MHz frequencies;]] [[calls on the Government to impose equal licensing conditions for each of those blocks, irrespective of the number of blocks in the 700 MHz band acquired by a party already in possession of spectrum, with regard to coverage and minimum speed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-502]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u312	Thank you. Mr Graus from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've asked for hard guarantees that I didn't get. I've also asked for percentages. What percentage of security is guaranteed when it comes to security, espionage and so on? I'm fine right now. I don't have anything I can put back to the group. There's going to be a confidential briefing. I will be there, of course. But, yeah, we're not allowed to share that, so it's often not really helpful. That's very difficult. I would like to ask one more question, because there can be an answer to that. I asked for that in the first period. How are the United States going to solve this? And countries that don't want to do business with the Chinese, like Japan and Australia, which I mentioned, but also Orange France? We must be able to learn from this or cooperate with it. Perhaps in some areas they are further or have better ideas than we have. It's always like that when you sit down with each other. Everyone always thinks he's the best, but sometimes it can help to share something. I just wanted to know how that went and if there were any contacts with the counterparts there. Something can be said about that, because that is not a state secret. I'd like to know. Once again, I would have liked to have the guarantees about the percentage of security and reliability, even when it comes to espionage, so that I have covered myself if there is ever a parliamentary survey. Then I've done everything I can. Because if I don't get a hundred percent guarantee, then perhaps I should advise my group not to do it, while we are in favour of a quick roll-out of 5G, preferably not with the Chinese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u314	Thank you. Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u315	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to measures, effectiveness and proportionality, we can look at them in isolation here in the Netherlands, but I think that we should also coordinate them in Europe. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to assess risks and to adopt appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure the safety and integrity of the 5G network c.a. to ensure that they are based primarily on information, insights and views of the countries working with them at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-503]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u316	Mr. Chairman. The type of risks we have discussed today around the 5G network may also arise with other infrastructure. The Minister for Justice and Security has said that this is still being looked at, also on the basis of the WRR report. But that is also where we need to look at this type of issue, particularly in the European context. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in addition to the 5G networks, the Netherlands has more ICT structures that are crucial for the vital infrastructure such as the production and distribution of energy and water, quays and logistics systems of airports and seaports;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, preferably in cooperation with EU partners, how to ensure the safety and security of that infrastructure, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-504]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u317	Mr. Chairman. I'm distracted by the chairman, who compares my notes, this beautiful green D66 paper, to a beer skin. And that in a serious debate like this! I see that my time has not yet begun, and I am grateful to the President for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u318	But you're through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u319	I've had my best time. You might say that. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the four members of the cabinet who have answered our questions today. Unlike a number of people, I think that rolling out the 5G network in the Netherlands is absolutely essential. It is a way of ensuring that you can continue to participate internationally, in competitive conditions that change very quickly. And if we don't roll out the 5G network, we're gonna catch up. So my group absolutely does not want that. Two. Europe. Yes, I supported Mr Moorlag's motion and I would really like us to go very far in looking at a European approach to internal security. Not only the internal market but also internal security should become more and more a European competence. D66 is really willing to take steps in that. Thirdly, the auction. I welcome the fact that the various spokesmen, together with me, have been able to ensure that we have a written round on this and that we are going to specify a number of things that are likely to go wrong. So thank you for that idea. Finally, democratic control. I'm happy with the technical briefings. I am confident that, on the basis of the information from these briefings, we, as a Chamber, will be able to use other means, where necessary, to ensure that this is done properly. So I will visit the technical briefings and be a critical listener there. Mr. Chairman. My good intention for this year is not to table motions if I have been given a commitment. So I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u320	Okay, that suits you. I fully support that. And all the presidents of service will praise you for that, because we are all tabling far too many motions. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u321	Thank you. There are two ways to roll out 5G, to realize in the Netherlands. Or we could go for the priceless route. Then we'll go into business with the Chinese and lose our privacy. Or we go for the priceless route, and then we do it with Europeans and Americans. But then we can't use it in a way we want it to, because it's gonna be too expensive. Because there is currently no absolute urgency to implement this 5G network, we propose to further optimize the current 4G network throughout the Netherlands and invest in European and preferably even Dutch technology for 5G in a few years' time. In the meantime, more research can be carried out into the risks related to health risks and the risks to our living environment that 5G entails and how these risks can be overcome. That is why, Mr President, I shall table the following two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently no possibility to implement 5G both affordable and safe;]] [[noting that there is too much uncertainty as to the potential health risks posed by 5G;]] [[Calls on the Government to temporarily stop the roll-out of 5G and invest in European and preferably Dutch technology, so that an affordable and espionage-free 5G network can be achieved in a number of years;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out more research into the health risks posed by that network in the meantime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently no urgency to roll out 5G;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is now more in favour of having an optimised 4G(+) network;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its power to have a 4G nationwide coverage, preferably even a 4G+ network by 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-505]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-506]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u322	That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u323	Very nice. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u324	When the quartet is complete, I would like to give the floor to one or the one from the cabinet; I assume the Secretary of State. The tension is increased to the limit. We have 11 motions, most of which will be for the Secretary of State, but that's what the Cabinet is about. If it lasts a long time, everything is "judge chamber" of course. You know that new rule. Or didn't the cabinet get that e-mail? I call the Secretary of State. I'll let you all listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u325	Mr. Chairman. Eleven motions have been tabled. The motions on the documents Nos. 496, 499, 501, 503 and 504 will be answered by the Minister of Justice. One question has been asked to me: do new companies wishing to participate in the auction receive the information based on a general measure of governance? If someone reports and meets the requirements of the Telecom Act, they will receive the information. The motion in part No. 496 is gonna do the minister. Then the motion to part No. 497 in which Mr Weverling asked the Government to extend the scope of the Security and Integrity Decision to antennas in the Radio Access Network. As I pointed out in the debate, this decision applies to the whole network, at least to the issues covered by the ministerial regulation. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u326	Mrs Buitenweg on this motion, briefly and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u327	To understand, is it true that the AMvB applies to all parts and includes the Radio Access Network?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u328	The general measure of governance has two components. The first part is a ministerial arrangement that is now being written. The additional requirements that are included apply to the entire network. But that is different from what can be achieved in decisions on the basis of the same general measure of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u329	But isn't the motion superfluous with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u330	I have no judgment on that. I have indicated that the motion supports the policy and that I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 498, in which the government is invited to enter into consultation with the parties concerned in order to find a solution for the roll-out of 5G, where emergency, emergency and security traffic is concerned; the case of Inmarsat, let us just call it that. With the remark, as I have also shared with you, that the 3.5 GHz band should be made available for mobile communications, I would like to leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber, because I also read it as an appeal to stay in good conversation with this company, which, of course, has a responsibility to find a solution to this. Then the motion to part No. 500, in which Mrs Van den Berg asks the government to organise the auction in such a way that the licence is withdrawn if it is not bought in good faith for its own use, but for speculation, for example. I understand Mrs van den Berg's concern and I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 502, by Mr Bruins. We have also discussed this extensively with each other. I have to advise against this motion, because, as I look at it now, if you do this in this way, it is very probably not feasible and not proportionate and therefore you are taking the competition out of this auction. Then I shall refer to the motion in part No. 505. In this report, Mr Baudet asked the government to carry out more interim research into health risks. Detailed research is being carried out on safety and health risks. There's even a multi-annual cohort study. It is good for Mr Baudet to realise that the demands that already apply... Mr President, Mr Baudet is not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u331	I think he's just updating his Twitter account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u332	Okay, well, there are people who are worried about this, so that's why I finish my sentence. Electromagnetic fields are already present at 4G and 3G. Given the concerns that people have, you should actually communicate about this. Finally, I have a motion from Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u333	What's your final verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u334	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u335	Dissuade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u336	The motion in part No. 506 asks the government to do everything in its power to create a nationwide 4G network, preferably even a 4G+ network, before 1 January. In his speech, Mr Baudet said that you have to work either with Chinese or with Americans and that everything will be fine. I advise against this motion. As we always say at home, there is a middle road in the Beemster. This makes this discussion much too simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u337	I did not table a motion, but I did have another question. I'm not saying specifically either the Americans or the Chinese. I did ask the Secretary of State how they'd solve this in Japan, Australia and France. I'm also very curious how they're gonna solve this in the United States. I would like to know if there have been any contacts, because perhaps that is the solution. We don't know everything. I don't know which meetings the Secretary of State held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u338	I've had a lot of discussions. I refer to the statement just made by the Minister of Justice. In it, he indicated how the task force with relevant services, providers and other experts carried out an analysis on the basis of which we came to the current policy. That's not a status quo that we're gonna keep doing like this forever. There is a structural approach, in which we continue to look closely at technological developments and how to respond to them. You know this cabinet as a cabinet that always tries to inform itself and always tries to learn from knowledge of others, so that goes for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u339	Besides, I didn't get any guarantees, so I'm getting less and less confidence. As a spokesperson I was very much in favour of a quick roll-out, but the reports about China and Huawei are getting so frightening and it gets so awful that you think: boys... It's really sad that I can't really advise my group because I don't always get answers to my questions. That might make me stand in the sand with my heels. There's nothing else to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u340	Of course, that is not necessary. There are no 100% guarantees in this life. In the end, as a representative of the people, you will have to make choices with the information you have, but that's not really my concern. At least that is what we do in the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u341	Thanks to the Secretary of State. I call the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u342	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion on part number one. 496 by Mr Weverling on the request to develop a stress test and a programme and to inform the Chamber annually. I'll give the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 499 calls on the government to allow the structural approach to be adaptive in determining what is critical and also to involve diversification of providers. The motion belongs to Mrs Van de Berg. I'll give the motion judgment, too, Chamber. I would like to dwell a little longer on the motion in part No. 501 by Mrs Buitenweg. I want to get the expectations in the right framework. If we agree, like last time, that we are giving a confidential briefing, that is of course also a confidential briefing. We cannot then say afterwards: I have decided to leave confidentiality for what it is. I would like to emphasise that very clearly. That motion already contains something that is not evident from the threat at the moment, namely "in geographical areas with vital infrastructure, only to use trusted suppliers, including in the Radio Access Network." In that context, I would like to say again very clearly that the starting point for the review is the threat analysis of the services. This also applies to the United Kingdom, but we can see that the United Kingdom has looked at it widely and has appointed all the technical components. This has been looked at in response to a concrete threat and the concrete and specific critical elements have been identified by the provider in the systems. That's what I said in the first term. We did this because the providers do not have the same network structure and therefore may also have different vulnerabilities. That is also the reason why I mentioned both of them in order to give a confidential briefing on exactly how that is going to work. Once again, I have offered this confidential briefing very emphatically, but I must therefore reject this motion at this time, even because the same high demands have been made everywhere. I said the same thing in the first term. These requirements have not been different from one region or another, and that is a different approach from that of the United Kingdom. Then I come to the motion on part No. 503, by Mr Moorlag, Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Buitenweg. If one word changes into that, I can give that motion judgment chamber. In the operative part, replace the word "primary" by the word "co." It now states that the assessment of risks should be based primarily on information, insights and views of the countries involved in cooperation at EU level. If I can replace the word "primary" with "co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co-co.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u343	That's pretty sharp from the Minister, because it would actually mean that you wouldn't weigh the Dutch judgment. I like to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u344	The Moorlag motion c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to assess risks and to adopt appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure the safety and integrity of the 5G network c.a. to ensure that the information, insights and views of the countries involved in cooperation at EU level are taken into account;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 503 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u345	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Moorlag motion in part No. 504. I must tell you that for me it is the first time that I have received two motions in a row from Mr Moorlag, because I had never had them before, and that I can give them both a Chamber of Justice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u346	Thank you. So much for this debate. A warm word of thanks to the four leaders, who have not all been equally active, but we are all the more pleased that they were here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u347	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motions tabled. I'll suspend for 45 minutes before dinner break and then we'll talk about Mr Van Meenen's own-initiative proposal.
