ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u1	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to discuss the amendments, then some questions from your Members and finally the motions for resolutions. First of all, the amendment on item No. 6 by Mr Van Raak on an additional 600 million for the police budget. I'd advise against that. I refer to the first term. I have explained in detail what the structural and occasional investments of this cabinet have been, including by your Chamber's motions, so let us be clear. However, it is appropriate to leave new investments of this size to a subsequent cabinet. That seems to me sufficient to explain why we are not recommending this motion. Then there is the motion by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van den Berge on item No. 13 over 60 million extra for the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u3	You mean the amendment, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u4	Amendment, excuse. My bad. The amendment in part No. 13 is also not recommended. Here too, what I have just said applies in the first instance to the police. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office has received additional funds in recent years precisely in the field of organised crime and a greater focus on the taking away of criminally obtained assets. I informed you about this in a letter dated 17 November. Then there is the amendment to item No. 15 by Mr Van Nispen on 100 million extra for the police for taking away criminal assets. Dissuade again. Again, given the fact that this cabinet has already been structurally financed and that such a large amount of money should, of course, be dealt with in a subsequent cabinet. The dg Undermining has just been given the specific task of directing the packages in order to work closely with all the partners involved to increase the take-off results. It is precisely this Multidisciplinary Intervention Team that I have said that I want to achieve that now. That is also going to play a very important role when it comes to taking away criminal assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u5	Very briefly, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It doesn't come entirely as a surprise. I have a question about this. I think the Minister cannot deny that we hear in the roundtables that we have organised as Chambers that more financial detectives need to be created. There's plenty of work to do. Bearing in mind the discussion we have had, which was with the VVD and the CDA, among other things, which has also tabled a motion on how to calculate what you are investing, I would like to ask this Minister if he is still the cabinet line, the idea is that a euro that you invest in taking more crime money would yield three euros. If that's not the case, I think it would be very good to re-examine it. Then what is the Minister's expectation? What could invest in more financial detectives at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u7	Today, I find that a difficult question to answer, especially to answer it on the basis of a fixed pattern. I think that at least the many position papers that have recently come from, among others, the mayors and the public prosecutors show that it is still important that will then be under a next cabinet to look at further investments in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 17 by Mrs Buitenweg on 3.5 million extra for the Team Combating Children's Porn and Child Sex Tourism and half a million extra for the Public Prosecutor. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Mrs Buitenweg knows that the subject is very important to me, but in addition to what we are already doing, there is no room for this this year on additional issues. In recent years, other police services have been given extra resources that indirectly benefit the TBKKs, as I call them for convenience, through close cooperation, including investments in the Team High Tech Crime. On the cover side, I would like to point out that the means for traffic enforcement are really intended for the maintenance and replacement of traffic enforcement equipment such as route controls and digital speed cameras. And I realize that this year we have to pay very close attention to every euro that is being spent, because corona obviously intervenes heavily in the national finances; let me put it this way. I would have liked to have said that anyway, because I can imagine, of course, that this disappoints some Members. Finally, I come to the amendment to item No. 18, by members Van Nispen and Buitenweg, about the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse. I would also advise against that amendment. The Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse plays, alongside many others, an important role in tackling online sexual child abuse. There is another €168,000 budget for 2021, and I also keep an eye out for any bottlenecks going on 2021. I would stress that the financial position of the EOKM also depends on contributions from third parties, and that has always been so. For example, there are EU grants, contributions from the companies concerned and contributions from funds. Moreover, I believe that more financial contributions should also be made by companies to the EOKM. Can I say very quickly, Mr President, that this also happens in America, for example, at the so-called NCMEC, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children? The NCMEC hall is covered with company names, from Google to Budweiser and from Apple to business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Van Nispen wants to ask a question. Do that very briefly, Mr. Van Nispen, because we still have 61 motions to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u11	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The Minister may agree that companies should contribute to this, but I think it is also a government task to provide such an important agency. The Chamber has paid a great deal of attention to the importance of combating child abuse and cleaning the Internet by removing disgusting material such as child pornography. Last year there was a contribution of over €700,000, and next year there is €168,000 for it. The minister says, "I'm gonna keep my finger on the wrist this year and see what I'm gonna keep up with. Of course, an organization can't run that. That's where people are employed! In this way, that organization is simply threatened in its survival. The amendment seeks to lay down a basis. It is a very modest amendment of €300,000. I understand that every euro must be reversed, but if this coverage is not acceptable to the Minister, I really hope that he will think with us about what can be done. And again, I really do appeal to the Members of Parliament to think about that, too, and to see if we can get out of this. I would be very sorry if next year that organisation no longer exists because we are not making the right decision today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u12	Of course, this isn't the whole story. I have explained that whole story in writing and I have also indicated it as quickly as possible. I said I'll keep an eye on the EOKM in 2021. But we must also realise that part of that €794,000 was additional incidental resources. And we need to see that there are contributions from third parties as well. I have already mentioned subsidies from the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u14	Yes. A number of questions have been asked. I shall begin with Mrs van der Graaf's report on that overview of direct and indirect social costs of drugs. In any case, I want to make a clear commitment that a letter will be sent to the Chamber in January which will give an overview of the various investigations and available monitoring. In the first period, I said that we could then identify what is missing or more needed, in consultation and cooperation with my colleague from VWS, as far as use is concerned. I want to strive for us to be able to really indicate in spring 2021 what is actually going to come out of this. But I have to take a bit of a hit here: first we need to see what the additional research would mean that needs to be done. Mrs Buitenweg asked for the creation of a knowledge centre that helps people to remove online content. She asked me what I had to say. I have already said something about this in the first period, so I hope that has been sufficient further. Then I come, Mr President, to Mrs Yeşilgöz, who had a question about fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u15	Before you proceed, Mrs Van der Graaf, on the previous point. A brief comment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u16	Yeah, I have a quick question. Thank you to the Minister for that generous commitment to that investigation. Does that mean that we will have a little insight into the social costs in March?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u17	Yes, the idea is to provide you in January with a catalogue of what we have national and international research that could be relevant to this. Then we don't have to do it again. Then we should plan a route with each other. I suppose there's still a suitable AO to do that somewhere by the end of January. Then we can identify what further research is needed. That could be even more clear in a few months, but I have to make a bit of a caveat on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u18	Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u19	I get that. Then the Christian Union would be very happy if the Minister could also provide a calculation in January. I'll give that to you in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u20	Okay, I understand that advance on happiness. Maybe happiness is already present, but I put a double caveat on it, because I just don't know how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u22	But creating happiness is perhaps one of the greatest goals in life. Mr. Chairman. The Safety Monitor I will be in the next Security Council, Monday we will speak weekly today, which may have been noticed to bring to the attention of the public. Mr. Chairman. With that, I have answered the questions that have been put to me and I come to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u23	Shortly, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u24	I think the minister started talking about fireworks, and then there was an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u25	Yeah, excuse me. Fireworks are about to be banned. That lies with the colleague, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management. That's what she's talking about. Enforcement policy is on the local triangle. But know that I will be speaking to the Security Council in detail over the coming Mondays about how that should take shape. This is not only without prejudice, but it also encourages the local triangles to formulate their policies. As sad as it may be, it can already be seen from events in some places that there is a need to look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mrs Buitenweg, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u27	I had asked about the UN anti-Semitism campaign that started. A dozen EU Member States are members, but the Netherlands are not. I was wondering what the idea was back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u28	This is evidently the result of a conference organised on its own. I have just read the text in the suspension. What's in there appeals to me very much. The theme that is mentioned here is that around such a coronavirus there is again all kinds of very nasty anti-Semitism in the form of 'it is the fault of the Jews'; disgusting! Disgusting and nonsensical. At least that gives me reason to take a good look at this to see if we can in any way agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u29	Good. Now the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u30	Let's move on to the motions, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I'll go fast and start right away. I will deal with the 'judge chamber' motions very briefly and the motions to be dissuaded a little longer, just to explain why. I hope that's all right with you, Mr. President. The motion in part No. Mrs. Helder's 21 on the police stations, I'm not sure. That strategic housing plan was deployed then, even with your Chamber's approval. That is necessary and effective. That is what is happening, and I have talked to the Chamber about it before. I believe that we should invest mainly in agents and in good money, rather than in stones. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 22 is also Mrs Helder's. It's about the PTSD files and the settlement of pain money. I would like to stress that I find the subject raised by Mrs Helder very sympathetic. I've just been trying to send over those old files for the past year. There is a committee of independents that is going to assess what should be the remuneration according to reasonableness and fairness. I must therefore reject this motion, because it would make me impose the rules that that committee should legally abide by, and I would not approve of that. However, I would like to stress that I understand Mrs Helder's concern that it will be dealt with well and quickly for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u32	I will come to your Chamber early in December with a letter on that. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 25...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u33	And Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u34	About threatened politicians. I'd advise against it. There's no cover for that either. Then I'll come to the PVV motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u35	Really very briefly, Mrs. Helder, because we have 61 motions and if everyone is going to respond to their own motion, we are... Excuse me, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u36	I was thinking about holding the motion on PTSD, but I don't want to do that anyway. The Minister simply wants to be in line with what is common in society, so a maximum compensation of €25,000 for intangible damage, and that's just not right, so it doesn't make sense to hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 26 by Mr Markuszower on Article 68 of the Constitution. In view of the consideration and operative part of the motion, I would advise against that. I would like to stress once again that the cabinet is following the motion for a resolution, the 150-0 motion, as I call it, in its entirety. Then we have the motion in part no. 33 by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, with the research assignment. I'll pass judgment on that, Room. Then the motion to part No. 34, on the safety of freelance journalists, including Mrs Yeşilgöz, on looking at necessary precautions and so on. Also judgment room. The motion in part No. 35 on an equivalent point of contact for both journalists and politicians. Also judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 36 by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Buitenweg.................................................................................................................................................................................... I would ask you to hold this until I have entered into a discussion with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because this is a matter for the Land Registry, and that is not for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u39	I would like to continue the motion, if we can agree that that conversation will take place soon and that we can also really get a response quickly, perhaps by letter. Then we can see what we can do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u40	I admit that this conversation really took place before Christmas, because this month is very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u41	At the request of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, I propose her motion (35570-VI, No. 36). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u42	The motion in part No. 37 by Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Van Toorenburg on the deep nudes, I give a very heartfelt opinion of the Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. 38 by Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on the cyberdependence picture. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it is about broadening the structural approach on 5G-telecom to other vital processes and making risk analyses that make clear where the dependencies are and adaptive measures are possible, then I can leave the motion to judge Chamber. I see someone nodding in the room who is quite essential to that, so I can assume that that is going well. I shall now put to the vote the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u43	From Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u44	At the beginning of December, the criminal justice chain establishes the portfolio for digitisation, so I would ask that this motion be held. That's the motion on forensics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mrs Van Toorenburg states that she has tabled the motion on item No. Forty-two holding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u46	Then the motion to part No. 43, the medal motion. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u47	Well, then Mrs Van Toorenburg can make Mr Van Dam happy. He's already there! He came back just for this motion. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u48	It is not always to be seen by Mr Van Dam, but he is very happy. Mr. Chairman. The Van Toorenburg/Van Dam motion in part No. 44. This is just another matter for the PTSD people, because that is what it is about to ensure that the amount of the pain money does not depend on the amount of money reserved for the treatment of occupational diseases. This motion will be judged by Chamber. 'Cause, indeed, that should never... well, judgment room. The motion in part No. Mrs Kuik's 49 is about, if I may put it briefly, setting minimum ages, 16-minners, etc. Congratulations, Room. The motion in part No. 51 is Mr Van Nispen's motion calling on the government to come up with a realistic vision of what the police will look like in 2024. I'd advise against it. The Chamber is informed in detail about the state of the police four times a year. Twice in a six-month report and in the budget and accountability documents. I have always been willing to do so, and I am sure that my successor will also be willing to talk about what could possibly be improved in this report, but there should be no further burden of accountability. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion by Mr Van Nispen and others. on the efforts to track down criminals who commit certain offences and to take away the crime money. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u49	That's number?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u50	Item No. 52. Excuse me. Mr Van Nispen's motion for a resolution President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr. Chairman. The Van Nispen motion in part No. 55 on the inventory of the need for a neighborhood I recommend. Security measures always have an impact on the person. Monitoring and securing within the system shall ensure that persons can continue to function as safely and as undisturbed as possible. The decision on measures shall always be tailor-made to take appropriate and proportionate measures. They are present in different shapes, shapes and sizes. A district can be an additional measure that the employer can take to provide appropriate opportunities for this, but it is not desirable for the government to want to steer this type of additional measures. That's why I didn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u51	Very briefly, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u52	It's about the post-threat period, so it has nothing to do with criticism of anyone or anything, or with capacity or even investment. Because threats are so profound, it is precisely that people in a confidence-building environment can relax, talk about them and so on. It may sound a little soft, but I think that's very important. People with a toga profession, for example, think of lawyers... do not of course just have an employer who can organize it for them. That the government wouldn't have anything to do with that seems a little strange to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u53	They're not always employers. By the way, I know lawyers as an employed man, but that's all the way by the way. I remain discouraged, because these are really additional matters, and we in the government should not send them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Van Nispen? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u55	I regret that I may not have expressed myself correctly and that at least the Minister does not fully understand the intention of my motion. That's why I'm going to hold the motion. I will ensure that both the Minister and colleagues are better informed about at least the purpose of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u56	At the request of Mr Van Nispen, I propose his motion (35570-VI, No. 55). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u57	Fine. Busted. Then there is the motion by Mr Groothuizen/Van Toorenburg on part No. 60 on capacity to tackle cybercrime. That motion I give to the Chamber, at least if I may interpret the motion in such a way that, if there is any additional investment, these chain effects will also be taken into account immediately. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the police dog move. That's the motion in part No. 67 by Mr Wassenberg. I'd advise against it. The lack of regulation detected will be remedied with the new instruction of office. That's what I said in my first term. The dog is one of the police's most efficient and hardest available weapons, and it must remain so. It's just necessary for the police, too. There has been a debate between Members of Parliament about the fact that we are now gradually introducing the stun gun. That is, I think, a step forward in that respect, one way or another. Then the motion to part No. 68 by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus on strengthening the capacity of the animal police to deal more effectively with malicious trade in animals. I'd advise against it. There are 180 agents who specialize in this. Partly thanks to better chain cooperation with the LIO and the NVWA there can be a lot. More cops aren't responsible. For extra agents, it's just not cover. So it's not advisable. Then the motion to part No. 69 on the prohibition and criminalisation of the killing of pets and pets, other than dogs, cats and geese, although that is not mentioned in the motion, but that was undoubtedly meant, because that is already regulated by the law. But this motion is really the subject of LNV's colleague. I would therefore suggest that the motion be held. I will then pass on the request to the Minister of LNV. It'll give you an appreciation, but I can't guarantee it already happened next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u58	I said it in the announcement of the motion and we discussed it yesterday: the Minister obviously does not know her own law. When I said that it was only dogs, cats and geese, the Minister said nothing but: I insist that I betray her. So the problem is, like I said, guinea pigs get killed with a curb or brick...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u59	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u60	Can the Minister state that the law only provides for the protection of dogs, cats and geese, while guinea pigs, hamsters, birds and all other animals can do what you want as private individuals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u61	Let me put it this way. What I will convey to the Minister of LNV is the piece of the debate that has been on this subject. So that is the contribution of Mr Wassenberg and that is what I am saying about it. I shall then ask her to respond to that and to this motion. We also always have the doctrine of moving insight. Who knows how we live that... I'm not sure that includes animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u62	What are you doing with the motion, Mr. Wassenberg? Hold on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u63	I'll have a word with Mr Graus, but we're not gonna arrest her for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u64	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u65	It's gonna be a few days before we vote on it, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u66	That's Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u67	But I'm gonna have to make a judgment now. Well, then, that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, I would really regret that, because I think that following the debate it is worth simply...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr President, I shall hold the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u69	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (35570-VI, No. 69). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u70	That's right. The motion has been held and there will be a response from the Minister of LNV to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u71	Yeah, thanks to all the moving insight, including the animals. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 70 by Mr Bishop. Judgment Room. It's about the IHRA definition coming out recognizably in the search. I would point out, however, that I have previously given such a motion, not this one but a slightly less far-reaching one, by Mr Van der Staaij's judgment Chamber. But this too I give judgment Chamber, because it is sympathetic to me. Then the motion to part No. 73. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. It's about reducing the FTEs in primary police care. I just sent a letter about the GGP. The measures announced will also really help. I really don't share the impression that the police have lost touch with the neighborhoods. I have also shown some figures on this in the written reply. I'm not going to repeat it here, Mr. Chairman, I promise you, but I have to dissuade her. I would like to discuss with Mr Bishop in a subsequent police debate what I wrote in that GGP letter. Then I have a number of motions from Mr Azarkan. First, the motion in part No. 75, on stepping up the approach of the extreme right. I'd advise against it. As the Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands shows, right-wing extremistism has all the attention of the security services and NCTV. The approach and the fight against extremism and counter-terrorism includes right-wing extremistism if necessary. There is therefore no need to step up this. The Azarkan motion in part No. 76, on the conduct of a national inquiry into discriminatory, racist, women's unfriendly and homophobic language by agents working in the national police, I advise against. There is a good system of complaint handling and a system of trusted persons, complete with the Ombudsman with the police established by a previous motion by Mr Van Dam. In this context, we are still talking about the deficits in the so-called VIK complaint treatment. I sent a letter to your room about that. Then the Azarkan motion in part No. Seventy-eight on stopping the equipment of electric-weapons operatives immediately. In view of what I have just said about this, you can assume that I am going to discourage this motion. There's no reason. Monitoring and evaluation shall be carried out. We've really followed a very careful process. This has led to this gradual introduction. I advise against the Azarkan motion in part No. 79 on the suspension or discontinuation of the use of the police dog. I refer to what I said earlier on the occasion of Mr Wassenberg's motion. It's an important and necessary tool for the police. Then I have the motion in part number. Mr Azarkan on a legal framework for the use of artificial intelligence by the national police. I don't recommend that motion. The police are bound by the state-wide regulations and there is no reason for a separate framework. Finally, the motion on part No. 81, which calls on the Government to examine how the complaint procedure can be made more independent and to ensure that the statements of the independent complaints committee become binding. I don't recommend that motion. There is a good system of complaint handling. As I have just said, an ombudsman has recently been added to it. Those were the questions I was asked and the motions to be dealt with by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you. Mrs Yeşilgöz, did a question remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u73	There's been a new one. In view of the urgency of the matter, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to put an urgent question to the Minister. We just read that there seems to be a female terrorist on his way to the Netherlands. She's called "the beautiful Angela" or "jihad bride." I hope we do not fall for such ridiculous terms. I would like the Minister to confirm that everything is being done to prevent this terrorist from entering the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u74	I can't go into an individual case. That's one thing. Another thing is: if a Dutch courier reports to the Dutch diplomatic representation, that person may ask for consular assistance. Then return could take place under the guidance of the KMar and the person concerned is arrested at Schiphol Airport in case of suspicion of involvement in terrorist crimes, or at least upon arrival in the Netherlands. As long as I am a minister, that is the firm policy and it was also under the Rutte II cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u75	Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u76	In our electoral programme, we have all kinds of elements to try to prevent this; so we no longer offer consular assistance. Anyway, that's for later. I also read that this terrorist was helped by the terrorist in custody, Samir A. We have been throwing a lot of money at him to deradicalize him, but he is now raising money to bring this type of terrorist here. So I would like the Minister to go deeper and inform the Chamber on this, because I really think we should do everything we can not to facilitate human trafficking, with terrorists, by accompanying them here from the embassy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u77	Is this a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u78	No. Perhaps it would be a good idea to get to know such a message first, because this is something Mrs Yeşilgöz calls on the spot. Maybe it's a reason for you to read it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u79	I saw the news report. That was somewhere. I don't remember exactly where it was, but again, I can't discuss individual cases here. Before I sit down, I'd like to say the following. In replying to Mrs Buitenweg's questions, I dealt with the Ministry and the people who work there. I very much appreciate that some of your Members have considered the enormous work done by all the supporters in recent days. If Mr Bishop says that not all the answers were in his qualitative sense, he must look at me and his colleagues. At least me, because I am not going to blame my colleagues now either. But I can assure you that the officials have been working for about two nights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned. Then who's gonna get the floor? What's the order? I call the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have already provided an opinion on the amendments in my contribution. I don't know if I've had them all. The amendment in part No. 8 gets judgment, Room. The amendments to documents Nos. 10, 11, 12 and 20, I advise. Then there's the motions. Mr Markuszower's motion for a resolution Twenty-four, I advise. The same applies to the motion in part No. 25 by Mr Markuszower. The motion in part No. Forty-five by Mrs Van Toorenburg, I can give judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion on item No. 47 on prevention idem ditto. The motion in part No. 48 also gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 53 I advise against. I have indicated that this is more complex than merely the limitation period for those who have been adopted. I can imagine that in several cases you ask whether it is right, where children are concerned, but you can also think of abuse in the young years. This says: you have to change that now. I think that's a step too far. That's why I didn't recommend it. Also the motion in part No. 57 by Mr Jasper van Dijk, I advise. I have already indicated in the written reply the importance of this step in a much wider context. We're trying to bring down the number of bailiffs massively. At the same time, if you don't do something about this, it's ultimately at the disadvantage of making debts. That's why I didn't recommend it. Then the motion to part No. 58. I think we have had a good debate on Poland. I understand the concerns. There is an infringement case by the Commission, which is precisely about that disciplinary chamber. Commissioner Reynders has asked the Polish Government for clarification on the continuation of the activities of the Polish Disciplinary Chamber. Nevertheless, the Cabinet is prepared to prepare an initial legal analysis of this case, i.e. the investigative act, and then approach similar Member States to explore the route 259 together as a preparatory act. That's actually investigating whether this is wise. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 59 gets judgment, Room. With the motion in part No. 62 by Mrs Van Beukering on the Dutch Data Protection Authority, I really cannot get out of my way. They're asking us to map out what we're going to do with the outcome. We did. The investigation is there, and I wrote to you in a comprehensive letter last week that we are working on the recommendations. The second request is to examine how capacity and resources can be increased. That's pretty simple. That's a political choice you can make, but that's not the choice the cabinet is making right now. If that is what is meant, the motion must be discouraged. At Mr Bishop's motion to item No. 74 I hesitate a bit about the appreciation. I would not like to give the impression that children's judges are not doing their job properly or that there is a lack of money which makes them ill-offered. However, I am prepared to enter into this discussion with the Council of Ministers for Justice. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Finally, the motion in part No. 77. It is completely unnecessary, because we are already doing a lot. That's why I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you. Then we'll switch again. I now turn to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were a few more questions I would answer in the second term. The first question is from Mrs Becker. She asked me in the first time when a further evaluation of the subsidy framework for return projects could be expected. Last week you received my letter on the evaluation of the so-called OZV, Support Self-Departure. This evaluation has therefore been carried out recently. A comprehensive review of grant relations will take place in 2021, as announced in the budget. This funding framework will also be taken into account. Mrs Becker also asked me when the new registration of demonstrable departure can be expected. The commitment is to do so with effect from the next reporting alien chain. It is foreseen in the second quarter of 2021. Then Mrs Becker had a third question about the GDPR and the Top-X information sharing. Mrs Becker also asked me about the GDPR barriers. In my written replies, I indicated that in the context of addressing trouble-giving asylum seekers, it is being considered how not to share, but how certain foreign-law information on nuisance asylum seekers can be shared with municipalities, police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. So it's about how it can be shared. It looks at possibilities such as the conclusion of agreements, or, if necessary, the adaptation of legislation. I believe that it should be possible to clarify the possibilities for this by the end of January. I will then inform the Chamber. Then there is Mr Van Ojik's question about Libya. There have been many talks with the Chamber and with Mr Van Ojik about cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard, from the cabinet, by the Prime Minister, Minister Kaag and Minister Blok. We are talking to our Libyan partners both at EU level and in bilateral contacts on the changes that are needed in this area, including respect for international standards, improving the situation in Libyan detention centres, ending arbitrary detention of irregular migrants, cooperation with UNHCR and IOM, both in detention centres and now in the open centre, and tackling smugglers, including the Coast Guard. The importance of these issues is recognised by everyone. Just by continuing to engage in the conversation and continue to approach each other with open sights, it is possible to take steps little by little. Think of the open centre that is in use, the fact that UNHCR and IOM can be present at the landing in Libya and that they have more access to detention centres. Also look at the results of UNHCR and IOM in the context of evacuations and voluntary return. That would not have been possible if we did not remain active with the Libyans. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u84	A very brief remark, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u85	The Secretary of State is now reading a note stating that we are all in favour of this situation. I don't doubt that either, but the fact is that there are still 11 detention centres in Libya at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u86	The important thing I have just said about the way in which both the Dutch cabinet and the European Union are talking to the Libyan partners bilaterally means that it may be a small step forward. We don't want to get rid of that. We think it is important that we can take those steps. I just told you about the open center, the access, the situation at the evacuation and so on. The commitment is to do so jointly, bilaterally with the European Union. We are making little progress there, but that progress is valuable. We don't want to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u87	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 14 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. Unfortunately, I must advise against this amendment. In accordance with the regular system, the Spring Paper 2021 will consider whether an adjustment of the budgets of the IND is necessary on the basis of the current working stock. The proposal for cover runs counter to the budgetary rules which require a separation of income and expenditure. This means that an intensification of policies should not be financed by an increase in revenue, for example through taxes. The cabinet does not intend to deviate from the budgetary rules. In the spring note, therefore, there will be an adjustment, if necessary. That is why I reject the amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 27 by Mr Emiel van Dijk and Mr Wilders. I would advise against this motion, because we want to move forward on many fronts of cooperation with Morocco. The cabinet is actively committed to that. Then the motion to part No. 28 by Mr Emiel van Dijk. This motion is about the Syrians. I'm afraid I have to discourage this motion. As I have said on many occasions, the cabinet determines the situation on the basis of the facts from official reports. The following post is scheduled for May/June 2021. At that time, the policy will be reviewed, if necessary. The motion in part No. 29 also belongs to Mr Emiel van Dijk. The motion concerns the criminalisation of foreigners who are illegally staying in the Netherlands and the return of these foreigners. I'm afraid I have to discourage this motion as well. As Mr Van Dijk is aware, criminalisation of illegal residence is not part of the government agreement of this cabinet. This is not part of the commitment either. Then the motion to part No. 30 by Mr Emiel van Dijk. The motion calls for the borders to be closed for asylum seekers. I'm afraid I have to discourage this motion as well. The cabinet stands for the protection of refugees, in line with international conventions. These are refugees who need our protection because of war situations or violence. I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 31, by Mrs Becker. The motion calls on the government to work with similar neighbouring countries towards a stronger Schengen. I can leave this motion judgment room. Several elements of the motion are in line with the cabinet commitment, especially in relation to Schengen. Moreover, in previous crises, the Netherlands has demonstrated its ability to scale up, where necessary, in the area of border control. The new investigation that the motion is asking for really continues. However, I shall leave the request to the House to decide. Then the motion to part No. 32, by Mrs Becker and Mrs Van Toorenburg. This motion is about the lvv agreements. Apart from the content and the possibilities available to stop funding to the municipalities, I do not think it is appropriate at the moment. The pilot development phase has not yet been completed. At the beginning of February, we'll get the evaluation. So that's very soon. In February 2021, the mid-term review of the WODC will take place. I am already talking to municipalities about deviations in the way they operate. I expect these talks to produce results in the short term. Of course, I will continue to inform your Chamber of the progress of the pilots. You will also receive my response to the mid-term review. I therefore advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 39 by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Moorlag on the unacceptable long wait for certainty. I was clear in the first term about my commitment to that motion. I'll do everything I can to get rid of delays as soon as possible. But the motion lays down an obligation to achieve results, namely 1 June. That does not fit in with the nature of this issue, precisely because care and safety are elements that we do not want to surrender to. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Then the motion to part No. Mr Van Ojik, Mr Moorlag, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Wassenberg. This concerns the letter from the mayors of Nijmegen, Arnhem, Amsterdam, Leiden and Groningen. I appreciate the offer made by the municipalities through that letter from Mr Bruls. The COA will contact these municipalities in order to fill that out. However, the motion calls for more people than the cabinet has agreed to, and for that reason I advise against the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Van Ojik's 41th report concerns the Libyan Coast Guard. Mr Van Ojik already suspected that I would discourage that motion and I do so. I've just explained it to you. Cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard is essential in order to be able to cooperate with the Libyan partners in this way, respecting international standards and improving detention conditions. This dialogue is crucial. This results in small results step by step. So I'm going to have to dissuade that motion. Then the motion to part No. 46 by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Becker. The motion concerns the one-off budget of 1 million and the question of whether more municipalities can still claim it. I agree with the motion that we should put the money into action. Let that be clear. It is therefore not the case that we do not spend the remaining amount for this purpose. As I indicated in the written reply, the remaining amount is used as a subsidy for additional measures to address nuisance, such as a concession in the financing of the shuttle bus between station Emmen and the registration centre in Ter Apel. If I may read the motion in such a way that some outstanding bottlenecks in specific municipalities have to be resolved and that adequate financial resources have to be deployed again in 2021, then I consider that to support my efforts and leave the motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u89	I see there's nodding. I agree with the way you put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u90	The motion in part No. 50 by Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van der Graaf concern a better picture of the victims of trafficking in human beings. That motion I can give judgment Chamber. Exploitation of underage girls and vulnerable young people in general is something that must be prevented at all times. I agree with the proposal. Then I have a motion here without a number. The motion concerns increasing the language requirement. Was that motion held and you're still holding it? So that motion doesn't have a number. It concerns the request for customisation. The Cabinet considers it important that, in the case of naturalisation, it is ensured that everyone masters Dutch at least language level B1. I've already said that. This is in line with the principle in the coalition agreement that the Dutch are something to be proud of and something to earn. The bill is currently in consultation. The reactions to this will still have to be processed, which is why the motion is at least untimely. I would like to inform the author of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u91	If still there is therefore an extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u92	If not, I'll have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u93	No, the motion is really excellent. It also responds to a broad call from society to correct and improve your legislative proposal. So you can include that in your bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u94	Okay, so you're putting the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u95	But then I'll have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u97	The motion in part No. 56 is about return and is also Mr Jasper van Dijk's. This motion deals with why countries such as Spain and France succeed and so on and calls for a return plan to be adopted by 1 January at the latest. On 10 July last, your Chamber received a letter on the implementation of the government agreement agreements. That was following the Becker motion on migration agreements. It sets out in detail the commitment and results in this area. That includes a country policy that also sees return. Therefore, I do not see the added value of the proposed plan of action, and I must therefore discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 60 by Mr Groothuizen, Mrs Becker, Mr Voordewind and Mrs van Toorenburg. This concerns intimidation of lhbti asylum seekers. I very much regret and strongly reject any incident that has occurred. As I also indicated in my written answer to the question raised, the COA is committed to protecting all asylum seekers and vulnerable groups, such as lhbti asylum seekers and religious minorities. Nevertheless, it is always good to see what can be done better. For this reason, I'll leave the motion to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 63 by Mr Moorlag and Mr Jasper van Dijk on 7 000 asylum seekers waiting for me to inform each month. I'm giving that motion judgment room. In line with the commitments made following a motion by Mr Van Ojik, this Chamber will be regularly informed in 2020. If I may read this motion by Members Moorlag and Jasper van Dijk in such a way that in 2021 the production and results of the remaining 7,000 task force cases will be made public, also towards Chamber, then I will give that motion judgment Chamber. So that's from 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u98	We're glad there's a motion that gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u99	Then the motion to part No. 64 by Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Bolkestein, Mrs Kuik, Mr Moorlag and Mr Bishop on Article 273f of the Criminal Code. The cabinet is prepared to share with the Chamber the results of the reconnaissance and a well-founded proposal to amend Article 273f. So this motion gets judgment, Chamber. The motion in part No. 65 by Mr Voordewind, Mr Groothuizen, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Ojik on 50 single minors and 50 vulnerable family members. The motion asks me to push me to the limit. I have indicated in the written answers that I assure your Chamber that it is our intention to realize the first appointments to the Netherlands as soon as possible and preferably before Christmas. I see the motion as an incentive in this respect and therefore leave the judgment on that motion to your Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 66 on the investigation into the asylum chain, which I talked about. Mr Voordewind and your Chamber have heard my commitment to an external review of the asylum chain and also my willingness to consider how Mr Voordewind's concerns could be taken into account. I would like to give careful shape to this approach over the coming period. Therefore, I would ask the petitioner to hold the motion until the moment of sending that approach, beginning 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u100	Okay. Mr. Voordewind, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u101	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that, and I assume that she will take into account the content of my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u102	Sure. Well, I said we're going to look at that approach. We have seen and read your motion, and we are going to see whether the content of that motion is very substantive for those who assess the asylum files, which is in line with the plan we are proposing to address the screening of the asylum chain. We'll look into that carefully. I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u103	Yes, please continue. It all listens very closely, I understand. I hear Mr Voordewind say from the benches that he wants to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u104	Then the motion to part No. Debates of the European Parliament I fully agree with Mr Bishop that a good Return Directive is of the utmost importance. That's what I'm committed to. The link made by Mr Bishop seems to me to be a step too far, for two reasons. The Return Directive is not formally part of the recent comprehensive migration package in the European Commission's technique. That may be very strange, but it's formal. The second reason is that there are many elements in that wide package that we strongly support and expect benefits from. Then you get to approach a package: if you don't do this, you can't do the rest. However, the Return Directive is not part of the European Commission's comprehensive migration package in its technique. However, I think it is necessary to stress it constantly and to use it with strength, together with fellow Member States. But I'm sure that pressure will be there. I cannot therefore attach any obstacles or conditions to the package. We assess all proposals on their merits. For that reason, unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion. But Mr Bishop can be assured of our commitment to finding the effectiveness of return an important part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u105	So the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u106	The verdict is that I'm afraid I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mrs. Becker, you have a short question about your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u108	A while ago, together with Mrs Van Toorenburg, I tabled a motion to the effect that the government should call on the JHA Roads to deal with the Return Directive together with the Migration Pact. It is not yet in place, but we have argued in favour of dealing with this together. That motion was adopted by a majority of 80 members in this House. Can we therefore trust that the Secretary of State will be committed to ensuring that there is such a coincidence? Mr Bishop's motion calls for it not to be supported at all if it does not succeed. I understand that might go too far now. But is that the government's commitment? That is important for our own judgment of how we are going to vote on the motion. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mrs Becker may be assured of that. I said it in the first term, but again in response to Mr Bishop: if this return is not properly arranged, then that means that you also have to deal with the Return Directive, then that pact is not very useful either, and that border procedure and so on. So Mrs Becker, Mrs Van Toorenburg and all those 80 Members of your Chamber who voted in favour of that motion can be assured that I will be very committed to that. Finally, the motion in part No. 72 by Mr Bishop on the RUPS scheme and the DUUP municipalities. Unfortunately, I have to discourage it, because the DUUP is a decentralisation benefit. I can't propose frameworks for that, legally speaking. I can give strong messages, but I can't set frameworks myself. I can have regular contact with the center municipalities where knowledge and experience are shared. And there is no doubt that these funds will be spent on exit programmes. They will certainly be spent and in four years' time the evaluation will be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr Bishop, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u111	It's some kind of target benefit, you might say. Then it is normal that frameworks are given for the use of those funds, so it doesn't go away. Now I'm going to make a caricature of it. No, it is intended for this support as part of an exit program. So I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u112	I understand Mr Bishop's frustration. We're doing what we can within the legal limits that there are. Because it is a decentralisation benefit, we cannot formally-legally set those frameworks, but in material terms we can, by our conversations and by the direction we are trying to give. Yeah, that way, yeah. Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the Justice and Security budget. I thank the rulers. Mrs Kuik has thanked Mrs Van Toorenburg for her commitment, because it is the last budget for her. I wholeheartedly agree with that. This applies not only to Mrs Van Toorenburg, but also to Mr Groothuizen, Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts, Mr Voordewind, Mr Moorlag... Yes, Mr Laçin, but you did not participate in the budget; you will. Mr. Van Ojik, Mrs. Buitenweg... We're not gonna say goodbye forever, because we'll see each other. Yes, so is the Minister, of course. I would also like to thank the officials for their support, but also all the group staff who have worked very hard behind the scenes to support the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-7.u114	We're going to vote on the motions on Tuesday.
