ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care and Sport. I give the floor to Mr Wilders as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV. I see Mr Wilders standing at the interrupting microphone. Would you like to make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u2	If I could, I would like to make a point of order first, Mr President, before I stand behind the chair. This morning, with your help, I put an urgent question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, which is also relevant to this debate. I asked whether the exchange of apps between the mayor of Amsterdam and the Minister of Justice and Security, who continued until Monday evening, could be made public before this debate. The Minister of Justice wants to release it, but the mayor of Amsterdam does not. Unfortunately, I have not yet received an answer, so perhaps it will be possible to respond first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u3	We've been informed and we've been told that that information can reach us any minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u4	After I talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u5	Yeah, it could be. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr President, thank you very much. Monday afternoon, Amsterdam: 10,000 people crammed together on Dam Square, to demonstrate because of George Floyd's death in the United States. Before I go into the blundering of the GroenLinkssburgemaster, I would like to say a few words about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u7	I'm gonna have to interrupt, because the information just came in, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u8	Okay. I'll read it in a minute. I can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u9	Good. Then you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u10	Shall I start over, Mr. Chairman? Yeah? Maybe we can get the numerator back, too? Mr. Chairman. Monday afternoon, Amsterdam: 10,000 people crammed together on Dam Square, to demonstrate because of George Floyd's death in the United States. Before I go into the blunder of the GroenLinksburge master, I would like to say a few words about this. Of course, it's a good thing that people can demonstrate on any subject. And of course, George Floyd's death is to be regretted, especially if it had been for racist reasons. Then that is as bad as those white citizens in America or South Africa or anywhere else in the world who are killed by black people because of their skin colour. Judging people on their skin color is always wrong. But what is also wrong is the self-loathing of the elite who pushed us down the throats of mass immigration, multicultural society and discriminatory Islam and did not tolerate any criticism of it, and those Dutch people who feel like strangers in their own neighborhood, their own city and their own country, and blame discrimination and racism for resisting it, whereas they are the ones who are now discriminated against from all sides. Why don't I hear about that? Look at Rotterdam, where yesterday after the demonstration the image of Pim Fortuyn was painted with the text "racist"; a gross, gross disgrace. Okay, Mr. Chairman. Back to Amsterdam. What a mess Mayor Halsema has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u11	Everyone in the Netherlands agrees that there were too many people on the dam, as there were too many people too close together in Rotterdam. There's no difference of opinion. The question I have for Mr Wilders is the following. Is there ever a time when it is justified for people to demonstrate against racism? I remember a demonstration about Black Piet, of which Mr Wilders said: you should not demonstrate about it; you should not. I remember that people on the international day wanted to demonstrate against racism and Mr Wilders thought it was "butter-crazy." Isn't it just the truth that Mr Wilders never thinks it's a good time to talk about anti-racism?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u12	No. My point is that everyone has to demonstrate as much as they want. I'm fine with people demonstrating. I think that's excellent. And that people get mad at the murder of the gentleman in the United States, again... This is not yet proven, but if that is indeed racistly motivated, I think it is terrible. So I think it would be fine if people were to demonstrate against it. I'm just saying that's just one side of the coin. There is also another side of the coin, something that happens not once now in the United States, and unfortunately also probably more often, but what happens here every day in the Netherlands. There are Dutch people who, through your policies of open borders and bringing in the multicultural society, mass immigration and discriminatory Islam, are now strangers in their own country, and are now discriminated against and no longer feel at home in their own country. And who's gonna stand up for those people? Who stands up for these people? That's my point. It's fine that there's a demonstration. That's a fundamental right I'm giving everyone. But it's a bit of a one-sided story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u13	I think here's the truth... Let me be very clear. If the Prime Minister says at his press conference yesterday that he is concerned about the 1.5 metres that have not been maintained, then I believe him when he says that it is about people's public health. I believe this is also true of colleagues here and when I say it myself, or if the mayor of Rotterdam or Amsterdam says so. But in last week's debate, you yourself said that it was nonsense, that the policy should be changed and that we should all sit together. We are all opposed to this. The truth is that you are using this to make it clear once again that people should not raise their voices and that they should not use their voices to stand up to the racism that exists in the Netherlands and that you do not recognise it; the systematic racism that exists. People are arrested by the police on the basis of their skin color. There is talk of ethnic profiling at the Tax Office. Young people in education do not get rid of the MBO because they cannot find an internship. They are discriminated against in the labour market. You don't want to see it, and you deny it, and you're taking advantage of this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u14	I'm not really taking advantage of anything. I think people should be able to demonstrate. What happened in Amsterdam is indeed very clumsy; certainly. My party thinks that one-and-a-half-meter society is totally exaggerated. I didn't make a secret of that two weeks ago. But that's different from what everyone knows with common sense, with 10,000 men screaming at each other neck and neck. That's asking for trouble. That should have been avoided by the mayor of Amsterdam, your fellow party member. Certainly, we are against the new reality, the new society of the 1.5 metres. We're against that. We think that this is certainly in the outdoors, in the normal course of things when we walk along the street or go to a terrace and you name it, big bullshit. Something else it's to get stuck together in each other's ears screaming all kinds of slogans, whether they're left or right, with 10,000 men together. That's unwise. That shouldn't have happened. If that had happened at any demonstration last Monday, Mr. Klaver, I would have made the same point. Here comes the subject of the demonstration. Again, that's none of my business, because if people want to demonstrate, they demonstrate. I found it a shameful remark from the mayor of Amsterdam that she did not intervene because the demonstration was "too important." A mayor can't say that about the nature of a demonstration. I'm fine with demonstrating. Go ahead. It wouldn't have been okay in Amsterdam with 10,000 men, but go demonstrate if you want. But please, also look at all those Dutch people who are called racist because they feel like strangers in their own country, are called whore by Moroccans or others when they wear a short skirt or who do not get their rent home because an asylum seeker or status holder gets priority. The Dutch are discriminated against. That should be demonstrated sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u15	Everyone agrees that there were too many people together and that this is unwise for public health. But the hypocrisy and here pretending it has nothing to do with the subject... I remember a demonstration of farmers here in The Hague: dangerous scenes on the A12. I did not hear Mr Wilders say that. In fact, the farmers were heroes. In Friesland, people blocked a highway to prevent people from going to an anti-racism demonstration. If I remember correctly, Mr. Wilders thought those highway blockers deserved a medal. And now he has such a big mouth about these people who were demonstrating. Once again, it is quite clear that you cannot be so close to each other at this time, but what Mr Wilders is doing here is not right. He measures with two sizes. Some people have more privileges than others. And that's exactly what racism is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u16	Speaking of double standards... Don't get me started! It was the GroenLinksburgemeester who made sure that the catering entrepreneur who did not set his terrace exactly with a measuring bar of 1.5 meters received a fine of €4,000. There are people who want to visit their grandmother and grandmother in the nursing home and couldn't do that, which almost ruined Grandpa and Grandma with loneliness. That's what happened. There are companies that had to close their cases. There are people who couldn't go to a funeral because they were only allowed 30 men. But at the same time Mrs Halsema says to all kinds of leftist activists: come to the Dam; come, do it. That's double standards. GroenLinks measures with two sizes. Mrs Halsema is the example of this. She's been spitting all those people who've been sticking to these horrible, but necessary corona rules in their faces. Two sizes is the last name of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr Wilders continues to play the record that we know of him, from blaming to the other. But the point I'm making is very fundamental. People demonstrate, wherever, and feel anger. This is about the racism that is in our society, the racism that Mr Wilders is actually showing. He measures with two sizes, because he makes a difference between different protesters. Those people shouldn't have stood there with so many. I couldn't. But the big mouth that Mr Wilders is now talking about these protesters and about what is not right, he did not have when the farmers here in The Hague played dangerous scenes on the A12. Then he took a completely different tone. Exactly that, measuring that with those two sizes of...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Some people have more privileges than others. And that's wrong, Mr. Wilders. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u18	Do you know what's wrong? That's what the mayor of GroenLinks did in Amsterdam. That's what's wrong. I just have a problem not so much with the protesters in Amsterdam, but with the mayor who allowed it. The mayor of Amsterdam only comes up with excuses and blames everyone. Coward can't hardly be a coward. The mayor of Amsterdam says: yes, the police have misinformed me and yes, it was the responsibility of the people themselves and yes, I did not know it all, but when it got a little too hot under my feet, I called the Minister of Justice who said I had the green light. She blamed about everyone but herself. That cowardice, that ultimate institutional cowardice is the cowardice of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u19	It is, of course, striking that when people meet in Amsterdam... I can very well imagine the feeling of a lot of people in the country who look at that and have something like: maybe the work that has been done in the past period has been for nothing and we are back to square one. But it was precisely Mr Wilders who kept the story here for a few weeks that we shouldn't really take it so closely with those rules, with that one-and-a-half-meter society and so on. Now I see that Mr Wilders is politicising a demonstration and he is using big words about mayors who allow demonstrations that Mr Wilders does not like. But here I have pictures of the beach in Duindorp during Ascension Day where people are also very close to each other and also of a park somewhere in the country, a recreation park where people are very close to each other. The same thing happens in Bussloo. I wonder: where was Mr Wilders when a lot of people were together and didn't stick to the agreements? Where was he, then, to dishonor what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u20	Everyone has to follow the rules. Everyone has to stick to the rules, regardless of what I think of that one and a half meters. That one-and-a-half metres should be maintained, although I believe that it should not apply in general in normal life. I also want to drive 150 km/h on the highway, but yes, I can't get a majority for that. Thanks to the VVD, we can still have what is it? drive 90 or 100 km/h. I'll do that, because I'm sticking to those rules. So people have to follow those rules. The difference with Amsterdam is, of course, not so much that for which they demonstrated I am not talking at all about what they demonstrated for, but that at this time, even if you think that the distance one and a half meters in the outdoors in normal traffic is nonsense, it is of course the cat on the bacon when you start screaming with 10,000 men, 10,000 men, hut cap. Singing, screaming, I know what they were doing there. That is very unwise at this time, for anyone who has common sense. And again, I would have said the same thing if it was a demonstration for the Grey Wolves, or a club you find interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u21	I'm gonna give up on that, but I've done that enough times. In any case, it is a windfall for many people in the country to be allowed to raise their voices and express opinions that are not Mr Wilders' opinions. I have mentioned a number of specific examples. The fact that we have to abide by the rules and that this applies to everyone is another windfall, because that shows that Mr Wilders is not selective in any case. In recent times, there have been meetings where hundreds, thousands of people have been sitting together. Well, he's selective about that. Mr Wilders has not spoken about this, with no mention of it. Now that we are talking about an anti-racism demonstration in Amsterdam, Wilders is using great words about the nature of the demonstration and about the mayor, who has allowed such a demonstration. Isn't that selective and hypocritical, Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u22	No, again, I didn't talk at all about the nature of the demonstration. People get to demonstrate what they want. I did say it was pretty one-sided. All those Dutch people who feel like strangers in their own country are being discriminated against. But once again, everyone gets to discriminate. The problem in Amsterdam is, of course, that it was not maintained when people were not just lying around, but standing and singing and singing. And that, if we know about the contagion with corona, is the way it's transmitted. Not everyone wore a mouth cap. So that's something that should never have happened. And even that is what I do not initially blame the people, but the mayor of GroenLinks, Mrs Halsema. It's a shame she hasn't been fired immediately. She accepted that and is unfit for her profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u23	Then why didn't Mr Wilders make any comments about the mayors of Bussloo and The Hague, when people were close together in recreational parks and on beaches? According to the same measure that Mr Wilders is using here, should we make a comment on this? But what did Mr Wilders say in the last few weeks? "Let's expand that all, kid. There's no need for that one-and-a-half-meter society. It's all so strict. No need for anything." I would like Mr Wilders to comment on that point. Why is he so selective when it comes to Amsterdam? Why does he not speak at all about what is happening in The Hague and in countless recreational parks? Does it have anything to do with the fact that these people were white?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u24	I've already given the answer. I'll give you a brief summary of it. That one and a half...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u25	No, I didn't get an answer to my question!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u26	I think I'm talking now. If I'm not allowed to speak, I won't answer at all. That one-and-a-half meter is in general greatly exaggerated. In normal life I've said it two weeks ago when you walk down the street, when you go to a terrace or when you do things outside, you don't walk 1 centimeter or 10 centimeters next to someone. You don't usually sit on a lap with a stranger on a terrace. You keep the normal distance from people. Two weeks ago, I mentioned an example from China. An investigation involving 7,000 people revealed that two of them were infected outside. That's negligible. It is different when it comes to mass meetings, when people are crammed together like in Amsterdam, so not only are you lying somewhere on a beach but also verbally that's the way the virus is transmitted to start screaming, singing slogans and being able to spread the virus in each other's necks. That is common sense, even for the people like me and the people of my party, who oppose the new normal of one-and-a-half-metre society, the dumbest thing you can do. Madam Mayor of Amsterdam should have prevented that, of course. That she didn't do that shows her total incompetence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u27	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr Wilders says here: you must not only look at what is happening in America about racism and exclusion, but also here, because otherwise it is hypocritical. I would then like to ask him how he judges what his own representative, a party colleague elected to the Hague City Council, Henk Bres has sent us over the last few days. He's talking about "niggers," about "typhoid dogs" and a video with which they might understand the message, with which he glorifies violence. They are uncircumcised racist statements on behalf of your party, on behalf of the PVV, on behalf of Mr Wilders. He is very good here to take others into account, but I would now like to give him the opportunity to distance himself from that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u29	Well, I don't have to take a hard distance from it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u30	I'm gonna let it take a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u31	No, I don't have to distance myself from that, but I'm sure I'll distance myself from it. He's already understood that himself. I think he's already removed that mail. It wasn't my words. It's not words we're doing either. I also think he tweeted that he's sorry, that he took it off and that he's staying away from Twitter for the time being. So I'm really not too bad to say that this couldn't be done, Mr. Asscher, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u32	We have heard Mr Wilders many times judge others who may have made a mistake or said something he disagreed with. Then you didn't get this stammering, nuanced "he removed it and stayed away for a while." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Are they out of their minds? Get rid of it!" Same here. In your name, Mr. Wilders, uncircumcised racism. If someone else had done it, you'd have said throw them out. That's for you in the city council of The Hague. The choice is yours...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u33	No, he's not in the city council for us in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr President, my question has not yet been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u36	The choice is yours, Mr. Wilders. Either you throw him out, and not that soft shit you hate so much, or you're just the leader of a racist party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u37	That's total bullshit. We're not racist parties. As I have already said, Mr President, he is not a city council member, but a successor to the council, the civil council member himself said that it was not a good thing and that he stopped. You can now point your arrows at me, that is your right, and I have also distanced myself from it with sincerity, but the point is that so many others in the Netherlands are discriminated against every day by the policies of the Labour Party, among others, every day again, every day suffer the consequences of mass immigration, which the Labour Party has signed, of all those people from Muslim countries who have come here, who are building mosques here, and I know what all these things are doing, who voted for the Labour Party. People here for years are on a waiting list for a social rental house because your party found and believes that asylum seekers should be given priority. People do not get an exemption from their own health insurance risk while other people do. People in their neighborhood are afraid to be beaten up when they drink a glass of water during the Ramadan. People who, as I just said, walk down the street in a short skirt are called whore. People get beat up on the street on a sale night by those Moroccan scumbags. That is the racism that the Netherlands has to deal with every day. You can take one example from my party, so there will be people in every party, and that is in no way good to talk about, but every Dutchman who now feels like a stranger in his own country is being beaten by the Party of Labour, GroenLinks and all the other parties who have brought multicultural society to the Netherlands and those who say something about it are snaring and screaming for racist and discriminatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr Wilders is always ready to demand the headlines of everyone. Mr Wilders is always ready to say: it needs to be tougher and it needs to be firmer. I have now said twice: be clear. He says: I have distanced myself in all sincerity. But I didn't hear that at all. I have not heard any excuses from Mr Wilders for all those people who feel terribly grieved because, while they are as Dutch as you and I, they are treated in this way while working here, paying taxes, contributing, taking care of us when we are sick, teaching our children. They are beaten to death in the name of the PVV, by a successor in the city council. No, you're right. He's not in the city council, but he was just on the list and elected. You don't distance yourself at all. You're not throwing him out. You don't apologize. So the rest is all crocodile tears. If you are not prepared to clean up in your own party, which has only one member but more people on lists, then it is nothing. And you know it. You're in bed. You know it. As long as you do not tackle that racism in your own party, you have no title to talk about anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u39	I have a huge title, just to talk about the Labour Party. For, once again, Mr Asscher takes one example, but look at your own party and what your party has made of the Netherlands. You've ruined the Netherlands. You have ensured that half of Africa and half of the Islamic world have come to the Netherlands. You have ensured that Dutch people no longer know their own culture. You have ensured that there are almost 500 mosques in the Netherlands. You have made sure that the Dutchman who used to vote for the Labour Party is discriminated against. You have ensured that women in the Netherlands from Muslim families who have brought you in are discriminated against. You made sure that the people you brought into the Netherlands molest gays, that those gays discriminate. Your party, the Labour Party, and not an example of one person at the PVV. Your entire party, the Labour Party, represents total discrimination and racism of the Dutchman who no longer recognizes his own country. You have to apologize for that. I shouldn't apologize. You should apologize. All right, Chairman, back to Amsterdam. What a mess Mrs. Halsema has made. Even if you think, like the PVV, that the new is not normally one-and-a-half-metre society, it is totally irresponsible to allow 10,000 people side by side screaming in each other's ears on Dam Square. The most shocking thing is the indescribable arrogance of that conceited diva of GroenLinks. How she blamed everything and everyone but herself. The police had misjudged it. The Minister of Justice knew about it and had given the green light. It was the responsibility of those present. And the demonstration was actually far too important to intervene. They're all bollocks. She was responsible. It was she who failed. She should have prevented 10,000 people from coming to the Dam. You get mugged by that, you're ill-prepared, you're unfit for the job of mayor. And how is it possible that the chairman of the Dutch Police Union said that agents had already warned on Monday at the beginning of the afternoon that too many people would come to the Dam and that nothing had happened to it? Madam President. In this way Mrs Halsema is spitting all those people who have kept to the rules, right in their face. Horeca entrepreneurs will be fined €4,000 if they ignore the rules. Older people faded into solitude because they weren't allowed visitors because of the rules. People weren't allowed to go to funerals. Companies had to close down. And now they're all getting Mrs. Halsema's middle finger. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to fire the Mayor of Amsterdam. And you can. Don't make excuses that you can't, because it's possible. Fire that anarchist activist, dressed as mayor. Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: the Netherlands has intervened far too late. After the first outbreak in Italy at the end of January, we should have taken immediate action in early February. But we also have a bone to pick with China. It is now clear to everyone that China has lied to the whole world and informed far too late about the nature and extent of the virus, which means that many more people have become infected and died worldwide and here in the Netherlands, rather than when we were previously informed about the truth. Our economy also received unnecessarily heavy blows as a result. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore to summon the Chinese Ambassador and to make a claim of tens of billions of euros to the Chinese Government. They informed us too late. They're responsible. Let not the Dutch citizen but China pay the bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr. Chairman. The whole of the Netherlands was eagerly looking forward to last Monday, to 1 June, the day when a number of measures were relaxed. We are allowed to go back to the terrace and, although limited to 30 people and of course with the known 1.5 meters distance, guests may also be invited to the restaurant. Like museums and cultural institutions. And of course we also watched with excitement the 1st of June with the question: is that all going well? Mr. Chairman. Actually, it went pretty well everywhere. With that we can congratulate and congratulate our people from the catering industry. With a wider layout of the terraces, arranged walkways, separation panels and with a dose of common sense, catering entrepreneurs and visitors have complied with the rules we all set. Unfortunately, that common sense was lacking in a demonstration in Amsterdam, something that many people are rightly angry about. In fact, the whole of the Netherlands has been using its common sense over the past few months to keep to all these strict measures as well and as angry as they are. That common sense was lacking on Monday, as the rule is 1.5 meters for both protesters and the organizers. Therefore, demonstrating is a fundamental right, but that right can be further completed, including on the basis of public health risks. Those risks are still there. So to everyone who was on the Dam: stay at home for the time being, keep an eye on your health and have your complaints, get tested, because that is also possible since 1 June. Anyone with complaints can be tested. Mr. Chairman. The relaxation of measures therefore includes maximum testing and good source and contact research. The capacity seems to be there now, but I'm still a little worried about speed. If one of us gets infected today, it'll take a few days to get any complaints. With a bit of bad luck, someone looks at it for a day at first: am I really sick? They'll call for a test. This can be done for 24 hours, after which another 48 hours later the test result is there, with possibly an additional test to rule out a false positive. All in all, we are on our way for more than a week before the GGD can start the contact investigation. Seems to me this has to be faster. Mr Van Dissel of the RIVM confirmed this this morning during the briefing and I also see that it is moving faster in other countries. Does the Minister of Health share my concern and does he agree that it should be speeded up? Mr. Chairman. Looking ahead, the Roadmap still contains a number of dates with a number of facilitations. Let us work together to ensure that these can continue and let us hope that we do not have to take a step back. This will require continued support for the measures, something which will, of course, come under increasing pressure over time, because it will take a long time, and because of demonstrations such as last Monday. Unfortunately, therefore, we cannot exclude a step back. That is why I would like the cabinet to keep the various measures taken in light of the question: what has worked well and what has little or nothing contributed to the goals we have set in fighting the coronavirus? What was the health gain and what was the health damage and the economic damage, so that we can deliver more tailor-made solutions with maximum health gain and minimal economic and/or social damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u42	To be honest, I expected the chairman of the VVD, but Mr Van der Linde is also good. He's wearing his best suit today, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u43	Fieldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u44	Fieldman! I'm saying it wrong! I didn't mean to. I meant it really nicer than this. Excuse me! Mr. Veldman! I have a question about the lack of effective measures for slaughterhouses. So they are already a corona fireplace and we can actually see that the cabinet is getting rid of that easily, by not asking for OMT advice and simply throwing it over the fence in the security regions. I do not understand that as well as hearing Mr Veldman say here: we must avoid taking a step back. The second question I have concerns the letter we received on the approach in the mink breeding industry. I understand from that that the cabinet chooses to clean up the now infected farms, so kill all the animals, but then give that mink-frog the opportunity to take new mink again. Then tax money goes first to killing the animals and then the cabinet says: then we will see if it happens again. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u45	In my view, the cabinet has made a very sensible decision by having companies where infections have been detected cleared. This is in line with the agreements made over the period up to 2023, namely that it should be phased out. But you know this better, because you are holding the debates on agriculture and fisheries. Then you've got an intermediate period. And yes, then there is also room for entrepreneurs within the current agreements to see if they want to take any new steps after their business has been cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u46	But I don't understand that. We know mink are comprehensible for corona. We know they can get that easily. We also know that they form a reservoir with which they can infect people again. That's what the scientists are warning us about. The government policy is now that if there is an infection somewhere, all animals are killed and the mink-frog gets compensation for it. That's where taxpayers' money goes. The same mink frog may just start again. The cabinet says if there's another infection, we'll see it again. We're gonna clean up again and then we're gonna go back to tax money. So you run that risk of another outbreak, with risks to public health, and you have to pump tax money into it again. The VVD can't be serious, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u47	In my view, it is a sensible decision to remove the holdings where infections have been detected. Not all farms have been infected. Not all farms have infections. Where the removal is now taking place, it seems logical to me that the entrepreneur should be compensated. It's gonna happen to you: your company's just gone. So I think it is right that there should be a compensation. In addition, agreements have been made with the sector on phasing-out over time. That deadline isn't now. You are actually saying that you want to bring that deadline forward. That is what you must say and then you must discuss it with the Minister. I believe that this debate will also take place next week, so you will be putting it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u49	I actually have a question for you, Mr President. How many interruptions do we have in the first term? 'Cause I'm gonna have to split them up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u50	Now that you ask, I actually want to agree with you that you are asking ten questions in total throughout the debate. There have been some interruptions at the beginning, but I am going to count from now on, because I should have said this at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u51	Thank you. Then I'll save the rest of my questions for other spokesmen and the cabinet, because I think I'll need them. And again, I apologize for the confusion about your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr President, thank you. This morning there was another briefing, as it happens every time. It has become a beautiful and important ritual in this Chamber. As a result of the briefing, I do have a number of questions, especially about the holidays that are coming, such as air traffic. I understand very well that we in the Netherlands have said 'don't go on holiday with public transport, try to tax it as little as possible' and that there is a maximum capacity of 40%. But I understand that that doesn't apply to planes, and I find that weird. Soon people will be able to be stuffed in an airplane, where the maximum requirement of 40% doesn't apply. My question is, in fact, what health advice is the basis for this. I understand that this comes from directives of IATA, the interbranch association of airlines. I understand that they have an economic argument, but what is the medical argument to say that in planes people like herring can get together in a barrel and there is no risk of contamination? Another point I want to make, because it's time to look ahead, is about the vaccine. We have supported the WHO's idea of a covidpool. I would also like to compliment you on that. I also welcome the cooperation with other countries and I thank the cabinet for the letter on this, but what does this mean in concrete terms? Does it mean, for example, that we are going to say with these countries, as Bill Gates actually did: these are the vaccines that we think are going to be successful and we are going to distribute which factories are going to start in which locations, so that we can make the vaccine very soon? In other words, can the Minister give this more hands and feet? This too requires a great deal of extra money to do it right, money that we already know has been thrown away by more than half, perhaps 80%. I would like to point out that we are very willing to do so, because this is precisely a risk that we have to take. Then the mink. My colleague, Mr Ouwehand, has just mentioned it. I believe that it has taken a long time before it has been cleared up. I hope it wasn't too late. These mink breeders must be compensated for their removal. I understand that, and I'm quite right to do so. It's terrible for these entrepreneurs. But it remains strange: in 2024 they have to close, but in the meantime they can start again. Should we not work out a fair settlement for these farmers right now to ensure that they can stop earlier? Then ISDS: the case law between large companies and states. A disturbing investigation has been published showing that the big law firms in the world are already actually making all kinds of offers for large companies to help them sue states through ISDS, Investor-State Dispute Settlement. We often talk about this when it comes to CETA and TTIP. In fact, these big law firms say to large multinationals: if there is a country that has said to its citizens 'you don't have to pay the energy bill', then we can make sure that we can tell it on that land. Or: if certain sectors are closed and you have suffered damage, we can tell them for you. Now you will ask yourself: why should this be discussed in the Dutch Parliament? The Netherlands is a claim paradise. We have more than 100 investment treaties with all kinds of countries around the world. This means that all major multinationals have established a small business in the Netherlands, so that they can sue other countries. I would like to know from the cabinet what it is going to do to ensure that the Netherlands is not being used for the fact that many of the developing countries will soon be able to be sued by large multinationals because they have only made an effort to protect their people from this terrible corona virus. I'd like a response from this cabinet. Finally. I found the Prime Minister perfectly clear in his press conference yesterday when it was about racism and the demonstration. Yeah, there were way too many people. It can't be. But he also said that racism occurs not only in America, but also here in the Netherlands. He didn't want to call it institutional, I don't think. That's what I call it, but he called it systemic. Let's not fall over the words. It does mean that he admits it's embedded in our institutions. Unfortunately. We gotta get that out of there. I have noticed that it was important for many people that the Prime Minister said this, but I would like to ask him in this light if he is prepared to come back to the words he said earlier, namely that people should fight in. If you say "it's systemic and it's in our institutions," it's too easy to say "fight in," because the system won't let you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u54	Thank you. Mr Wilders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u55	I do not know if the colleague has had time while I was talking to watch the app exchange between his party colleague the mayor of Amsterdam and the Minister of Justice. 'Cause this is really... I mean, the mayor's position was already untenable, but if she doesn't get on her feet in two minutes, I don't get it at all. Has the colleague of GroenLinks seen that the mayor of Amsterdam actually tried the following? When she thought, "I'm wrong. I cannot and do not want to dissolve it; then I should have acted sooner," she literally said to the Minister of Justice: "The Telegraaf is going completely loose now, I want to say that this has been a triangulation decision, with back-spoke with you. Femke." Then the Minister says: "There hasn't been any backspoke at all. No way, we're not gonna do that." A little later, the mayor of Amsterdam says: "Yes, but you leave me in the cold. How could you put me in the cold? I understand that the right takes the opportunity of the Netherlands and sees a golden opportunity. You're leaving me in the cold." In other words, the mayor of Amsterdam just fake things. She simply wanted the Minister to say that he was involved in the decision not to act. We now know that the Minister of Justice says: that is not true at all! Then the mayor of Amsterdam says: yes, but the Netherlands on the right is looking at me, you leave me in the cold. He's a big liar, that lady of your party, who is the mayor of Amsterdam. Don't you agree with me that she should get her hands on her as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u56	I have a strong impression that it doesn't really matter what the Mayor of Amsterdam, Femke Halsema, would do. Whether she takes a decision on a demonstration, which congratulates Mr Wilders on his birthday or goes shopping: Mr Wilders does have his opinion ready, namely that she really needs to take care of her anyway. That's the first thing. Second. I had to take a quick look at that app exchange, but I see a mayor there who will inform the Minister of Justice at 5:00 p.m. She then says: I am not now able to maintain the emergency regulation that exists, that 1.5 metres, and we are not going to do so now in the light of safety. She'll inform the Minister of Justice about that. He says: I understand that; I support that; I agree with that. I have not yet been able to take the rest entirely, but then there is an app exchange about the hard tone of the Minister of Justice. I get the feeling, "Oh, my gosh, are you dropping me now?" What's going on here? But what's in that app change isn't very relevant. What is relevant is that there were too many people on the Dam. That is what the Mayor of Amsterdam said. To be perfectly honest, when this happened Monday night, we all thought and I had the same question: could you have done something, so you could have let these people break up peacefully? Couldn't you have done something that would've ended it sooner? In the timeline in the letter, which went to the city council of Amsterdam, I see that at 6:00 p.m., 6:10 p.m., they should have made the decision to evacuate. That happened in Rotterdam. They then make the choice not to do so, because they think that, given public health, the Dam is empty rather than empty. I think they got it right. It should never have been so full, but the Dam was empty in time, without any stirs, and that is different from what happened yesterday in Rotterdam. There they maintained twenty minutes before the end of the demonstration and then there were riots. I understand the mayor of Amsterdam's assessment, and I think she did the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u57	But that's not my point at all. What a bunch of sweat stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u58	It doesn't matter what the point is either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u59	It's hard, isn't it, if you're gonna talk through me? The reality is that Madame mayor has been lying. She's been lying! This whole piece can be read by anyone, because I think it is now on all public websites. It just turns out that there was a big fight between the Minister of Justice and the Mayor of Amsterdam. Again: I want to say, because the Telegraph is going to go, that this has been a decision with your back-spoke. The Minister of Justice: there has been no backspoke at all. The Minister of Justice then again: I'm surprised how this unfolds on your side; I haven't had a word with you at all. And then Mrs. Halsema says: this is what you wanted to record for the WOB, isn't it? What an atmosphere, Madam President! You could have done it differently, now you're leaving me in the cold. What does the mayor of Amsterdam say next? You might want to check with the minister before you respond to the media. The Netherlands on the right sees a golden opportunity. You're leaving me in the cold. Conclusion: it wasn't just a big fight, because Mrs. Halsema also felt wetness. She didn't have her affairs in order, and she wanted the Minister's support. She just asked the Minister. It's black and white. If you're saying we did it in consultation with you, I have no problem. Fortunately, the Minister of Justice says: look at it; I am not doing that. She tried to do that in a devious way, and that has now become public. She's not worth a snipe in front of her. She's a liar, and if you stand behind her, it says as much about you as it does about that horrible Mrs. Halsema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u60	For the full hundred percent and the one who is devious here is Mr Wilders. Slinks is the way he's trying to quote now and here he's trying to make it clear what's going on. The mayor had informed the Minister of Justice and it's perfectly clear. The mayor himself said to the Minister of Justice: there is only one person here who takes a decision, and that is the triangle in Amsterdam. But Mr Wilders does not go into what I just mentioned. Mr Wilders did not comment on how this demonstration ended in the end. Let us say very clearly here that the point is that there were too many people on the Dam. That shouldn't have happened! It's easy to observe that from the Lower House, but if you're mayor, driver in a city like this, you have to wonder how to let these people leave in the most secure way. And then I notice that it succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u61	Madam President, finally. That's not the point. Again, you're going, Mr. Clover, beyond the point. I understand that, because it's painful. I also understand very well that the Justice Minister said on Tuesday 'I want to make this public' and that Mrs Halsema has just said this, probably after consulting ten lawyers. She did that because I asked Chamber questions to the cabinet. But actually, she didn't want it at all. Of course, everyone was wondering why the Minister of Justice wanted to make it public and not Mrs Halsema. We know that now: she screwed things up. She tried to say to the Minister: I want to say that I have decided in consultation with you. It's literally there and you shouldn't take it off with some bullshit story! Then the Minister of Justice says: there has been no back-up with me at all. And then she gets mad. So she's been cheating. She tried to wipe her own street with a one-two, and we all know that. The lady has to quit now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u62	It is absolutely complete, but it really is complete nonsense what Mr Wilders is saying here. As I said, it doesn't matter what the Mayor of Amsterdam does, it doesn't matter what Femke Halsema does: it's not good or it's bad. I'm just telling you how this was handled. It's an app change. I understand very well what is being said and what Mr Wilders is trying to do here is cheap and easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is getting some air again. Many of the measures against the spread of the virus have been phased out. The last sun-drenched Pentecost weekend we have fortunately seen that most Dutch people have handled the recovered freedom and behaved themselves. It is also a compliment to all entrepreneurs who think creatively about how something can be done within all existing constraints. The demonstration last Monday in Amsterdam was a huge downer. Respectful of the health care workers, a blow to the face of disabled people in institutions and of independent elderly people in nursing homes that are not allowed to receive visits and incomprehensible to entrepreneurs and citizens who comply with the rules. Demonstration law is a fundamental right, but how is the Prime Minister going to ensure that it is done in a responsible manner? Mr. Chairman. The drafting of the directives is still unclear. Some companies do not get a chance to become coronaproof, such as small campsites at the farmer. Entrepreneurs are treated differently. Pilates is seen in one municipality as a sport and in the other as a contact profession. A dance school is in one municipality culture and in the other municipality a sport. The CDA wants clear transparent rules so that we can create that one-and-a-half-metre society. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. My colleague from the VVD also talked about it: a good test policy and associated source and contact research are crucial to prevent a second wave. The shorter the period between the first complaints and the source and contact research, the less spread of the virus. Is it true that you can now only be tested almost everywhere during office hours, that the result lasts at least 24 hours and the source and contact research only starts the day after the result? Then you'll be days away. The CDA wants that period to be greatly shortened. What's it gonna take? How is mutual assistance organised, given the remark of the Mayor of Apeldoorn that with the outbreak at St Jansdal Hospital and the slaughterhouses there is insufficient GD capacity in that region to conduct all those investigations? We want to know how that will be arranged among ourselves. Are they not assisted by another region? Mr. Chairman. In preventing a second wave it is also important to measure where exactly the spread takes place. More and more researchers point out that most infections occur inside. This may have to do with the degree of ventilation. Can the cabinet state what the latest insights are about this? Is the Minister prepared to ask the OMT to elaborate on this in a subsequent opinion? After all, if it is true that contamination with good ventilation can be prevented or reduced, we must do everything we can to ensure that there are clear rules for businesses, organisations and citizens to ensure that work and living areas are adequately ventilated from autumn onwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u65	I welcome the concern expressed by the CDA colleague about the capacity at the GGD. We even got some really nasty reports about it. Sanquin is currently conducting research into antibodies and would like to include as many people as possible who have been tested positively. They have asked the GGD: can you give a letter from us to the people who have tested positive? The GGD will let us know: we have too little capacity for that, so we cannot cooperate in that. Do you agree with us that perhaps with some encouragement from the cabinet that would help greatly in the fight against this horrible virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u66	In my opinion, the Minister has already indicated that he is certainly prepared to encourage, in general terms, people who have been infected to come forward later, also because the plasma may be interesting for the research. I understand that the Minister is certainly prepared to do so. As for the way that happens, there are several roads that go to Rome. Mr. Krol specifically states that the G.D.D. needs to give another letter. I think we should also give the GGD time to build everything up and that maybe we can't do that next week but in a later phase we can. I also understand that the GGD must now ensure that the period between testing and the start of the source and contact research is as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u67	On the first part we are in total agreement, but there is a letter from Sanquin that they would very much like to give to the people who have been tested positive. That can only be done if the GGD actually makes those letters available. Can't we go through the cabinet together and make sure that call goes that way? I understand that this may not work in one day, but given the seriousness of this matter, perhaps we could jointly insist that the letter should indeed reach those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u68	Once again all the support for Mr Krol's goal, but I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about its feasibility. Finally, Mr President. We need to prepare for a second wave. It is good to read that the execution of the Jetten/Pieter Heerma motion is being arrested. It calls for a plan to ensure the continuity of regular care with perhaps a solution to the separation of regular care and corona care. But who's in charge? Because it seems that every institution is now going to do what it thinks is right. For example, we hear that the new platform for adequate data exchange between hospitals is no longer being used. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past few days, many Dutch people have been able to pick up their lives bit by bit. That's really nice. At the same time, there are many concerns: thousands of people who have already lost their jobs, companies that are on the verge of bankruptcy andzzp'ers who are at home without a job. There are also many concerns about the future: the future of your job, the future of your income. Last week we had a debate here with the cabinet on the second aid package. We are now seeing companies being saved for billions and entrepreneurs getting worse and worse. At first, "only" "between thick quotes" allowed a company to fire its flex employees if it received support. Now the dismissal penalty has largely disappeared and that applies to all employees. At first,zzp'ers who lost their jobs due to the corona crisis could count on support. Now that's just the case forzzp'ers who don't have a partner with a job. In doing so, this cabinet is increasingly presenting itself as an employer's cabinet. What we also see is that the most vulnerable in society are hit hardest by the corona virus. That is what we see at the moment with the migrant workers, who are currently being transported in vans and are poorly housed. It is therefore not surprising that there are more and more corona outbreaks there. We ask the cabinet how it intends to protect these people and thus society better. Mr. Chairman. The number of hospital admissions is decreasing. That is really very good news and very nice. We do have concerns about the government's strategy. We believe that the success of this strategy depends on the success of the source and contact research. We would therefore like to ask the cabinet if it is prepared to give more insight into that source and contact research. Then we really mean facts and figures, for example: how many contacts have been followed up? How many people are actually going into quarantine? Are the advice of the GGD properly respected? Is the cabinet willing to do that? Mr. Chairman. One more question for the Prime Minister. What exactly is at the heart of the strategy's objective? A great deal has been said about this here in the Chamber, but I would like to hear it from him once again. Is it the maximum control of the virus and thus keeping it manageable for the care, but also accepting that it goes around a bit? Or is it "we think that's inherent in source and contact research "trying to contain it as much as possible? So that also means that you're going to try to bring it back to zero as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. Dan Amsterdam and Rotterdam. We've all seen the footage of the mass gatherings there. I think that many people are hopeful and combative and find it heartwarming to see that so many people are currently willing to stand up and speak out against racism and discrimination. Of course, there are also many legitimate concerns. Such a mass meeting at the moment is absolutely not wise. Fortunately, these days we see that it can go together. We believe that the fight against racism, against the coronavirus and for a just world must go hand in hand. Mr. Chairman. Then the nursing homes. A lot has happened there. There's been a lot of talk about this. A lot of people are infected there. Unfortunately, a lot of people have died. There were problems with the protective equipment and tests that came too late. When we hear the virologists of this country, we have to prepare for a possible second wave, no matter how annoying that may be. We would very much like to use the summer period to ask experts to learn from what happened in those institutions, particularly in nursing homes, but also in disability care. We do not want to do that in order to bring about a political settlement, and I am sure that there will be a lot of research into how to deal with this cabinet's corona crisis, but rather to learn from what happened there and to make sure that, if there is a second wave, we do not hope that it is better prepared. My question is whether the cabinet is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the appreciation of our caregivers. These people are pulling us through the crisis right now. We've applauded them. We agreed here they'd get a bonus. That's great. The minister told us last week they're gonna get it for the summer. That's good news. But it shouldn't end with a bonus and clapping. We want structural appreciation for care. This means a better salary, better working conditions and more colleagues. My question is what the cabinet is prepared to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u71	Thank you. Mrs Diertens has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Monday we regained a piece of our freedom. We lived there: 1 juno. For those who walked around the inner cities around noon, the feeling of expectation was almost tangible. And it was rewarded because the catering industry, the museums and the public sector have prepared themselves incredibly well and professionally, and because visitors of terraces, exhibitions and trains realized what is at stake. If you're too greedy, there's a chance you're gonna overplay your hand and have to tie it back in. But it went well. It's been fun. My big compliments. My group therefore sees no reason not to include coffeeshops and sex workers in the relaxation on 1 July. I'd like a response to that. But in a few places things also went wrong. Our society is now being tested by a pandemic, but the virus called racism has been splitting our society for much longer. My group has therefore done well that so many people think it is important to go out on the streets for this. But we are very shocked by the gross neglect of the one-and-a-half meter rule. We have been able to read correspondence between the Minister of Justice and the mayor. How does the Prime Minister assess the support that Minister Grapperhaus expressed for not intervening with the mayor? And how does the Prime Minister assess the events in Rotterdam and the actions of local authority? Now it's time to get the spirit back in the bottle. People have made so many sacrifices in the interests of public health in recent months. They saw a full Dam on Monday afternoon with 5,000 people close together. How are you going to keep these people motivated to keep following the corona rules? I'd like to know about the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The vacation beckons. Aircraft companies are scaling up. American airlines give passengers extra space in the cabin, but in the Netherlands there is still uncertainty. The OMT doesn't have any advice yet. What does the Minister think of full aircraft in which no distance is kept? And what will be the advice towards the holiday? Mr. Chairman. The GGD plays an essential role in identifying possible new hotspots. On day one, the GGD received more than 320,000 calls, of which only 5% actually qualify for a test. We have indicated several times that logistics should not be a bottleneck. I ask the Minister how he himself looks back on these first days of testing everyone and how he ensures that the GGD remains accessible to people who do have complaints and need to be tested quickly. Dangerous hotspots also occur in mink farming and slaughterhouses. It can't be explained that these possible infection sites weren't closed as soon as possible when it turned out that mink could have infected people and already infected them. Fortunately, the Minister has decided to do this. Abattoirs have been telling us since mid-March that they do not comply with RIVM rules. Why has there been so long waiting for intervention? Mr. Chairman. It's going in the right direction and it's been nice weather for weeks. Everyone knows that in good weather you have to fix the roof. Don't wait till it rains. Last week, our motion was adopted to prevent regular care from getting back into trouble in the event of an unexpected new flare-up of the virus. Now that we know better how the virus is behaving, we can learn from the past few months. I would therefore like to ask what is on the table, perhaps also in European cooperation. What else are we going to do and how are we going to better protect our vulnerable in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u73	Thank you. Mrs Diertens, Mrs Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u74	Yes, I have a question for the D66 Group. We have indeed had to wait a long time for it, but the cabinet has now taken a decision on mink farming. I wonder how the Health spokesperson of D66 looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mrs. Diertens is her name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u76	Yes, her name is Mrs. Diertens. A nice name when you get a question from the Party for Animals. I saw D66 tell you to shut down the infected farms and not start them again. I very much agreed with that. Now the cabinet's doing something else. That actually says: new minks can be bred again and we will not intervene again until a new infection has arisen. Does D66 believe that it should stick to its old position and should strengthen the cabinet on this point by saying: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u77	Public health is one thing. So we really can't risk the emergence of new infections. So that's what we have to prevent. D66 does not want to close all mink farms directly, but only the infected farms. As you know, there will be a debate on this next week. I think that is a better place to discuss this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u78	We do have a bit of a difference of opinion on that. Two weeks ago, Mr Jetten and the chairman of the political group, D66 also had the story that the Minister of Health should be given the perseverance force. I was very happy about that. You have supported our motion. It's accepted. Then you can see that D66 is requesting a debate on the minks with only the Minister of LNV, while we still have to address the Minister of Health, because he should say from the public health point of view: we know that minks are receptive to that virus and that experts warn that they can form a reservoir; from a preventive public health point of view, the companies that are now being disposed of cannot start breeding with minks again. Because that's how LNV reasons. LNV says: on the basis of the Animal Law, we can only intervene if the infection is already there. The motion said that the VWS minister should be the boss. I am talking about the prevention of this type of animal disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u79	As stated, D66 believes that contaminated farms should be closed equally. We have signed the motion on the perseverance force and we still agree on that. This will be discussed in the AA. I think the government itself is about its own delegations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u81	I heard Mrs. Diertens talking about the lessons we've learned. Actually, I think that's a good attitude. The crisis structure is being reduced again and the spread is now low, but we are all concerned about what is happening in the future. I heard Mrs Marijnissen on that too. I myself would like to suggest that we take a short look at how we have done it now and what we can learn from it, so that we can do better later. We sail on sight, but in the meantime we have been able to see something. Would you support such an outside look that we can organize this summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u82	Yeah, I'd definitely like that very much, because I'm in favour of this bubble being a little wider than in general. I've already started asking people: what are your practical experiences? I think it's also good to hear experts on what's happened recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr. Chairman. "Although we had plenty of tests, we wouldn't test everyone," a member of the OMT recently said in an interview. That, I think, is why the strategy keeps coming back as a subject. It remains unclear what the purpose of the cabinet is: to have checked or contain? In the meantime, I think the evidence is stacking up that you have to contain it, that you want as little sick as possible, that you have to test it, that you have to protect people and that you have to go after them. The question I would like to ask is: how is the supervision of what the GGDs are going to do about source and contact research? How public does the cabinet want to be about the trade-offs? Unfortunately, the Court rejected my proposal to make these considerations public. But it would be a good idea for the cabinet to choose it. Because in the end, it determines whether or not we get large numbers of sick again. The virus itself will not disappear, but if we keep it under control, it not only saves sick people, but also saves our economy an incredible future blow. So I think we're obligated to do that. In that respect, I have questions about how that dashboard is developing now. We now understand that at least two of these meters are known: three days in a row 10 ic recordings and three days in a row 40 hospitalizations. But if you consider that in the cabinet metaphor, so if you look in the rearview mirror, you actually see a chain collision in that rearview mirror. You want to get there a lot sooner. You don't want ten people on the ICU, or nine: you want as little as possible. So the question is: is the Cabinet prepared to look closely at the source of infection and the clusters that arise in that source and contact research, so that you can do intelligent source and contact research, to prevent that care capacity from coming under pressure, that people get sick and that our economy is so damaged? In that context, I do not immediately find the way things are going at the Vion abattoirs encouraging. You can see that people are wondering if they should join. 'Cause if you're an employee there working on a zero-hour contract, you don't have an income if you stay home and you're not sick. The cabinet writes a number of things about that, for example that they are going to find out legally. But in my view, the cabinet has to make the statement here: this is extremely important. The Minister of Finance said the counter is at 100 billion. Nine thousand people have died. So we have a huge social interest to make sure that people for whom we think that is better are actually going into isolation, quarantine, that they keep their income, that we offer their hotel space if necessary, that we oblige employers to join in and that we use the reporting to make sure you get there quickly. So all the search questions: at your service. But that must be our verdict. We don't have time to waste. Mr. Chairman. We have also, of course, seen that wonderful things have happened in this enormous change in care. People have started improvising, people have stepped forward and there has been cooperation on areas where you haven't seen that before. I would like to ask the cabinet what it is going to do to preserve the good of it, and so to prevent it from happening again suddenly as if hospitals are not allowed to work together, or that nursing homes and hospitals should not work together. So rather that cooperation than quickly return to market forces. If you don't decide that now, the insurers are going to stir up again and say: yes, but we can't negotiate properly. No, this is also a time to change that. Mr. Chairman. I just said in an interruption to Mrs Diertens: I think this is the time for a brief external mid-term review of how the Netherlands has done it, looking for what we can do better and looking for what we should, above all, continue with. We now know so much more that we can fortunately leave the idea that we should only sail through that fog on the basis of the experts. A number of things have gone very well and there are also things that can be done better. So I'm going to suggest that later, and I hope we can agree to that. Finally, Mr President. Mr Wilders spoke here about racism. I think we should not look away from the fact that so many people in this country are excluded, excluded and not heard, and experience in person what it is like to be discriminated against. I would be delighted if we were to have that debate, which will not be today, and the Prime Minister and the Cabinet will also show what they are prepared to do about it. Because in the end, that's our mission. And then you have the city council in Amsterdam to judge the local authority there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr President. It is only a few months since we were gathered here in this Chamber with a country that had almost completely stalled, not quite, because it was a smart lockdown. I remember the tension that was palpable here. It was also exciting with the threat of a black scenario in hospitals. How different it is today. There are few new hospitalizations and the terraces are open again; I also used them on Monday and it was delicious. The children are going back to school and we can gradually visit our loved ones in nursing homes again. The closure of nursing homes for visitors is perhaps the most painful measure that had to be taken. I'll get back to you on that. We must not slacken now and repeat the measures that people can take themselves: keeping their distance, staying at home when complaints and tests, testing, testing. What about that last one, Minister? A lot of people have called, but not everyone is being referred to the test street. There are questions about the capacity of laboratories. To be really effective, the results will have to be there within a day, after which the contact examination will be started immediately. What is the Cabinet going to do to make that possible? In addition, it is important to continue to take steps to control the virus. The aim must be to minimise contamination and prevent us from being attacked by a new outbreak. How do we prepare ourselves for a new peak in this relatively quiet period? Think about protective equipment, but also about the employees in care who are in great need of rest. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Monday night there was a demonstration on the Dam of 5,000 people. The cause they fought for, equality of all people, is also our struggle. Racism is unacceptable. In any case, the right of demonstration is a great asset that we attach to, but in corona time we will have to organise it differently. What is the government going to do to support municipalities in this and to manage demonstrations? Mr. Chairman. I get a lot of poignant stories about visiting nursing homes. People can only see their loved ones from behind a fence or under the watchful eye of the staff. Some nursing homes are even completely closed so that visitors are not possible. Who came up with the rules? VWS didn't, the inspection didn't. There's another way, and there's gotta be another way. We are glad that more visitors are possible from 15 June, but that is not self-evident. The basic safety, such as infection prevention, must of course be in order. We would like to see tailor-made agreements between the physician, the closet and the care staff based on trust. Learning from the past, but also giving dialogue and responsibility: that is what this must be about. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Good thing there's a strategy for people with disabilities or chronic illness. It is important that everyone in our society can participate, even now. My friend Kars often, even yesterday, sends me a message via Facebook. He wants to get back to work, but he's not allowed yet. How's the day's spending going, I'll ask the Minister. Last week, the Chamber unanimously adopted a motion - Segers c.s. adopted on agreements with churches. It is good that pastors in churches are seen as practitioners of a contact profession, but has the conversation with the churches taken place in the meantime? Have any appointments been made? I'd like to hear the answer to that. Finally, Mr President. The corona virus brings with it a whole new vocabulary. I understand that there are already 700 new words and that this number is growing every day, from one and a half meters of society to corona hairstyle. At the same time, for my group this is not the new normal, but the temporary abnormal. Planning agencies have also made statements in this direction. They advise not to focus on the short term, but on a healthy, resilient and sustainable society. How's the cabinet gonna work on this? As far as my group is concerned, there is certainly room for much more work to be done on prevention. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u88	Mrs Dik-Faber represents a government party, a party that, as they should all have, has a high priority. At least, I suppose people appreciate people telling the truth. Now it turns out that I am curious what you think of the app exchange between the Minister of Justice and the Mayor of Amsterdam that the Mayor of Amsterdam asked the Minister to lie. She asked him to say that they had consulted and that he was involved in the decision-making process in order not to end the demonstration. The Minister says: but that is not true at all. Then she says again, "Yes, you do. You're abandoning me." How do you feel about our capital having a mayor who's just trying to cheat?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u89	That app correspondence has just been handed out. I haven't been able to take notice of that yet. In general, I don't think calls to lie are correct and not okay. That shouldn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u90	If you haven't read it, be sure to do so immediately. Maybe I can ask you about it later. If you agree with me that this is indeed the case, I think it is difficult to deny, do you think that such a person should be mayor of our capital? I can also put that question to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u91	I understand that the question is being asked here, but at the same time I think this is a question that lies first and foremost on the board of the Amsterdam City Council. That is where the debate needs to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u92	Sure, that's okay. We have more debates here on matters that are discussed from the United Nations to the city council. I'm just asking for the opinion of the Christian Union. You're a government party, an important party. Now there's a mayor here who tried to get the Minister of Justice to lie. Luckily, that didn't work out, because the Minister refused. Your minister, your cabinet, who supports you. My question to you is: if you also immediately believe that this is the case, do you, as a ChristianUnion Group here in the House of Representatives, find it in your opinion to the city council of Amsterdam, that such a person could be mayor of our capital?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u93	Let us at least be pleased that we have a very capable minister in this cabinet. I said what I wanted to say about lying. I do not think that is possible if that is indeed the case. If any conclusions are to be drawn, this is a discussion that will have to be held in the city council of Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u94	I should like to comment on Mrs Dik-Faber's last point. It was about prevention. It is true that there is a piece in the letter that we received, that we need to move more and that a healthier lifestyle is of great importance. But what struck me in the letter is that there is no mention of the elderly. It is about young people and about how important sports are and so on, but I believe that moving for the elderly is also very important. People are home a lot now. Moving is very important, also in the context of fall prevention. I would like to have the opinion of the Christian Union on this. Did she miss that in this minister's letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u95	I have taken note of the passages in the letter on prevention. As far as I am concerned, these passages could have been much more extensive. This will also be inherent in the desire not to make the letter even thicker than it already is. The portfolio of prevention is from the State Secretary of VWS, Mr Blokhuis. He's not represented here. That's as an introduction. And yes, I certainly think prevention for the elderly is very important. I myself raised it this morning in the technical briefing. As far as I am concerned, we must also make a full effort. I think it would be wise to continue the discussion with the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u97	Thank you, Mr President. At the core, politics is making choices in scarcity. I think we're ready for that. When the first coronado fell in the Netherlands, the cabinet took the direction and proclaimed far-reaching measures, with a restriction of freedoms and fundamental rights, and even of the deep human need for proximity. Those were tough and difficult choices. But they were needed, because we had to avoid, as a precaution, that a lot of people would end up on the ICUs and a lot of people would die. Despite not knowing everything, it was necessary to take these measures as a precaution. I also understand that, now that the crisis has lasted longer, people are beginning to wonder whether it was all necessary, whether these restrictions were not too harsh and whether they are not too long. The cabinet is right to say that we are going to evaluate it and without a doubt we will find that mistakes have been made. I think that's a good attitude. But I also think it is good to say clearly to people who are now in doubt: "People, this is the misery you get when a new infectious disease breaks out. She's new. No one's resisting it. We don't know how contagious it is. We don't know how deadly it is. So this is what happens when you cause a zoonoses. Because more than half to three-quarters of the new infectious diseases that threaten our health are caused by the soloing of people with animals." Just say that clearly, and we'll know that we have to do everything we can not go through this again. Mr. Chairman. Now we are finally on the verge of relaxing things, but then it is important to keep the politics of choosing in scarcity very sharp. The Party for Animals chooses to where it can be... the reproduction number is still around 1, so we can not relax much... but not everything. You can relax a few things, but not everything at once. Then the Party chooses for the Animals to give back fundamental rights and where it can be the proximity of people, as soon as it is possible to lift the 1.5 meters in the outdoor air, and not for this purpose the Cabinet now chooses to breed aircraft, slaughterhouses and mink. Those are exactly the three things you shouldn't do if you want to prevent another pandemic. Those are the wrong choices. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party has been ringing the bell since day one about what is going to happen in the slaughterhouses. If the advice is that people should stay at home in case of complaints, you know that there are going to be workers and supervisors. On this basis alone, the cabinet could see that problems would arise in slaughterhouses. There's been no action. Only yesterday the slaughterhouses came back in the letter from the crisis team, but there are still no measures. The Party for Animals has had to learn. Only when the German authorities asked the Dutch GGD to please test in a slaughterhouse and found 20% of the employees infected in Groenlo, did the Minister of LNV say in consultation with the NVWA: then we stop the slaughter there now. But after a conversation with the slaughterhouses, the place was thrown over the fence again in the security regions. As a result, the largest pig slaughter house in the Netherlands, where 17% of the people are infected on the basis of a sample, has to go through. Vulnerable migrant workers simply have to work under dangerous conditions, just like the supervisors, because economic interests are now going to play a role. It can't be. The Minister of Health must intervene here. The same goes for the mink. Those companies need to be quiet. You can't get those lofts filled with mink again while experts warn that there's another risk. The cabinet now chooses to wait until there is another infection. Totally irresponsible. Finally, good words towards the Prime Minister. I am really glad that yesterday, following the situation in America, he said in the press conference that people in the Netherlands are also experiencing racism. I'll ask him what follow-up he'll follow up on that. Is he willing to invite the organizers or spokesmen of the people who are now on the streets to protest at the Catshuis to hear what their experiences are, to share their feelings and to take action to end institutional racism in the Netherlands? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for speaking 30 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u98	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr. Chairman. Today is Grandpa's Day and Grandma's Day. A day when grandpas and grandmothers like to cuddle with their grandchildren, but they haven't been able to do that for months, and they won't be able to do that in the near future. Then how do you explain to all the grandfathers and grandmothers in the Netherlands that there was a demonstration on Dam Square, where 5,000 people were close together and the mayor didn't intervene? What measures are being taken to prevent this happening in the future? In the decision-making process of the nursing homes, the focus so far has been mainly on preventing the spread of the coronavirus. 50PLUS understands that. In further decision-making, quality of life is also very important. How will the Minister take the quality of life of the residents into account in further decision-making? And is he willing to think with parties from the field about a plan for nursing homes, with a view to a possible second wave? We have to be well prepared, don't we? A visitor ban as we've had in recent months doesn't think 50PLUS is an option. A group of over 700,000 people with less urgent complaints is still waiting for an appointment with a healthcare professional. The people with a disease on the urgency list know where they stand, but not at all the large group with less urgent complaints. How will the Minister ensure that they too get perspective? Seven out of ten people don't have a hospital appointment yet, and they're worried about that. How's he gonna take those concerns away? 50PLUS achieve signals that care personnel working in the non-covid departments noticeably often become infected with the coronavirus. Does the Minister receive these signals and is he prepared to investigate them further? After all, we need all those caregivers as much as we can. And it's almost summer. Many people go on holiday which makes many elderly people lonely and increases feelings of anxiety and depression. Is there enough attention to that? The risk also increases on days on which the heat plan takes effect. Does that plan meet the requirements of the corona measures or should the plan be revised? I'd like a response from the Minister. Last week, the cabinet announced a support package for the municipalities of half a billion euros. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, that is a good first step. I read in the letter that the cabinet's starting point is that co-governments, as a result of the Corona approach, should not be put in a worse position than before. But if that's a tough guarantee, I'm asking the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. We would also like to draw attention to the economic consequences of the pandemic. Although we had a debate last week on the support measures, the e-mails continue to flow over the problems with the SBI codes: not a good code and there is no support. The Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland takes a lot of time for research, time that entrepreneurs don't have which threatens to fall. Seven weeks, no response. Can't we go any faster? If we are to maintain employment, this is more than necessary. Can we get a commitment on this? We also welcome the initiative to cooperate with Germany, France and Italy on a vaccine. Can the Minister go into more detail on how he envisages this? After all, we often see subsidies from the government being taken down eagerly, but then private profits are sky high. I'd like a response. Last time we talked about the grant to KLM, who is in the grip of France. We would like to draw attention to our Hoogovens, although I cannot call them that anymore, or Tata Steel. Today a plea in Het Financieele Dagblad to make this company independent again, apart from the Indian parent company. Last week we talked here about reshoring, so getting more manufacturing industry to the Netherlands. We are currently seeing a company that is stuck, that wants to innovate and make it sustainable and that wants to do so socially. Can the Prime Minister mean anything in this? There are 9,000 people working there, including many older workers. The fear of their company's future is not unjustified. Can the Prime Minister mean anything in this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u100	Mrs Van Brenk mentioned the SBI codes, in the sense that sometimes there is some uncertainty about them, and she made some requests. Does she agree with the CDA that there should also be greater clarity for healthy companies, but which have just been taken over from January to the beginning of March? For example, they have been in existence for 40 years but are not now eligible for the NOW scheme. Does she agree that this should be clarified?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u101	We did, indeed, draw attention to this last week in the debate, because a specific date can really be set as a company, which means that you are excluded from the subsidy, when you are demonstrably a healthy company and you can prove that you have that cost. At the time, at least we had the promise that data should not be a problem anymore. So the point that is being made here by the CDA was said last week that this would not play anymore. If that is the case, I would like to hear, together with the CDA of the Prime Minister, whether that problem has really been eliminated. 'Cause I really should.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u103	Madam President. There is a time for everything in life. There's a time to be born and there's a time to die. A time to cry and a time to laugh. A time to embrace someone and a time to keep your distance. Those are well-known and wise words from the ancient Bible book Ecclesiastes, but they are now going to live extra, if that hug with grandmother and grandmother suddenly can't, or if that wedding or funeral goes as much as we used to. The wise Solomon is also aware that there is a God above time. That doesn't make you indifferent, but it does give you relaxation and courage. That is how we, the SGP Group, stand at this time of crisis. We are taking sensible precautions, which is very important, but we are not trying to eliminate any insecurity and any risk at all. The one-and-a-half-meter society is at most a temporary measure, which does not last a day longer than is necessary, but as long as it is necessary, it must be taken seriously and enforced. The SGP calls for tailor-made work in the current transition phase. Don't put a warehouse full of rules. Keep appealing to everyone's own responsibility. Create clear framework conditions when it comes to these distance standards and hygiene measures. And then let people and organisations be free to make sensible choices independently within those frameworks. Give space for regional and local customization. My question is: do such notions also come back into the emergency law, or the temporary law, which is now being drafted, and when can we expect that law now? In the case of restrictions on freedom rights, tailor-made work is required. The SGP wants to get rid of the blunt steering at maximum numbers as quickly as possible. Now it feels as arbitrariness that large demonstrations are obviously possible, but for example church services still have a strict maximum number of churchgoers. That wrings. When will it be possible to take more responsibility for local customization, where a very large church, which can easily meet all the requirements, can also receive more churchgoers? Will this point also be taken seriously in the consultations with the churches that Minister Grapperhaus is going to conduct next week? Mr. Chairman. Last week I visited the residential care centre d'Amandelhof in Capelle aan den IJssel. Of course, as with all the other residential care centres, they are happy with the relaxation, but the strict visitation rules still weigh heavily on the residents and their family members. I am pleased that these visitation rules will be further relaxed by 15 June. At the same time, the question to the Minister as to how this is communicated, because it may very soon cause confusion again, as if everything could be done right away. So would he also like to clarify what that means in this respect? The planning agencies suggested that if the virus revives family and caregivers give priority protection equipment so that visits can continue. I think that's a good idea. Is the cabinet picking that up? I also spoke to nurses and nurses at the nursing center. You can see how corona has chopped into it and how important aftercare is, especially now that we also have to take into account a new outbreak of the virus. Then it is time to have the learned lessons sharp on all fronts and turn them into action. That indeed came out in the technical briefing and Mr Asscher already mentioned the outside view. But my group also had the question: can the cabinet set out the main lessons learned and what actions are being taken? It's really good to see what we've learned now and what's important when such a virus re-emergs. Also when it comes to that future perspective, there is now a great deal of emphasis on getting a vaccine available. We also call for more research into corona treatments, on lifestyle prevention. Is the cabinet picking up that glove, too? Finally. I asked earlier if the cabinet would be willing to meet the additional demand for relationship and family support. There's been conversations, but there's still little movement. What additional measures could be taken to increase the financial accessibility of relationship and family support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u104	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u105	Thank you, Mr President. For about a hundred days, the Netherlands has been in the grip of the coronavirus. How different life was a hundred days ago, how different life is now. Thanks to the hard work of people in care, education, safety regions and many more occupational groups, we can return to normal life step by step. Although the Netherlands craves further relaxation, vigilance and caution are needed. If you don't do that for yourself, do it for the elderly, the vulnerable or the people you love. That is why we understand very well the feeling that a lot of people have when they see thousands of people coming on their feet for demonstrations in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague. We are well aware that such meetings involve risks and strengthen the feeling that we can be back to square one in the shortest possible time. However, it is remarkable that, despite the one and a half meter regulations, despite the logistical constraints and despite the concerns, people have risen massively against racism and excessive police violence. Dutch, white and black, young and old, went to squares in Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam to make a fist against exclusion and racism with thousands. It is all the more remarkable that some political parties here do not want to understand what makes these people stand up. They do not want to understand the pain, sorrow and anger that many Dutch people feel as a result of institutional racism and discrimination. That is why we are pleased that the Prime Minister spoke out loudly against discrimination and racism. Yet he misses the point when he says that he does not want to use the words 'institutional racism' and puts those words away as'sociological jargon' and even 'hate'. But let me put him in touch with reality. What do you call it when, based on your origins, you are wrongly referred to as a fraud by the Tax Office, which ruins your life? What do you call it when you get lower-level advice at school because of your skin color and when you're interviewing at the bottom of the pile? What do you call it when because of your skin color you are systematically arrested by the police and you get a knee in your neck that chokes you? It's called institutional racism. Then, in addition to standards, you must also set out actions to eradicate discrimination and racism. The Prime Minister said at the press conference yesterday that he doesn't want to do that. I'm asking him to do that. Then there's another point. Many Dutch people are currently wondering whether they can go on holiday abroad this summer after months of corona-wretched and hard work in health care or in education. Yesterday, during the press conference, the Prime Minister said that some European countries such as Italy and Spain are on holiday, but countries outside the EU are likely to continue to receive a negative travel advice. This has a huge impact on many Dutch people. Top destinations such as Turkey and Morocco or countries where a large Dutch community has its roots, such as Suriname or Cape Verde, give negative travel advice. There are consequences. You can't drive to Turkey because your car won't be insured. You can't go to family in Suriname because your travel insurance is not valid. Your aunt in Morocco is gonna be tough, because you're gonna have to quarantine for two weeks after that. Your precious buried in the country of origin is made impossible by a few colors in a schematic. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to make bilateral agreements with countries that are the top destination for many Dutch people, such as Turkey, Morocco and Suriname, to meet these people, who are longing for family visits and holidays. Mr President, my final point. The event industry has sent a letter to all political groups in which they share their concerns with us. They have thousands of meters of surface area, but are not allowed to organise, for example, a ceremony with more than 30 people. This sector has sufficient space and has now drawn up a sectoral protocol, but is not yet being heard. Is the cabinet prepared to engage with this sector in order to make tailor-made work possible for this sector? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u106	Thank you. Mr Hiddema has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u107	Mr. Chairman. To the disappointment perhaps of those who love it: this is about legal inequality and not racism, unfortunately. Last week, it became painfully clear that the emergency regulations are being used at random to discriminate against population groups. Let me explain. March 26th, meetings of more than 30 people were banned. On the same day, FvD filed a motion to prevent far-reaching decisions from being made, while people could not demonstrate. The motion was voted down. March 30th, hundreds of farmers arrived. Their action was banned and stopped by the police because of the 1.5 meters. Last Saturday, protesters were also removed in The Hague with police vans and police horses and with mass arrests. So what now? I need to keep up the momentum. There's the mayor of Amsterdam. Emergency regulations don't apply to everyone. Demonstrations against government policy are immediately being crushed, but demonstrating in the wake of police violence in the United States is not a problem and is being encouraged. The measures have been relaxed, but the 1.5 m distance rule is still valid. People are still criminal if they shake hands on the street. I'm coming to Halsema now. I have to change my... I was going to say, 'cause I got the report from the app exchange. That's disconcerting, and I want to talk about it. What a setup the minister is worried about. She only called the Minister to know how to cover herself afterwards and so that she could say: if there is a tramp, I have consulted with the Minister. She called at 5:02 p.m. Here speaks a "Dam expert"; I live around the corner. Then she grabs and says to the Minister: it's very crowded here, emotions are high and I can't do anything. Not at all! At 5:00 it was quiet, calm, calm and serene. She has addressed the Minister in such a way as to put him in a situation where the Minister would say: well, let him go under those circumstances. Then she thought: ah, the demonstration goes on and my vain display of commitment can also go on the street. Quickly remove the clothes from the closet, put on the button and protect with a strange smile. Target achieved. Then there's trouble, and then she tries to remind the minister of that first call. The Minister will have said: that is not a big deal, but if you explain it so that there has been consultation with the triangle and with me, you have come to the wrong place with me. What a piece of shit! That phone call is pure deception from the Minister. That's as ready as a whistle. Mr. Wilders has asked me to fire the lady. I'm sure you should. If I were Mr. Grapperhaus, I'd feel very displeased in the vicinity of the mayor of the largest city in this country. What a show. And so flashy. Luckily, the Minister is so forcefully looking through this excuse and saying, "You shouldn't be with me, I'm not falling for it." Now she's in trouble herself. But she lied. And what else did she do? She's created a piece of legal inequality that doesn't match. In order for her vain display of moral righteousness to prevail in her square, she has flooded the square. At 5:00 p.m., she could have seen for hours that it was over, but she didn't do anything. Then she put the Minister on the spot, stepped in and went along with the demonstration. Get Button out of the closet and demonstrate with us. Now look at what's going to happen to all those ongoing proceedings of people who have to go to court because of that five feet. What are they gonna do if they're a little smart? They're gonna bring an action before the court for the inadmissibility of the D.A.'s actions on grounds of legal incompetence. It's not the neighbor who said "you can stay in my garden." No, we're talking about supreme authority. So, what's going on? The supreme authority has arranged it so that it can glorify itself. Well, the judge will find that very interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of the Krol/Van Kooten-Arissen group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues have already said a great deal about the demonstration and performance of the mayor in Amsterdam. I'm curious to hear the Prime Minister's response. In the previous debate on corona, the Minister stated that institutions are over-cautious. The worst happens, as it turns out: after weeks of closure, people actually die because of loneliness. In his letter this morning, the Minister states that only 700 nursing homes have taken up enlargement. My question is: why so little? The rule is that only one regular visitor is allowed now. This is already painful, and why is enlargement not being implemented until 15 June and not already now? In addition, visitors are given a fixed visit time of only one hour per week. That often goes without consultation and if it is not convenient, for example because of the work, then it stops. Does the Minister intend to take urgent action in this regard? And what is the situation with regard to the transport to daily consumption, which should be settled again from 1 June? Finally, it seems that the regulations of the cabinet for nursing homes are mandatory, but they are, of course, opinions. People must not be held against their will. That's a hostage situation. With each other in the outdoors is better than being locked up. If residents of nursing homes just follow the guidelines that apply to everyone, then surely they can just go outside? Can the Minister state clearly in his news that they are advice and that residents are free to go outside? Can the Minister make an urgent effort to get residents back out there? Finally, the letter from Sanquin. Sanquin's jumping over plasma donors. Wouldn't it be better to spread the letter about that? The GGD is far too busy there we have all the understanding for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Can the Minister dive into that, because I think it is very wise that this should happen? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u110	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mr. Chairman. Freedoms are being taken from us under the guise of corona. We are no longer allowed to be buried or cremated online to our sick relatives and deceased under the orders of this cabinet. We must not shake hands, and we must keep a distance of five feet. And our Prime Minister continues to press us to do it together. But as mentioned earlier, we do not do it together at all and the arbitrariness is now boundless. A demonstration on the Malieveld against the lockdown was stopped by politics and people had to take off their stop-de-lockdown T-shirt. However, an anarchist demonstration in Amsterdam was allowed to go against all the rules. Barbers and gyms were fortunately allowed to open again after long delays, but bowling centres and dance schools were not. Massage parlors do, brothels don't. The IKEA did, the Concertgebouw didn't. Amusement parks do, fairs don't. Officials, directors and politicians do not suffer damage, but SMEs are being thrown into the abyss. In health care, asymmetry is even worse. Corona patients are targeting cancer patients and heart patients, and the care gap is now around 700,000 people. But there are also differences in other areas. Young people should not have had to suffer from the corona measures, because older people are mainly at risk. And in the provinces of Friesland, Groningen and Drenthe, business never had to be shut down because there was a corona outbreak in Brabant. But customization was missing and still lacking on all fronts. Mr. Chairman. Numbers don't lie. The Netherlands is in the top ten bad corona countries. We have 348 coronados per million inhabitants and that is much more than in the United States or Brazil. In many countries Dutch people are now being banned, because we are a risk area, and the economic damage in the Netherlands is huge. Mr President, I do not really have any further questions for this cabinet. We've lost a lot of our freedoms and we need to see that we get them back. The new normal of one-and-a-half-meter society is completely undesirable and the bill we are going to pay is inconceivablely high. History will judge this corona cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u112	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u113	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u114	I would like to make a point of order, Mr President. Given the importance of the app exchange, its context and also the comments made by the Minister of Justice that he understands the non-maintainment of the 1.5 metres, I do not think that we can go further without the presence of the Minister of Justice and Security in this debate. I'd like to have him with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u115	What about the rest of the MPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr. Chairman. For us, the Minister for Justice and Security does not need to be present at the moment. Let us continue the debate on the corona measures and the corona virus. This is a debate that should initially be held in the city council of Amsterdam and not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr. Chairman. We have no objection to inviting the Minister, so fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u118	Mr. Chairman. I don't mind either, but we're a little unprepared. The requested documents came as Mr Wilders spoke. I didn't read them very well. I think that this cake between a mayor and the Minister of Security and Justice is worth a debate, but I think that better preparation will help. But I also have no objection to doing it now if Mr Wilders asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u119	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet sent this delegation, so I assume that the Prime Minister will act as if he had sent those apps instead of Mr Grapperhaus. But I have no objection whatsoever to Mr Grapperhaus coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u120	Mr. Chairman. I think it would be good for the speed of the debate if this cabinet were simply to give an answer. If further questions remain, I have no objection to them either, but I would first like to know whether the cabinet cannot simply answer all the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u121	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is strongly represented here with three people, and that seems to me to be more than enough. So no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u122	Mr. Chairman. We have no objection if the Minister of Security and Justice comes here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u123	Mr. Chairman. Personally, I would be happy to speak with this delegation of the cabinet first. If there is a need to talk about it further, then rather at a later time than now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u124	I would also like the Minister to be present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u125	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join Mr Van der Staaij's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u126	Mr President, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u127	I agree with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u128	Then I see there is no majority, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u129	Mr. Chairman. I don't think that's clear. The outcome is not clear, nor is it satisfactory. I want to have a roll-call vote on this now. That's an order proposal. The fifth paragraph of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure says that we can do it now if there is a quorum, otherwise you will have to suspend or close the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u130	We are going to see if we have a quorum, and depending on that there will be a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u132	Mr President, I understand through you that it is complicated to get the Minister here for later in the evening, after dinner break. I propose that my request for a roll-call vote be withdrawn, provided that next week we do not care what day we have a separate debate with the Minister of Justice and Security. I understand that there is a reasonable consensus on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u133	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u134	Yeah, you can say something, but don't make it too complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u135	No, no, no, I'm trying to help. What we could do is that the three of us answer the questions, then we take the dinner break and then Grapperhaus is present in the first term of the cabinet after dinner break. He can then study the Acts, be updated by us and be present in the first term of the cabinet. He can be here from 5:45 p.m. to be updated and then can answer after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u136	If that is the case, then that is fine, but then I would like to wait for the debate until he arrives. I don't want to have a debate with the Prime Minister or other ministers before he gets there. So my proposal is: either we start immediately in the presence of the Minister of Justice or I think that is fine, and I think we have just agreed that we will have a separate debate with the Minister next week and start right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u137	Maybe it's better to wait until after dinner break, because it's also weird if this whole point sticks until next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u138	So then we wait...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u139	Then my proposal is to wait until after dinner break and then start with Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u140	Okay. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u141	Yeah, that's fine, too. Then we start the debate when Mr. Grapperhaus and the rest of the ministers arrive. What is more, it is without prejudice to the fact that, in addition to the Minister of Justice, we can also ask the Prime Minister questions about this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u142	Okay. Then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u143	Mr President, you want to make haste, but I have a proposal to make. We can also have the VWS Minister answer the questions first, because they have nothing to do with the situation on Dam Square, the Prime Minister or Grapperhaus. These questions concern slaughterhouses, mink and other matters raised by the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u144	There has been mutual contact and there is agreement that we should now suspend until 6.30 p.m. Then the Minister of Justice will be present at the debate and we can just move on. I notice you have a new proposal now, Mr. Kuzu, but I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good proposal from Mrs Ouwehand that the VWS Minister should first answer the questions and do the point about Dam and the Mayor in the presence of the Minister for Justice and Security. That's fine. Moving on now saves an hour and a quarter of an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u146	And I can also do the questions that aren't about Amsterdam. I also have questions about economics and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u147	I must intervene now, unless you have a very brilliant proposal, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u148	I can't deny that. I suggest that we now do the concern, where there is no overlap with this issue, and do not do the Prime Minister, because there are questions for him on that issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u149	Is that a good idea? Yes. Okay, then we'll do that and the Prime Minister can probably go to dinner. We'll start with the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. We'll wait a little longer. I give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport for the main points. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u150	Always, Mr. Chairman. Just the main lines! I would be the first to answer the questions about nursing homes and other vulnerable groups. Then test it, BCO et cetera. Then there are the vaccines, then the mink, then the slaughterhouses and then a number of other questions. I guess I'll have had it all by then. A number of questions have been asked that affect nursing care. I agree with everyone who says that the measures we have had to take for nursing care are perhaps among the toughest measures we have had to take so far. Of course it was necessary to set up the visitation regime, the visit ban, but it was also extremely hard for everyone who had had to deal with it. You will notice that we are gradually taking steps to relax the rules. That's what I said last time. This applies to nursing care, but also to disability care. In nursing care, of course, we do this very carefully, because we have seen how vulnerable the people in the nursing homes are. But in relaxing, it is also important that institutions, together with residents and their neighbors, see what is possible. The caution and the fear are in the nursing homes. Still, it's important to see what can be done. That is why we have said, on the suggestion of your Chamber, that we would also make a roadmap for care in what can be gradually restored. That was Mr Asscher's motion from two debates ago, which was adopted in Parliament. We've taken those steps together. It is important to repeat these steps, because then it is clear what can already be done. From May 25th onwards we have practiced ahead all locations, provided the conditions are met, can allow one permanent visitor per inhabitant. As of 15 June, all locations must apply the relaxed visitor scheme with one permanent visitor. I think that is important to underline. Now they have to, and soon they will have to, because residents must be able to get visitors again. You can't keep waiting endlessly in caution. Of course, it has to be justified. The contamination must be gone. From 15 June it is also possible to allow several visitors. We discussed this with the industry organisations. There must have been two weeks before you practiced with one visitor per inhabitant, but then it is again possible to allow multiple visitors per inhabitant. It is important to invest in communication. This requires customization per location. Some of you have underlined this. I think that is quite right. ActiZ, Alzheimer Nederland, het LOC, NIP, Firenzo, V&VN, Zorgthuisnl have made good practical tools for the application of the relaxed visitor scheme. With this, all healthcare providers can really take on that communication. The general advice of the RIVM to prevent contamination is all about that. I believe that this has struck an important balance between the human and personal side of care on the one hand and the caution and caution that everyone wants to exercise with vulnerable residents in nursing home care on the other. The relaxation applies not only to residents in nursing home care. Steps have also been taken in disability care. The big difference is that it was never agreed with the cabinet that the visitation arrangements should be applied there. That has never been made mandatory by the cabinet. That's what they did to themselves. The compulsory visitation scheme and the actual ban from the cabinet took place only in the nursing home care sector. So for disability care it works something else. From 25 May onwards, we will be discussing the relaxation of the visitation arrangements. The general visitor policy is developed locally, because there is a greater diversity among residents. There are different groups within disability care. On 15 June, every resident must be able to visit again, within the guidelines of the RIVM. There, of course, we need tailor-made work. We monitor very well how that goes and we also see what the lessons we can learn from it. Then it's about spending the day. A daily spending directive has been put in place for vulnerable elderly people. It's adapted to the new circumstances. VGN has set up a hand delivery service with client organisations for people with disabilities for disabled services providers. The practice still gives a slightly variable picture. We had actually agreed that it should be settled for everyone again from 1 June, but we see that there are some troubles with those 1.5 meters. How do you do that? So the daily spending is starting to get back on track, but not at the rate we want to get together. There will be more intensive communication and monitoring of how we do it. I think it's good to have said that in advance. Then I come to a number of questions that you have asked. You're right to say that we should want to learn lessons from nursing care for a possible second wave. So let me add: a possible second wave. Let's not assume it's going to happen, but it could happen. Of course we have to be prepared for that. The virus is among us. With the government's control strategy, we think we can get to a second wave much sooner than at the first wave. We can't let him surprise us. I'll be right back to how we do that and how we send it. But it is possible that there will be a second wave and then of course you want to stand for it in a different way. What we do is that we actually learn those lessons from practice. Let me take you into what we do before that. Several groups have asked questions about how we learn lessons from practice. The academic workshops, which are partnerships of universities and nursing homes, keep crisis journals with nursing homes, in which they properly record and classify the workfloor experiences of the last few months, so that they can actually learn from them. The diaries are about the well-being of residents, protective equipment, testing, caregivers, dealing with relatives, dealing with the visitation scheme, so everything that happens in daily implementation practice. There are now six academic workshops with different locations. That's very important. Every week, these academic workshops go through the crisis diaries and produce a summary report that is sent to both ActiZ and Verenso and VWS. The information from these diaries will be validated in the coming weeks, so that new insights and tools will become available and you will also learn the real general lessons. I think that's important. In addition, we keep the finger on the wrist through the GGDs. They monitor the infections and the outbreaks. Of course, I speak to the G.D.D.'s very regularly. What I see is that they're operating very, very outbreak-oriented. So if in a nursing home there's a serious outbreak, then the G.D.D. is on top of it. For example, I'm going to a nursing home in Dordt, The Parkhouse, where that outbreak is still very strong. You learn from that too: what works in practice and what is good to do? In addition, there is the collaboration between the academic workshops and the GGDs, the care networks antibiotic resistance, ActiZ and Dignity and pride, where we really support on site. In this collaboration I try to bring all field knowledge together and translate it into a support offer for locations of nursing homes themselves. Then we have the investigation of Bianca Neighbor, the Chief Nursing Officer. She's investigating how an infection goes in a nursing home. At the moment, the number of infections in the nursing homes that she has now studied is just not enough to reach real conclusions. However, it is important that this investigation be continued. A fourth nursing home is added in order to do that research in a good way. I'm not even complete on this yet, but why do I mention all this? Because I think it is important to outline that we need to translate the lessons of the past few weeks into guidelines for tomorrow's practice. That doesn't have to wait for a second outbreak. Not at all. Let's try to avoid that second outbreak together. And let's kick that fire out quick when we see it popping up again. So it's important to learn those lessons. You could say: learning to evaluate. That's what we do there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u151	Is this the subject of nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u152	I have a few more specific questions. Mr Krol asks whether I can now clearly state the rules for nursing homes that are advice. For the nursing homes the visitation scheme has really been a clue and therefore no advice. I think it is important to continue to underline this. By the way, the designation now offers much more scope than at first, because there is no more ban on visits. However, there is still the possibility for directors of nursing homes to keep visitors to the visitation rules that apply there. Mr Krol asked why the relaxation of the visitor scheme did not take effect until 15 June and not immediately. Well, you have to make sure nursing homes are well prepared. On the one hand we naturally have relatives who want to see their father, mother, sister and so on again. That's very understandable. Makes perfect sense. On the other hand, we also have staff who are still frightened. You'll be happy to meet those people, too. It's gotta be possible. So we're giving nursing homes the room to prepare. I'd like that. Shall I finish all the questions about nursing homes right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u154	The latest insights on the effects of ventilation were asked. Mrs Van den Berg asked if the cabinet would ask the OMT for advice. The OMT has already advised on the role of ventilation systems. That was discussed in the OMT of May 15th. That advice was shared with you on May 20th. I quote the OMT opinion: "The OMT has examined the currently available information on the role of ventilation systems in the distribution. The OMT argues that based on current scientific knowledge, there is insufficient evidence that aerogenic transmission plays a role in the dissemination. The conclusion is that the role of ventilation systems in the distribution has not yet been fully clarified, but it does not appear to have played an important role in the epidemic and therefore there is no reason to change the current policy." That's the state of mind there for now. Mr Van der Staaij asked about aftercare for care workers. There are a number of initiatives. I've pointed out strong in your work before. Then there is an initiative where care professionals for psychosocial support can always contact ARQ IVP. Finally, from 20 May, all people with psychosocial questions can contact the digital Information and Reference Centre of the RIVM. That was announced last week. I think I've had the most important questions in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u155	Then I have Mrs Van Brenk, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Asscher, Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Van den Berg, Mr Van der Staaij. I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u156	Two questions. The first is very specific about information. The Minister has already mentioned that. We understand you have vulnerable people at nursing homes. But we also keep getting questions from vital 70s. They ask: do the same rules apply to me? Can we have a clearer and better communication there? What can be done for one group and perhaps not for the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u157	I know that for a fact. There's a lot of questions. What can we do now? We are working very well with older people's organisations to highlight this as well as possible. Of course, you want people to know what they're up to. We do this on our own website, reichsoverheid.nl. We do that through the elderly organisations. We try to highlight that communication as best we can and communicate as clearly as possible what is possible. There's been some confusion for a while. We tried to fix that again. I think since last week it's clear what we can do again. Actually, it's very simple: use your common sense, but be careful. Then there can actually be a lot. That's the simple summary of what we can do again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u158	I also welcomed the Minister's explanation of what we are all doing to prevent the second wave. There's a lot of research going on. Is this perhaps also the answer to our question about the signs that care workers who have not worked in a covid department and have nevertheless become infected? Is there anything that might come out of these investigations that's remarkable? This was striking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u159	I don't recognize that myself, but that could come out in itself in the investigation of Bianca Neighbor and associates. This is about how the distribution is carried out in nursing homes. How's that going? What are the promotional factors in this? What are the factors that help to slow down the spread? It's in there. This, in itself, could come out in that, but I do not know whether that conclusion can be drawn. I've never heard it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u160	Can I then ask whether the Minister would at least pay particular attention to this, so that we can have a concrete answer to it in due course?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u161	Sure, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u162	Thank you to the Minister for his introduction to the nursing homes. I have mentioned in my contribution that I get a lot of e-mails. Those are also many distressing e-mails, from people who visit their loved ones and can enter into conversation under the supervision of a staff member. There's no privacy. If they don't want that, they have to stay outside, stand behind a fence and scream a little at their loved one remotely. It's all so sad. I know there are nursing homes where things are different. Honestly, there are also nursing homes where nothing can happen and the doors are still closed. However, there are also nursing homes that give responsibility to the resident and the loved ones on the basis of trust. Those are the examples for me. If we take steps again on 15 June, how do we ensure that all these nursing homes work according to these fine examples, so that we really get the humanity back in the nursing home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u163	I know what you're saying. I'm getting those e-mails, too. I see the examples I think: oh guys, can't it be otherwise? Of course I see them, but I also see a lot of nursing homes that are actually doing very well. You'll see it, of course. These nursing homes know very well how to combine caution and caution on the one hand, which is very logical, and humanity on the other. That's what's needed. I just heard someone say: unfortunately, because of that nasty virus, we were thrown back into time with nursing care years ago. We're back in that medical model way too much. Actually, it is. For years we have talked about the Quality Framework and how it should be introduced into nursing homes, particularly the welfare side of nursing home care and quality of life. There was less emphasis on that medical model and more emphasis on normal life in such a nursing home. That normal life is so badly under pressure from the measures we have had to take. It was necessary, but it was also heartbreaking. In Mrs Dik-Faber's view, I very much recognise the will to make these good examples guiding. That's what's gonna happen. I see that the Brache organization is very much working on this. I see that the academic workshops, which I have just mentioned, show these lessons very clearly; what is there to learn? That is more about the hygiene side. What is there to learn on the hygiene side, especially in combination with the human, personal care side, which also belongs in the nursing homes? I see those lessons are being learned. I'm saying it's going to be a step in the right direction. It is not possible from one day to the next, also because the contamination is not everywhere far enough behind to make that possible again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u164	I would very much like to see dialogue between nursing homes promoted. I see that there are very good examples, where safety is guaranteed, and humanity is at the heart of the matter. My next question is as follows. I would like people to be confronted with measures from the nursing home, to which they have to abide, with the dialogue with the resident, the neighbors and the doctor. I would like not only to have a tailor-made solution per nursing home, but also, so to speak, per resident. One resident is not the other. Are those calls being made? I have a feeling that's not the case. Maybe that's true in some nursing homes. The e-mails I receive show that people are actually confronted with rules that they have to abide by, where dialogue is almost impossible. I am sorry to have to bring it in, because I am sure there are a lot of good examples as well. However, I hear a little too often that things are just not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u165	The hand-out really gives us some clues to conduct that dialogue. I can see that's what's gonna happen. I think that in some nursing homes there is the limitation that people say: we cannot do anything else for everyone, because our staff are not equipped; we simply do not get staffed. However, the hand-out certainly helps to have that conversation with relatives. I very much agree with your plea. I think that when we discuss it with the nursing home sector, that sector will also say: yes, of course, we agree with that. That doesn't mean it's gonna be arranged at every location tomorrow. That's just the reality of things. A nursing home sector with 2,400 locations can't be controlled by a fingernip; that's not how it works. But I very much agree with you and I am doing my best to convey it right now, to draw those lessons, to articulate them and to ensure that they are available to others and that they are also translated into support offerings, for example through Dignity and pride.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u166	I shall go to Mr Asscher, then to Mrs Marijnissen and then to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u167	I'm positive about what the minister says, that he's trying to learn the lessons around those nursing homes. I think that is important in such an extreme crisis, because I think we should also note that it has not gone well in many places. My question has also been raised in the debate: would it not be useful to have a look outside, not just around nursing homes, but wider, so that by the time the flu season starts again, we can get even better bogged down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u168	A look from the outside, I'm sure. It depends on what you call "outside," but of course there are also a lot of experts involved in this nursing home sector. I just mentioned a number of parties involved in picking up those lessons and translating them. For example, universities are involved. And that look on the outside, of course, helps a lot. That look on the outside helps. It is only when it comes to an evaluation that a number of questions have been asked about it that I think that this is something you should do with a somewhat greater distance from what has happened. I think that our first focus now should be on learning from the practice of the past few months and translate that into how it can be better over the next few months, should that second wave indeed arrive. So we want to learn these lessons as best we can. It is true that experts from outside are involved in this. I think you should. For the evaluation, I would like to focus in particular on the OVV, which will also evaluate the actual crisis approach from the cabinet in the light of our request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u169	I do not mean such a top-heavy evaluation with a whole parliamentary debate. It's something else I'm interested in, and I tasted it with D66 and with the SP. I am concerned that, while we are a little less urgent, the crisis meetings are being organised differently, there is a lot of work being done by you, by many and by the GGDs to make sure that it comes under control, using that moment to have the Netherlands watched from the outside as well. What was good and what could be better? I am therefore more concerned with getting the tips and the tops, so that we can continue in the autumn. Yeah, I'll bring it as positive as I can. I think you should want to. I think you're also embracing that look from the outside when you say, "Oh, we're in a crisis here; the counter is at 100 billion and there are huge effects."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u170	Let me take up a number of evaluative questions, because, as you say now, it is evaluative of the approach or policy that has been taken. I'd like to take these two apart. First of all, I think that was also my answer to questions about nursing home care that we have lessons to learn from day-to-day practice for nursing home workers, for residents and their neighbors over the past few months. We can get better with each other, and we can learn from that for the next few months. You gotta want to keep that second wave from coming, but he could get there, so you gotta want to learn from it. Those are just the lessons from practice. Secondly, we would like to take lessons together on the measures. What measure has had the greatest effect in recent months? I just heard Mr Veldman make a suggestion about this: you have to want to know what has had the most effect, in case you have to take action again. Was it just that handshaking or was it just closing the terraces? What has had the most effect? That is more at measure level. I'm willing to do that, even if it's not done tomorrow. But it is a qualitative explanation of it. Because you're never gonna achieve a quantitative explanation of that. After all, we have seen that the result of the last few weeks has been achieved by the reduction of all kinds of contact. That is the result, and what has led to this is that intelligent lockdown and all the measures that are associated with it. This cannot be broken down by individual measure. But I would like to give a more qualitative explanation of that. Perhaps that is in line with your request. In addition, of course, we develop that dashboard, which makes it possible to make much more insightful at which revival of the virus you have to brake again. It also shows when what you do is regional and when it's national. That's more like that dashboard. I hope, by the way, to come up with a trial version as soon as possible. Then you can see what that looks like. This is very accessible, understandable and understandable to everyone. Finally, we are talking about a genuine assessment of the crisis approach. We've asked the OVV to do that for us. That's not what you're talking about. This also takes a lot more time, and also distance from the past few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u171	Finally. I think that the Minister's response could be positive and should actually be positive. Don't forget: in such an extreme crisis I think we all understand that. You're in a tunnel and you need to know to the best of the experts, but with 5% of the information, make decisions. I think it would be wise, and so should you as a strong driver, to say: at the stage in which we are now, I also want people from outside to look at that. Not as a final evaluation and not if we know everything, but: are there lessons that we can learn now, that may not come up by themselves? That's what I'd like to do. Then we'll figure it out. I do not want to traverse all the positive processes that are already going on, but I do think it is necessary and it would also be effective if we were to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u172	In my view, I have just outlined a number of ways in which I would like to respond to this, in any case within the nursing home sector itself, by learning lessons from practice. That's one step. In addition, it is really possible to look back at what has had the most effect in reducing the virus in recent times. Of course, that's a lesson you have to learn. It is indeed good to involve a number of people from outside in taking that lesson. The dashboard gives you an insight into how to steer. For the real evaluation, as I just said, you really need to take a little more distance. It just takes time. That's an extremely big job. I am glad that the OVV wants to do that, because it is a lot of work to do that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u173	"A silent disaster," it was certainly called at the beginning of the outbreak in the nursing homes. Fortunately, it's not quiet anymore, because we all see it now. Meanwhile, the numerator of the number of people who died is 2,700, I believe. There have been a lot of infections, of course there have been great problems with the protective devices, lack of tests, etc. We believe that it is indeed very wise to use the coming period to draw lessons. The question is, how can you do it the best way? We are also very much in favour of involving people from outside with a critical look, but also the people from the workplace. I still miss that a little bit in the approach outlined. I hear, when it comes to drawing lessons, a lot about exactly what the virus does and about hygiene, but we are also really talking about: what can we learn from the workplace? These people have seen the disaster in full force or are still in the middle of it. So we think it is very important that the lessons of those people should be fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u174	I couldn't agree more. I have also heard Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Diertens. The lessons of practice are the most important. I never called it "silent disaster" myself, because it has never been quiet for us. From day one, we've had very intensive contact with all the nursing homes, calling from the department, calling from the inspection, making sure you're there and that you know what's going on. It certainly hasn't been quiet. It is indeed very good to learn lessons for the day of tomorrow and for the other location precisely from the experienced lessons in practice in one location. Right from the point of view of practice, so I would very much like to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u175	I do not agree with the Minister that it was not a silent disaster. At least, a lot of people who work in nursing homes have experienced this quite differently. Especially in the first phase of the outbreak, the eyes were very focused on the ic-capacity, also here. We have also very quickly called here about the lack of protective equipment, for example. It is clear that nursing homes have come into the picture too late when it comes to the distribution of protective equipment and that this has led to very serious and poignant problems. So I don't think it's right for the Minister here to say, "Well, it wasn't a silent disaster for us; we were all pretty good at it," because I think there should have been and could have been intervention much earlier. That just didn't happen, so I'm not okay with the Minister saying that. I would like to stress that drawing these lessons is also so important to us, because the scale of the disaster in nursing homes has been so excessive and the impact of the virus has been so great that it is very good not only to look at the medical part, "what does the virus do?', but also to the more political part. And we should also look at the good examples, for example nursing homes that have been able to find creative ways to allow visitors. Can we share it quickly and can we make sure that, in the event of a second outbreak, we hope not all nursing homes can make use of it? That's what we're talking about. That needs to be taken with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u176	Yeah, but that's gonna turn it into a real evaluation. I don't use the word "quiet." The word 'disaster' is, of course, very appropriate, but it has not been quiet. It may not have been enough here in the debates, but of course we are doing the debates and what they are about with each other. What matters is whether there has been contact or whether it has been made clear from the nursing homes they ran into. Did we talk about that? My point is that we have certainly been in touch about this. The question of whether we have done the right thing at the right time is really an evaluative question that is part of the evaluation we are asking the OVV. That is the question of whether the policy has been the right one at the right time. The Prime Minister has often said that it clearly shows that it was often too short, often too long, often too early, often too late, and that if it was already on time, it was probably too much or too little. Of course it will prove that mistakes have been made. Things will come out that haven't gone well and that you would have liked to have done better. That makes sense. That's really part of an evaluation, with a really adequate review, but you can only do that if you have enough distance and if you take enough time to do that evaluation in a good way. I have understood your question, at least the questions put by Mrs Dik-Faber, Mrs Diertens and Mr Veldman, in a different way, and also Mr Asscher's questions, namely how we can translate the lessons of the past few months into an improved implementation practice in the next wave. Well, let's learn those lessons. That's what you can do in the short term. For the policy-evaluative question you really need more time and distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u177	I had two questions for the Minister. I'd like to come back to the fans first. The Minister says that this was stated in the OMT opinion of 20 May and that for the time being the conclusion is that they have no effect. But in the RIVM's own document of 18 May it says that it has not yet been clarified, but that it does not seem to have played a role for the time being. I think that is a little less definite than what the Minister says: it does not give any effect. I asked a question about it this morning in the technical briefing and then Mr Van Dissel said, for example, that swivel fans, to name but one detail, can have a very negative effect, so it is precisely that they cause more spread. The balancing framework for indoor sports also clearly mentions the importance of ventilation. What we are now asking the Minister to do in the next letter is to go into more detail about whether ventilation helps or whether it can also have a negative effect with the wrong equipment, so that there are good instructions for the second wave for both employers and citizens on how to deal with it. Because many houses also have air conditioning systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u178	Let me take your question and come back to it in more detail in the next letter, otherwise I will have to present an exposé on aerosol distribution and I think the President will say: well, maybe you can keep it a little shorter. Let me just say briefly that I will return to it in a more detailed way in another letter. I will ask whether the OMT or the RIVM now has new insights on this point, whether they also have new insights from international research on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u179	They just talked about nursing homes. The category that is often overlooked in nursing homes and in institutions for disabled people are those who live independently but on the premises or who use the central entrance to the nursing home. There are 90-year-olds living on their own who still cook and do everything themselves, and they have now been affected by all these measures. In fact, I would like to draw attention to this particular category and ask whether the Minister who brings it into all the discussions, including for the future, will take it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u180	Yes. You're damn right I didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u181	Thank you for the commitment to Mrs van den Berg on ventilation, because I think it can also be very practical, regardless of the scientific discussion on aerosols: clear advice on exactly what is going on if you just want ventilation to reduce risks. What are you doing right? In practice, sometimes questions arise as if it is better to turn off the air conditioning and open the windows, just very practical points in which a piece of advice can be helpful. So thank you for that commitment. I also asked a question about communication. You can see a little bit coming up with these visitor arrangements that will be said later: we will soon be able to go back to the care center together. I am afraid that there will also be disappointment, where for all kinds of organizational reasons the visitation schedule cannot be easily adapted. So what can the Minister actually contribute to that expectations management in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u182	In fact, Mr Asscher's motion was intended for that at the time, I think. That road map was there precisely because it was so difficult to communicate what could happen from what time. That is so difficult, given the lack of clarity and given the customization that is needed at every location, because every location is a bit different. That's why we said we can have the weather from the 25th. From the 25th onwards, locations are allowed to open their doors again for one visitor. They report that to the GGD and they must of course be free of infection. From 15 June they must do so, of course again: if they are free from contamination. You're hoping that by then most locations will really be free of contamination. If they are, then they have to. We have also added: we are going to bring this forward from 15 June. So multiple visitors is also possible if you first "have practiced" with one visitor for a while. We are trying to carry out this road map, of course through the institutions. And let's be sober: most relatives of course don't necessarily look at the government site. Most relatives, of course, just have the conversation with their nursing home location. They're gonna hear about the nursing home location. I think Mr Van der Staaij is right to say that you should be careful not to create false expectations, because that only leads to even more disappointment. But it's also good to offer a little guidance. I say this for the reason I understood Mrs Dik-Faber's: there can actually be much more than you often see in practice. I hear nursing home residents say, "Why can't I go out anymore?" Of course you can. Of course you have to be a bit careful, that's all true, but residents can of course go outside. Why don't you talk to that nursing home location about it? But there can often be much more than what is used. And that's what we're trying to bring to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u183	What the Minister says, I can totally follow. But one point remains: what are legitimate reasons for saying at nursing homes: not all at once? Nursing homes should be open to multiple visitors by 15 June. People can say, also on the basis of the very clear information, yes, but I really understood from the general information that you must let me in now. I would be very sorry for all those involved if that would lead to a great deal of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u184	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u185	Let the Minister clarify this, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u186	I understand, and you're not the only one who asked that question. Here's what I'm gonna do. A hand-out has been made with industry organisations, but also with client organisations. I think it is good to have the conversation with them on the basis of that hand-picking as well about what else could happen in communication so that this is really clear to everyone. Let me have that conversation with them, see if we can do more to make that communication as clear and clear as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u187	From mid-March, we launched a massive cannon with measures to control that virus somewhat. The Minister has just spoken about the "wider evaluation." I agree with him that you should do that if you have a little more distance, so if we're any further in time and maybe just look back instead of being in the middle of it. Then we have to look: what went well, what didn't go well and what didn't go well? I also understand that the Minister says: I cannot go into each measure individually to see how or what, because it is, of course, a combination of measures that have an effect. But, we can't rule out the need to take another step back soon. Then, of course, it is nice if we have learned something from the steps we have taken, which we can then apply to the new context that then exists. Let me give you an example. We've decided to close down the catering business immediately. The Prime Minister gave a press conference and half an hour later the catering business closed. Now we know and we see that the catering industry has adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u188	So, your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u189	There are walkways, there are screens, so the context is different. This means that you may have to apply measures differently. This also means that we must learn: what is the situation now and what is the profit from it, for health and for social impact?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u190	But what is your question, Mr. Veldman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u191	My question to the Minister is whether he would like to take that kind of lessons and take that kind of steps, so that, in the event of a second wave, if we have to take a step back, we know what the best measure is and not have to fire a cannon again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u192	Actually, I just said that. That's the kind of lessons we could learn. But let's assume that's a qualitative explanation. It will be really difficult for each measure to indicate exactly what the contribution that measure has made to slowing down the virus. It will not be that way, so it will be a qualitative explanation: what has brought us the most effect? And it will be in the context of how we would like to steer in the future. You know that we had the debate last time about the dashboard and how you would like to intervene regionally. That's what we're developing right now. Maybe I can read your question as follows. We are trying to draw the lessons of the past few weeks and months in view of the question of what has been most effective and what you could retrieve from the closet when that virus starts poking up again. We place that in the context of a truly changing and changing practice, but also in the context of the way you would like to steer, namely close to the region, so that you can kick out that fire as close to home as possible when it starts to wink. That's what you want, so that as little as possible you really have to take very drastic measures. They were necessary, but of course they were blunt, occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u193	That's exactly the lecture I'm giving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u194	Yes, please. Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u195	You are working on one subject for almost 40 minutes and you have a whole list of subjects, so I would ask you to deal specifically with the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u196	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll continue the tests and the source and contact research. How'd it go with the start of testing for everyone? Let me begin by complimenting the health services for their lives, because they really have a crucial role to play in every area of dealing with the crisis, actually from the start of the crisis. I have heard a number of critical questions; that is without doubt right and I will be happy to deal with them later, but I think it is important to underline what an incredible top performance GGD's deliver. Every time, they work practically, with their sleeves popped up, on all the complex questions we ask them and on the complex implementation practice that comes before them. One has started with the low-threshold testing for everyone. That was what I had announced in the first days of the year, of course, a number of childhood diseases. Now the GGD is very good at childhood diseases, because that's what they're for, so they're gonna be dissolved in a couple of days. The first day they got over 300,000 calls, mind you. Yes, that went wrong for a while, not only on the GGD side, but at all, with the telecom providers. So yes, that was a bit of a whiff, but by now 29,000 test appointments have been scheduled and that actually goes like a spear. I've been watching a number of times, and that's actually going like a spear. So I have the feeling that they'll actually be able to control that very quickly. The essence of the question is of course: how will this test and the source and contact research help us in our control strategy? That is the crux of the question. I think that is also the question from Asscher, Mrs Diertens and Mr Veldman. I recognize that, too. In the previous letter I indicated that testing at the beginning of the crisis had more of a diagnostic background. Because you need to know what to do medically. That's why you need to know if someone's infected or not. That is why we focus on vulnerable people in particular. That was then. As I pointed out in that letter, testing now has a completely different background. That diagnostic background remains, of course, but there is also another background, namely that the test is part of our control strategy. You have to want to know where that fire is picking up again, so you can kick it out. That's what you want. That's what you want to know. That's why you need to test everyone and that's why you need to make sure that the time between the infection and the start of the source and contact research is as short as possible. It's just taking too long now. So my commitment is to shorten that time. Now Mr Veldman's question is what kind of standard would be appropriate. I think it's good to be exactly in that. The bet is now: if you call, you'll have an appointment within a day. Sometimes that's the same day, by the way, but within a day you have an appointment. Sometimes that just doesn't work, I see from a number of signals. But the stakes are: within a day an appointment. Then you have the results within a day and can start the source and contact research. That's the norm now. But the real question is about the period of infection until the start of the source and contact research. It should be as short as possible. So we have more to do than just shorten the time of the test, or the appointment, to the source and contact research. We actually have time to shorten from infection to the start of the source and contact research. I'd like to talk to the GGD's and with the RIVM about how we can get it as short as possible and how we can steer it as best we can. I'll add a few things. I'd like to have the conversation with them to see what's possible. I want to hear them good at that, too. The second is that the GGD doesn't control everything either. If someone says they want to be tested, but they can't do it that afternoon, but they can't do it until the day after tomorrow, it's not due to the GGD. If a laboratory says, "I'm sorry, I have to cut off a sample stream, I just need to use another laboratory," then you can't blame it on the GGD. We need to think carefully about where we're putting that performance obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u197	You will have the floor in a moment, Mr. Veldman, but I would like to know if you have answered all the questions about tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u198	No, of course not. There are many more. This was the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u199	Then I suggest you answer them all and then you get the floor, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u200	Let's see how I can put that together a little bit. Who supervises it and how does the Chamber get more insight into how that source and contact research goes? Surveillance is simple. That is simply because of the inspection, because the IGD is a health care institution under the supervision of the IGJ, with professional directives to which they must comply, namely the BCO Directive. There has never been so much interest in these directives, which have been in existence for a long time and are, moreover, being amended. The inspection has been monitoring this for years and years. I think it's even more important how we get a look at where that virus is getting worse. How do we use the source and contact research to further enhance that understanding? We'll do that on the dashboard. Again, I hope to be able to present a trial version of that as soon as possible. In this you will see the test results by age cohort, even broken down by region. That's gonna be insightful. The RIVM is going to develop a signal value per 100,000 inhabitants, but then we need to be in operation for a few weeks with testing everyone from when you're worried about picking up the virus again. That's one of the steering indicators in that dashboard. Another point is, and with this I would like to respond more to Mrs Marijnissen's question, that you also need to know what comes out of these source and contact studies. How many contacts do you have in the picture? Any luck reaching them? That's less easy to normalize, so it's less easy to formulate a signal value, but you need to know. That is also one of the supporting indicators in that dashboard. That part hasn't been developed for a while, and that's going to take a while, but that's how we try to increase our understanding for everyone. I think that's important and that's part of it. We are all dealing with the measures we need to take. We all need to understand why the measures we are taking are necessary. Well, Mr. Chairman, I'll surprise you: I think I'm through this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u201	I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u202	Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u203	Okay. Mr Veldman for a brief question and then Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u204	I agree with the Minister that there is, of course, a responsibility for those who are flu-like, who are ill, to report quickly for such a test. So that also requires some communication. The culture in the Netherlands might be a bit of a "well, we'll look at it a little bit, maybe it'll sink away again." That calls for good communication. I'm assuming it's starting. But from the moment of testing, and that's my second point, it takes up to 48 hours before the result is known. The Minister states that you should actually set a new standard. Mr Van Dissel of the RIVM set a clear standard this morning during the technical briefing, namely: within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u205	And the question is, do we have to do it in 24 hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u206	Does the Minister agree that this should be the norm?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u207	That's what I just said. I just said that we would not want to leave more than 24 hours between the test and the results. That is what we are trying to achieve. There's a lot of work being done to do that. But it's the whole route between infection and the start of the source and contact research. So it's not just about the period between test and rash. That might be the simplest thing in the whole row, you could say. It's about the whole route. You make an appointment and within a day you should be able to reach the test street. If the test has been conducted, the source and contact study shall be started, based on the test results. The latter indeed lasts a day, but Van Dissel does not say anything other than what I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u208	We agree on that intermediate point, the test results should just be there in 24 hours. That is not the case at the moment. Also once someone has to report quickly, but that calls for communication. But then we're not there yet, because when the test results arrive, the contact examination must also start immediately. The three steps must therefore be: communication, quick results of the results and quick start of the contact investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u209	So what I'm doing right now is having a conversation with the GGD about that. How could we normalize that? How could we make an agreement on that? But I do like to hang out with them. I don't think it's okay to make an order from "that's how you're gonna set up your work process." They've been doing it for years, and they've been incredibly experienced. So let's do it together for a while. I'd like to talk to them, too, to see if we can shorten it. But again, I keep saying that it's about the moment of infection until the moment of the source and contact investigation. After all, that is the period that you want to shorten very much, for very many reasons, partly because of the rapid response to a revival of the virus. To this end, the tests are currently being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u210	The Minister rightly says that it is important to shorten the time between the observation that someone is not feeling well and making an appointment. If I think in the course of the day "this is not going well" and call for an appointment, I can reach one GGD so to speak until 8 p.m. in the evening, while another GGD can only reach me during office hours. I am surprised that there is a difference, but if I can only get there during office hours, there is a good chance that another day will be lost before that test can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u211	Let me just say in response why that is. The deal is, if you're sick, you stay home and get tested. Also during office hours you just have time to get tested. I think we should be a little more strict about that, too, because we can't all look at the GGDs like they're going to solve that corona crisis for us. We're gonna have to do the same thing with each other. That means the mores must be: if you are ill, you stay home and get tested. You don't go to work at all, so during office hours you have plenty of time to go to the G.D.D. For example, we see now that people with complaints call, that the GGD then says "fine, you can go this afternoon" and that those people say: no, I can't this afternoon; I can tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You have complaints, so you have to get tested; that's how we have to deal with them. I think we should say to each other: if you have any complaints, you stay home and get tested; you have plenty of time to go to the GGD during office hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u212	Then let me take a look at the Minister's concept. Even so, the point is that I could have infected people at that time. After all, you can already infect presymptomatic humans. While I'm thinking, "I'm a kippielker," it's possible that that virus is inside me and that I've infected people. This whole source and contact research really starts a day later, even though I'm sticking to the rules at the time and I say to my employer: sorry, I'm not finishing my job and I'm going home now. Before that's confirmed, we'll be a day away. Then the source and contact research also starts a day later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u213	The bet is that if you make the appointment, you'll have the test in a day. Then the bet is that once you've done that test, you'll have the results within a day and the source and contact research will start. I want to shorten that time, because it is taking too long, as I said to Mr Veldman. The faster you get after the moment of infection, the more profit you've made. You shouldn't be too early, because if there's no complaints, you're far too likely to get a false negative result. That's no use to you either. But you certainly shouldn't be late. In case of starting complaints you must test immediately and immediately be on top of it; that is the bet. With the GGD and the laboratia, I want to see what's feasible to pull together as much as possible. That's what I want to make arrangements about. And that includes saying to people, "Oh, boy, if you have any complaints, stay home and get tested." That's why I'm reacting in your direction. So you're not going to work because that's a big deal. It used to be, but not anymore. So it's: stay home and get tested. I'd like to say that we really have to ram it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u214	I think you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u215	I have 10 interruptions in total. So I will come back to the tests, and then to the mutual help I have put forward. Last Saturday Mayor Ton Heerts in the Algemeen Dagblad said that it is best to understand that one GGD at the outbreak at the abattoirs and the St Jansdal Hospital says: I can't do that all at once. But apparently there is no help from, for example, Groningen, where there are far fewer people with complaints. That has not become clear, while at that time the mayor's statement was clear. The GGD did not have sufficient capacity at that time and could therefore apparently not develop it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u216	In this particular case, I do not know, but here too: let us begin by expressing our appreciation for the GD because it is so incredibly good at scaling it up very quickly. They can do that very well. When you call them, there's always help, also from others; that's my experience. I don't know if that's what happened in this case. I just don't know. But one must also prioritize. If you have some slaughterhouses on your cart, and you can also do a mink farm and then et cetera, and we also ask you to scale up the source and contact research and set up 80 test streets, then the GGD is a bit busy. That's exactly what's going on. That's okay at all, because the G.D.D. likes to do that. I do understand that it can be a bit busy occasionally and that you have to prioritize and scale up. What we need to ensure is that there is zero financial reason not to be scaled up. Well, we made sure of that, because we actually gave de facto carte blanche. I have also said this several times in my weekly consultation with all the directors of the GGDs. In addition, of course, we need to encourage the GGDs to learn from each other: how do you scale that up, and how do you do it flexibly? There's plenty of learning from each other. There really is a very intensive network of GGD directors. So my picture is that this collaboration is happening very well and that the scaling up is also happening very well. But that given the amount of work must also be prioritized occasionally, is of course also true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u217	Mr. Krol, you need to speak in the microphone or no one will hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u218	That's true. I said thank you, Madam President. At Sanquin, they're so eager to get to work with their tests and win blood plasma. They are extremely happy that the GGDs can now test extensively. They hoped that people who were tested positive would be given the tip: please also report to Sanquin. They wrote a letter for that. They asked whether it could be disseminated to the GGDs and whether this could be reported in a positive test. In practice, that hardly appears to be happening. That letter shall not be made available; such communication shall not be made. It would help us all. Can you please promote that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u219	I just went to visit Sanquin. My view is not that there is a shortage of plasma donors at the moment, but I will check it out. I think that this type of action is also very well done in consultation with the GGD, but I will check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u220	Today they made that request again. It's really urgent for those people. You could help a lot. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u221	If I can help, Mr. Krol, I'd be happy to, of course, say so through the chairman. Then the vaccine development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u222	Also about the source and contact research. That's right, the compliments to the G.D.D. There is a great deal of work going on, certainly, but of course this is in line with the instructions they are being given, and that is what my question is about. This has been tightened up in terms of the instructions given to people who have been in contact with someone who is infected. But my question concerns the so-called category 2 group. If I understand correctly, those are the close contacts. The instruction is that they are advised to stay at home and, if they do go outside, to keep at least 1.5 meters away. My question is: is that going far enough, is that clear enough? These are people who have been in close contact with someone infected. We are now fully committed to the source and contact research. If there's a light, we want to kick it out. Isn't it very important that this goes beyond a non-binding advice to stay at home, so that we really ask those people to stay at home and that we help them if necessary? You say we all have to do it together and we do it for each other. That's true, but let's not forget that staying home for one is a lot easier than for the other. You're only gonna have a zero-hour contract and you're gonna miss your income.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u223	That is precisely why the source and contact research directive has been amended. We have had a number of debates on this. The Source and Contact Research Directive has been brought fully into line with what is also international practice. The ECDC is the European club of RIVM's, one could say; so not to be confused with the band "RIVM' has adopted a number of international guidelines for this. Our directive is in line with that. A distinction is indeed made between different groups. I wrote that in the letter, too. A behavioral advice is indeed given for each group. That has just to do with the statistical risk of infection. You are absolutely right: staying home sounds so easy, but staying home is not easy for everyone. Sometimes that has to do with how you live at home. Well, that's what the G.D.D. can think about. For example, the GGD even helps with insulation. That's what's gonna happen. I take as an example the slaughterhouses. I know that the GGD has been working there to help people find shelter so that they can go into isolation. So that's where we're going. In addition, reminding you, is it working a little, staying at home? It is also a very important part. This has also become part of the BCO Directive. In short, the behavioral recommendations are consistent with the findings made, are consistent with the statistical probability of dissemination and are in line with international agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u224	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u225	Then it's about vaccine development. Mr Klaver has asked the right question 'what exactly is the situation?' Of course, we have a number of international obligations to fulfil. The contribution to CEPI, for example, to international vaccine development is very important. We have translated the motion by GroenLinks into support for Costa Rica's initiative for the voluntary patent pool, in a way that I think is appropriate to the role that the Netherlands has to play in the world. We do not yet have a vaccine, and that is precisely what the vaccine Alliance is about, as we have agreed with four countries. Apart from the Netherlands, these are Germany, France and Italy. We did this on purpose with them, because the four of us can reach decisions faster than the European Union as a whole. It is just as important that we have our own companies on our own soil, our own pharmaceutical companies and our own production capacity. That's important. The four of us want to make concrete agreements on the production of vaccines. We do that in such a way that we invest in the front. Where we would normally buy from the shelf, we're actually investing in the front, you might say. At the same time, we agree on establishing production capacity. If you don't, you're sure you're gonna be in the back of the line. Of course, there is also a very international game going on here, where the US, but also China, takes good care of itself, you might say. We also need to take good care of ourselves, but we do not want to do this for ourselves alone. The agreement we have made is that there is an opt-in for all the other countries in Europe. We also want to take care of Africa, vulnerable countries, because we believe that we also have a responsibility to them for the availability of vaccines. Otherwise they'll be in the back of the line. It is true that, as a world population, we are only safe when everyone is safe. So we must also ensure that countries that cannot take care of themselves can also obtain a vaccine. We believe that Europe has a responsibility in this regard. So that's the intention of our agreement. We are talking to many initiators, and we hope that this can actually lead to contractual agreements in the very short term. As soon as I do, I'll let you know. But I think Mr Klaver's comment is just right. We shall make agreements in this regard. We're gonna bet on multiple horses at the same time. That's what we want. We will make agreements in this respect, and we will not be able to say in advance what it costs. I will, of course, tell you when we have made these agreements. Nor can we always say in advance whether it actually pays off. Because you don't know if that vaccine is actually going to be the winning vaccine. That's why we're doing it this way. I'm as open to you as I can be. We are currently talking to numerous initiators of promising initiatives. We are, of course, trying to get contracts with the real frontrunners. As soon as that's done, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u226	Good. And these were all the points related to the vaccine. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u227	Well... Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u228	This sounds good. First of all, let me say that. It is very good that the Minister indicates that we are going to invest. We're gonna lose a lot of money on that. But that's what we want; that we're gonna bet on this. 'Cause we want to line up in front. That's very good. What I would like to know is what the agreements we are going to make with the pharmaceutical companies are. You're gonna have to. It cannot come from states alone; you must enter into public-private cooperation here. I understand very well that companies want to make money from that. But that must be reasonable. Are agreements also made on how high the profits these companies make? Is it also agreed that everything we invest in, and the knowledge that comes from it, is also freely accessible to others, so that the oil stain that should become that vaccine can spread around the world as quickly as possible? Is that part of the deal, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u229	We have said for ourselves: it must be affordable, it must be accessible to people and it must be made available to as large a group as possible. That is the three-step approach we ourselves are pursuing. The voluntary patent pool, as was the motion of GroenLinks, is one of the ways to do it. Another option is simply to make a contract agreement where there is a low price and where you make agreements about such huge amounts that you are also able to have others share in it. At these companies it is not always possible to make the appointment in advance: now you also have to give up your intellectual property and also have to make you fully understand how you, et cetera. If you did, a number of companies wouldn't participate. They won't sign that contract. They want to participate in something that is accessible and affordable for everyone, but they do not want to participate in making all intellectual property actually available. You have to understand that, too, I think. So we focus on an accessible, affordable and available vaccine for everyone. That's what we focus on, and that's why we're going to contract large numbers. Those numbers are going to be much larger than we might actually need strictly, because the rest of Europe will then be able to say so and because Africa might then be able to participate. That's what we're gonna do. Sometimes that runs along the path of those voluntary patent pools and sometimes along the way of simply contracting very large numbers, so that the rest can also participate. It must be available and accessible and affordable. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u230	If the price is low enough, it is accessible to everyone. Still, there's something else behind this, isn't there? In this crisis, we have seen just how important it is to share knowledge and that patents are public. I therefore hope that it is the real commitment of the cabinet to achieve this. I think that's the best guarantee that others can learn from it when they see what this vaccine does and what it looks like. This allows us to increase knowledge and that is exactly what is needed at this time. My final question, at least for now, is whether we can get a timetable from the Minister. What is this cooperation going to look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u231	This week we have completed the MoU between those four countries and with that we have an agreement with each other. We have, of course, informed the Commission so that the rest of Europe knows: these four are working on it and we can get on with it if we want to. We are already talking to a serious number of advanced initiatives. We're always looking at who's furthest from the latest scientific knowledge. We continue to share our knowledge within those four countries. We ourselves have the RIVM and that is, of course, very well informed. We share our knowledge and make sure we wager on all potentially winning horses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u232	But the time schedule?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u233	We want that as soon as possible. We want these talks to be translated into real negotiations with each other and the conclusion of contracts in the shortest possible time. That will happen in the coming weeks/months, because such a company must also be ready to sign such a contract with you. We must also be negotiated further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u234	Maybe I should have asked my question. It must have been up to me. Why am I looking for that timetable, this planning? This has to do with the fact that we will also have to invest in the Netherlands in order to increase production capacity. This has a huge opportunity, also for the future, to strengthen the bioscience in the Netherlands. So there's a strategy for that. Where are you gonna do this and which companies are you gonna work with? It's going to say something about the future of our economy. That is why I am asking about the planning, including for the Netherlands, because we will know when we will be able to amend it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u235	Once, all at once. It needs to be done as soon as possible. Such a company must be far enough away. It is also really about capturing production capacity in the Netherlands. You shouldn't want our production capacity here in the Netherlands to be captured by pack 'n bite the U.S. and then we couldn't sign it anymore. In addition, we need to create additional capacity to make sure that we actually get those huge numbers we're going to contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u236	And now the mink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u237	We shall therefore do so as soon as possible. Yes, Mr President, I just want to be able to answer the questions that are being asked. That is also a bit the idea of a debate, I always thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u238	You really did, because otherwise Mr Klaver will be here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u239	Then the mink. I saw that we are having a debate on this next week. I have also seen that we have both been invited to this, Mr Schouten and I. I think it's okay to go through all the questions in a lot of precision. I think I should recall that Mrs Ouwehand has repeatedly expressed her concern about the problem of the corona outbreak among minks, including by means of a motion. The question remains whether the clearance decision we took yesterday was taken on time. Did the potential risk to public health mean that we didn't take that decision a week earlier? Of course, that is not the case, because we have taken precautionary measures on all those mink farms. Those measures should ensure that the risk of infection is defined on that holding and that that risk of infection cannot affect other holdings either. This has to do with the ban on the transport of mink and mink manure. That has to do with the hygiene protocol. It has to do with the ban on visitors to the barn and the obligation that mink farmers should ensure as much as possible that the animals cannot leave the farm. So we've taken all kinds of measures. What we needed to know, of course, is whether there is a danger to public health. And what's the danger to public health? Not in the mere fact that it is plausible that those infections of mink have occurred on humans. It was the first time that it was actually made plausible that this mink-human contamination occurred, but it was not the biggest risk to public health. The likelihood of human-human contamination is still much greater. And that was also the driver of the pandemic. Nevertheless, if there could be any reservoir formation on such a company, you mentioned that even if..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If precisely the level of infection is very low and therefore the human-human infections are much less common, a re-introducing of the virus is a real threat to public health because the virus has been able to circulate on that farm and is not leaving. This also justifies the clearance decision. That's why we've taken that now. For this there has been no additional risk of contamination. Mr Schouten and I have taken precisely those measures which were also appropriate for the observation of that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u240	I am committed to discussing this issue in this debate, because we are trying to look at ways in which we can expand as much as possible. But as I have already argued in my contribution, you cannot do everything at once. So the cabinet maintains a number of limitations. In itself, the Chamber is willing to wear that, because we all do not want a new second wave. In this debate, however, I really address the VWS Minister to the letter that the cabinet has now sent. Yeah, we're getting rid of it. That means all animals are killed. The cabinet explicitly keeps open the possibility that these stables will come to fruition and acts only on the basis of what the Minister of LNV sees as space. The Animal Law, the animal health and welfare law, says: it is only when there is a new infection that you can clean up again. And I find that irresponsible. I think that you can't take the re-filling of those mink stables, with the risk of that, as a cabinet, if you ask the Dutch to keep us all to these corona measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u241	And the question is, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u242	I would ask the Minister, on the basis of his responsibility for public health and the weighting we have to make here, to say that we are not going to do that either. Once these farms have been disposed of, those stables must not be refilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u243	De facto it is okay, of course, because stopping mink farming in the Netherlands would be by January 2024. That's the deal that was made with the sector. That is the legally enforced agreement made with the sector. But you were also able to read in that same letter, perhaps we can discuss it with more precision next week, and that the cabinet is also investigating whether, and if so how, there could be a stopper arrangement. I understand very well what you're saying: 2024 is not very far away and then does it make sense to clean up a business first and then to complete the stable again? I'm sure that's always voluntary, if that's the way it's gonna be. We really need to see if that can be done at all and what that should cost and so on. We are investigating whether and how, but it will always be a voluntary stopper scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u244	So we're not gonna settle for that. The Chamber has adopted a motion. After the Q fever there were two important lessons from the evaluation: you have to act as a precautionary principle and the minister of VWS should be in the field of LNV...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u245	That sound came from upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u246	It's like we're being hacked here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u247	No, I'm not. Security probably forgot to turn off a radio.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u248	Let's get back to my point about the Q-fever evaluation. Two important lessons: the precautionary principle first and the VWS minister not only need a little together with the Minister of LNV to have a directing and a structure, no, it is about perseverance. This means that the VWS Minister can go beyond what LNV wants, or hide behind the law, in the interests of public health. Take the Animal Law, which says that you can only intervene if the infection has happened again. The House has said that the VWS Minister must go further and take decisions of this kind in the interests of public health. This minister can tell restaurants: we're not sure if your specific restaurant will bring with it a further spread of the coronavirus, but you're closing anyway. Then why does he not say now that if the farms are cleaned up and all the animals are killed, there can be no new mink in them now? He must be able to do that from the point of view of public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u249	First of all, I think it is right to stress that the importance of public health is at the forefront. That is how I work with Mr Schouten; that is one. Two is that the precautionary principle has been discussed. As soon as the observation had been made that there was contamination and that it was likely that this contamination also resulted in a mink-human contamination, we took the appropriate measures from the point of view of public health and the precautionary principle. The question now arises as to whether it is also legitimate to proceed with the clearance. This is also where public health is at the heart of the matter. That is why we have asked for advice from the Outbreak Management Team zoonoses and you have been able to read it. We then had coordination discussions with the sector, and that led to the clearance decision we took, with on the retina precisely the importance of public health in order to prevent the re-introducing of the virus. That is where the importance of public health lies. If there could be reservation formation, and there is a risk, then the virus could be re-introducing, and this could indeed pose a risk to public health. This is therefore a reason for disposing of contaminated farms. It's got to be infected farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u250	Last time today. In this debate in which we are talking about the limited space we have to relax, I really do not like the fact that the VWS Minister continues to defend that a mink keeper whose business has been destroyed, in which all the animals have been killed, is free to know whether he wants to go further. If another infection breaks out, we'll see about it. That is the line of the cabinet, and I find that unacceptable. This minister does intervene in all those other sectors where you were also not sure whether a particular restaurant would further spread corona. He has issued emergency regulations and instructions, he has the Public Health Act. These opportunities must also be used to prevent the repopulation of the mink houses from re-emerging and to eliminate them at the expense of taxpayers. I want him to make this clear for next week's debate. The powers that he has used to shut down other sectors must now be used to prevent the re-filling of the mink farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u251	That contradiction is not entirely correct. We have taken measures in all sectors that match the observations you make at some point in the development of the crisis. Here too, the importance of public health is paramount and we have ensured that there is a risk to public health of the mink. That risk is not enormous, especially at the stage when we first saw that risk, because at that time the risk of human-human contamination was many times greater than a mink-human contamination. Nevertheless, the risk of public health may be there, as reservoir formation is a risk for the re-introducing of the virus. This does indeed pose a risk to public health at some point. We asked the OMT if it really is and yes, it is. We are now taking measures that fit that observation and I believe that these are far-reaching measures. The removal of a company is a major measure. That is the measure we are taking. In addition, we are going to investigate whether and, if so, how a stopper scheme could do something about the observation that Mrs Ouwehand is right to make: if you fill the stable again tomorrow, that stable can at some point get infected and then you have to clean up again. That is perhaps something you do not want at all, and that is precisely why we, as a cabinet, say: we also want to consider a stopper arrangement. We have not made the mink sector completely impossible, because that date is on January 2024 and that date is the legal one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u252	Good. Then I'll go see Mrs. Diertens. At least, were you planning to interrupt? Yeah? Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u253	Perhaps the Minister will come to it, but of course it is also the same, with the perseverance and public health at number one, with the signals that have been coming from the slaughterhouses for a long time and the infections that are there. That is actually a bit in line with the discussion that has just been held. So I would also like to comment on that, because this could actually have been seen much earlier by the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u254	That's what the Minister's gonna come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u255	That's my next block. This might be a nice, smooth transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u256	Yeah, that's a nice little bridge to the next subject. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u257	Then I'll go straight to the next block: the abattoirs. I think it is appropriate to compliment Mrs Ouwehand first, because she was, at least in my direction, the first to bring up the abattoirs. I had to check with LNV first. LNV has been working on this for a long time. Based on concrete signals, RIVM, NVWA, the GGDs and the security regions have been working on this for a long time. This has led to a number of robust measures in these regions. I think that's right, too. Following the signals, the GGD vetted that location in Groenlo and you can see in the test results that the employees are heavily infected. That has some backgrounds, is our assessment. First of all, migrant workers often work there who are not all ideally housed and often not always powerful instructions. That should help you with the instructions that are valid. We were given the impression in complying with the rules that they have missed a press conference. It is really necessary for them to make an extra effort. Mr Schouten quite rightly addressed the employers. It is very intensively engaged in discussions with the sector and quite rightly addressed the employers very strongly, because they have an important responsibility in this respect. After all, they hire the people. "In case of complaints you stay at home" and that will have to be rammed in Polish or Romanian a bit, because that is the first rule you start with. If you don't get sick on the case, the rest won't get sick. That's the basics, isn't it? That's what it starts with. In addition, there are circumstances within those slaughterhouses which may also give rise to further investigation. The RIVM has been asked to further examine whether the specific production conditions in those cooling cells can contribute to the distribution. Together with Mr Schouten, I asked the security regions and the GGDs to be on top of it in relation to those slaughterhouses. The GGD has said that it will do so at risk, because sometimes it is fruit growers and sometimes it is other companies where a destination horse is seen. The GGD cannot remove the people who are fit for that infection scare to examine all slaughterhouses per se. It must therefore be risk-oriented. The GGD is now preparing a plan for testing abattoirs on the basis of a risk-oriented assessment and on the basis of a sample. Here too, we cannot continue to look at the GGD together in order to solve it for those slaughterhouses. Those slaughterhouses have to get to work themselves. I have the impression that they are now becoming more aware of this. Where that is not the case, the company simply closes. The presidents of the security regions have shown that they are willing to take these measures and that they are also maintaining them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u258	This answers all the questions relating to slaughterhouses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u259	Yeah, mostly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u260	I saw Mr Asscher first. First Mr Asscher, then Mrs Ouwehand. Mr. Asscher, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u261	I think it is right to address the employers, but if you tell people now that they should stay home with minor complaints, for which they normally do not stay home, it is now arranged that they have no income. Also not to pay for the apartment they're in and it's part of the job they do. I have seen in the letter to the Chamber that this is being looked at, but I think we need to standardize that and make the statement that we are responding to those people. Otherwise, it's never gonna work. If you say to people without any other source of income "stay at home with minor complaints," then it can't be that they have to pay for it themselves. Because it might take a while, and that's not gonna work. We have such a huge interest in keeping people at home. That is the statement I would like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u262	That is a very unbiased statement, which is far-reaching in its implications. We are looking very seriously at it, because you are right that flex work weighs much more than permanent employment. Of course it is. We're working on that with Social Affairs. A task force, led by Emile Roemer, advises on this, but of course we cannot live up to the generic statement that we will pay in the case of flexwork or paid employment if we have to stay at home because of complaints. What we need to do is to look at it carefully and offer a solution as concrete as possible. However, it is no excuse to go to work if you are ill. It can't be. So we must try to find a solution to this issue, albeit a little cautious, if we can really do so under all circumstances. It is, of course, also about employees who have a very loose-knit relationship with the company where they come to work. This often goes through a temporary agency, often even through temporary agency across the border. It's very difficult to choose that generic in your approach. I don't think it's gonna work out generically, but we have to look at it. Meanwhile, the strict agreement with abattoirs is real: if you are sick, you stay home. As an employer, you are also responsible for the rest of your employees, so you just make sure that those who are ill at the gate, stay at the gate or rather, go to the GGD as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u263	We're already spending 100 billion, and the counter's running. If we want people not to go to work with complaints, because we want to avoid a second wave, we need to look at what prevents people from following those advices. You can shape it wisely in all kinds of ways. If the GGD indicates "stay at home," then you have to stick to it. The costs of meeting people's income, if they are involved in isolation, are not the same as the costs that we, as a society, will incur if there is another outbreak. No one will ask to be too generous with that, but this is the other extreme. My call is real: you can't ask people with a zero-hour contract and without any certainty to bear all the costs themselves if they have to stay home to protect others. Then we'll have to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u264	I know Mr Koolmees as an extremely creative colleague, so I believe we can do something. Of course, you have to be careful about all kinds of perverse effects. You don't want such an arrangement to become a magnet for all kinds of temp agencies across the border to send their staff this way, because you'll be paid for eternity once you're inside. I can't do that, of course. You really have to be careful that such a scheme does not have a lot of perverse effects, which we say in a while: how could this have happened so that this scheme exists? So: yes, we have to do something with this. And yes, we have this issue at gunpoint. We have the task force-Roemer, who helps us to think about it as creatively as possible. Koolmees is also working on it. But we shouldn't pretend it's just as easy to solve. Because it's not. In the meantime, I do not think that employers have an excuse to look away when vans full of Eastern Europeans come in coughing in the morning. It is really employers' responsibility to say: stay outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u265	Welcome to the world of the meat industry, I say to the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u267	Yeah, and that's not a cozy world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u268	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u269	People who work in this industry are vulnerable. The meat industry made use of Polish migrant workers, who were now a bit at home in the Netherlands and who began to know their rights. Then a can of Romanians is pulled open, which all have to learn here. Those people are now demonstrating outside the slaughterhouse, where a sample found 17% of the employees infected. They just have to keep working. The people who have actually turned out to be ill may stay at home, but not the other people. Why isn't this slaughterhouse in Boxtel being shut down? Where's the national direction? A slaughterhouse in Apeldoorn will close, because the chairman of the safety region there says: never, that slaughterhouse will not live up to its commitments and people must not be put at risk. In Boxtel, the chairman of the security region says that public health is not the only thing that matters; we also have economic interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u270	My impression is that the presidents of the security regions have very close contact with each other. We are also helping them, also by showing what is possible under the current laws and regulations. Last week we sent a letter to clarify what these possibilities are. The DPGs, the Directors of Public Health of the security regions, of the GGD regions actually, are also very closely involved and they also have very close contact with each other. Here too, a risk-oriented approach is being taken to see what is possible. It also depends very much on how a company behaves as an employer. The company of an employer who pretends to cooperate, but meanwhile simply lets people in, who are not critical at the gate, and who pretends not to know where the agency is getting their people from, just stays closed. This too has been demonstrated by the security regions. Measures are therefore taken which are appropriate to the degree of cooperation of the holding and measures are taken which are appropriate to the risk of contamination of the holding. In it, the chairman of the security region works together with the Director of Public Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u271	I am addressing the Minister again to the problem I have just raised. We can relax a number of things, but we must ensure that the overall spread remains below a certain level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u272	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u273	Slaughterhouses are fireplaces. The cabinet has simply thrown it over the fence of the security regions. The Minister of LNV has had exactly 36 hours of harsh words: the slaughterhouses must comply with the rules and otherwise they will close. Then she had a little chat with those abattoirs and they just laughed at her face. And now the security regions can decide how high the risk is for the total contamination in the Netherlands. That's just a fireplace. I don't understand the difference between that one slaughterhouse in Helmond and this slaughterhouse in Boxtel. Boxtel can stay open and Helmond had to close. Where is this minister's direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u274	That was the same question. Now the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u275	That's a bit of a strange representation of things. Especially the GGD regions are ideally suited to jump on top and get to work if there is a fireplace. They do so under the direction of the security region, and the security region operates under the direction of the minister. How much national direction do you want? That's national direction. Of course, you look at the actual risk of infection in a company, whether it's a slaughterhouse or a fruit grower. If a company has irresponsible working conditions, it has to close. That can be monitored by a national inspection, and that is what is happening. Of course, the NVWA has a role in this. But the local GGDs have a role to play in blowing off the fireplaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u276	But there's a difference. I'm afraid that same question will be asked again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u277	Yes, of course there is a difference between one company and another. That is why we have invested in the region the compliance and enforcement of what is actually taking place in a company. Then you can make that difference right. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u278	But these people have to work in a slaughterhouse where 17% of the employees with a sample have been found ill. I said welcome to the world of the meat industry. We get stories from whistleblowers and they've always been right. They say: this sample is done in such a way that the people who are really sick fall out. People who were first in the slaughterhouses who were completely shut down had to check in Boxtel. So they stood among those sick people. Everyone had to quarantine there, but the judges didn't. They were allowed to go back to work in Boxtel. The cabinet therefore does not protect the NVWA, the cabinet does not protect the KDS inspectors and the cabinet does not protect those migrant workers. On top of that, it is therefore a risk to public health. RIVM said this morning that the story that the sector comes up with, that there would be a safe level, is not at all on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u279	Your question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u280	So let me warn this Minister: welcome to the meat industry. This is one big cesspool. He's gotta make sure those contamination sites in the slaughterhouses stop today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u281	We need to stop the contamination fireplaces anyway. Therefore, measures are also taken that are appropriate for the holding concerned. I do know that one example you're referring to, where a company has been messing with and cheating with who you're wearing for the sample. So that company is also nailed shut, and rightly so. That's the way it's supposed to be. So you can see that Presidents of the security regions do not feel any reluctance to take the appropriate measures. So you can see that we actually test companies when we have reason to put out such a fireplace. That's the way we do the job. I am merely saying that in the region the very things that are deemed necessary must be done on the basis of the observations you make in such a region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u282	Yes, that's what you said. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u283	It is a bit difficult, because for all kinds of other sectors, national agreements have been made whether they can be opened or not. For example, how to deal with the catering industry is not a competence that we lay down in the security regions. Eventually they make the emergency regulations, but there is one national directive and everyone has to deal with it in the same way. In these abattoirs we are indeed seeing enormous differences. A balance is being made, including with the economic interests that exist. I believe that this is a dangerous precedent and that it should therefore be said nationally what needs to be done with these slaughterhouses. If they're fireplaces, we can't see the consequences if we leave them open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u284	The presentation of things is not entirely correct. Here too, we have given the instructions to the presidents of the security region. The presidents of the security region are one-on-one with the GGDs, with the Directors and Public Health. The clue is correctly executed. The designation is: best presidents of the security region, the 1.5 metres apply, if you wish to maintain it. This is now contained in the emergency regulations drawn up on the basis of the designation given by the VWS Minister. In addition, my colleague Mr Schouten and I have said to the GGDs: know for a moment that this sector, as a whole, is a worry child; so make a plan to make sure that we get a better picture of this sector. We do that for the slaughterhouses, but for the meat processing industry and not for other sectors. Moreover, employers themselves have a role to play in ensuring that the working conditions of the company are properly respected and presidents of the security region have the task of effectively enforcing compliance with these 1.5 metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u285	Those employers certainly have a role to play here. They're entirely responsible. Mr Asscher is right that people with a zero-hour contract will not be so easy to unsubscribe. I am not here to argue that the government should necessarily pay for these people, but I think that these employers should be forced to pay for them. They have a great responsibility. It's a mess at their companies. The government is doing everything in its power to ensure that they can continue to work. They have a responsibility to pay these people as well. Is the Minister prepared to make these agreements with these companies, in order to make the agreement with the whole meat processing industry that if people are sick because they have complaints and have to be tested, they will at least be paid during the period when they have to wait for the test?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u286	Yes. The chain responsibility or chain responsibility that you have as an hiring employer is of course at issue. I have just said to Mr Asscher that Mr Koolmees is working on this, but in such a way that it does not have all kinds of perverse effects. That is why I am a little reluctant to say that we are going to take care of that of course. We're certainly not going to do that as a government. Do you have a responsibility there as an employer? Yes, of course. But how exactly do you arrange that? That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u287	Finally. Explicitly, I think you shouldn't be dragging this to the government right now, but you should make the deal. I think that's the Minister's idea before that. The agreement must be made with the employers. In the context of the control of these fireplaces, employers must undertake to pay for it. I think that's an appointment that should be on paper as soon as possible, preferably before the weekend. That's what this is really about as far as I'm concerned. They caused a big problem. They have to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u288	Yes, and so we are talking to them about this and so I am trying to find a solution as soon as possible, but I am really doing so with Mr Koolmees. It makes sense that Social Affairs is in the lead. Mr. Chairman. I'll get back to the block of varia. Anything that's fun is fast. Will tailor-made and cross-compliance be reflected in the temporary law on co-vid measures? How's the law, by the way? That law goes to the Council of State as soon as possible. The law has been in consultation and I thought the consultation closed today. That could be tomorrow, too. The law then goes to the Council of State as soon as possible. Depending on the opinion of the Council of State, the law will also come to your Chamber as soon as possible. I think it would be a good idea to discuss the law with each other. Van der Staaij asked: is there not much more attention needed for prevention and is this sufficiently taken up? The answer is yes. Mr Blokhuis is in the process of taking preventive action. If I were to describe the health approach of this crisis, that is of course that we are on our way to that vaccine. Of course, we want that vaccine eventually, because only then will we really be protected. In the meantime, we need to focus on innovative treatments. We need a lot of innovative treatments. You said the same thing, and you rightly underlined it. Innovative treatments are needed to see if we can protect people as much as possible until that vaccine arrives. What we don't have to wait a day with is to adapt our own lifestyle in such a way that we get healthier in life and thereby better protect ourselves and increase our resistance to everything that is sickening. This requires the prevention approach. Mr Blokhuis is working on this. Then I'll get to the appointments around the planes. I understand you spoke to Jaap van Dissel about this this morning. The world of flying is, of course, an entire international world. There are not only Dutch rules. Air carriers are among the IATA and in Europe under EASA. EASA has drawn up guidelines on the basis of international WHO and ECDC health standards. This must then be translated by the airlines into protocols for their own company. People are still in the middle of that process. You could of course say that we can make Dutch agreements with our own airlines, but these airlines are all bound by EASA's international standards. Following your question, and I also thought Mr Klaver's question, I would like to ask RIVM to take a look at the translation of these international guidelines into 'what are we going to do within our own airlines' and into those protocols. We do the same in other sectors. The RIVM then looks at the translation. However, I would add that the aviation world is, of course, an entire international world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u289	Very briefly, Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u290	I understand that, but trains also cross the border. We have also taken measures to this end. This is very much based on some kind of impact reasoning, while I think everyone who's going to fly wants to feel safe. That is also the intention of my question. This morning, that question could not be answered in the technical briefing. I would like an answer to the question of how safe it is to fly that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u291	The difference with the world of trains is, of course, that there isn't some international train union that tells you how to do it. It's really a national agreement that we make with the NS ourselves. For the flying world, EASA has drawn up a number of guidelines based on international medical advice. All airlines have to comply. Inside, they're making a translation into how they're going to do it. So I am going to ask RIVM to take a look at the protocols that will be drawn up by our own airlines on the basis of international guidelines. We don't have Delta Air Lines on a string with that. Of course it doesn't work that way, but we can talk to our own KLM. We are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u292	Let me ask you something. I would very much like to get on paper, if that were possible, how these airlines are doing. You can do that next week. You're talking about EASA, but that's the industry organisation. That is not an international non-governmental organisation, but an interbranch organisation. That's a bit like asking Royal Horeca Netherlands how many people fit into a catering shop. I think that we would hear a different number than the cabinet itself, on the basis of the advice they receive. So my question is: what exactly is the legal status of these opinions? And is it true that we from the Netherlands, because we are issuing landing rights, can make public health demands? Can we say that you can only land in the Netherlands if the aircraft and passengers meet these and these conditions? Can this be put on paper so that we in the Chamber know exactly what all the options are?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u293	Yes. Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen is working on this. I will articulate that well in cooperation with her. However, I will at least say to Mrs Diertens and to you, too, that I will also refer the translation of these protocols to RIVM, as we do with all other sectors. We're not going to approve protocols. They simply have to comply with the RIVM guidelines, but in that translation RIVM can think along.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u294	Then the Chamber gets a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u295	Yeah, I'll do that in the next progress letter. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the reply. We also have colleague Rutte with a big pile, and colleague Van Rijn, who still has a big pile. So the party's not over yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u296	Try to keep the interruptions really short. It doesn't matter how many interruptions, but it's also about being brief and concise. The same goes for the answer, of course. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u297	Sure, you can assume that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u298	Perhaps it is Mr Van Rijn, but I had asked questions about the perspective for patients with less urgent complaints, those 700,000 who are waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u299	Yeah, that's Van Rijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u300	That's Van Rijn? And the same goes for the heat plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u301	Patients with less urgent complaints are until 9 July Van Rijn and then Van Ark. And the heat plan could be mine, because that concerns nursing home care, but I don't have it in my set, so I'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u302	Okay, that's good. And the same goes for the letter? On page 21 it says that care can also take place in the first line? Is that part of Van Rijn too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u303	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u304	I had asked at the beginning of my speech for clarity about, for example, a dance school, which is seen by one municipality as sport and by the other as culture. A second question from me was about smaller campsites, 2,000 small campsites, which do not even get the chance to become coronaproof.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u305	I'm pretty sure they're in the Prime Minister's set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u306	That's more than excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u307	The Prime Minister is in charge of the campsites.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u308	When it comes to pilates, it really is the Minister of General Affairs who has to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u309	That's a new wallet, the campsites.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u310	Everything with vibrating plates is the PM's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u311	Okay. Then I thank the Minister for his answers. We wait for a moment until the chair has been cleaned and then the Minister for Medical Care has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are not that many questions that have been asked, and I will therefore take a very short fly-over on the issues that have been raised. I think that the stage in which we are now in and in which we are going to be in the development of the virus also translates into the state of affairs in the whole of care. This applies in particular to the regular provision of care, which Mrs Van Brenk has asked a number of questions about, the ic-care and the availability of personal protective equipment. The results have been achieved; I am going to go into that in a moment. But today's and tomorrow's questions are actually: how do we ensure that we remain in control and how do we ensure that we are prepared when faced with an unexpected new wave? We are thinking here and there about structural changes, which may and may also have to result from the experiences we have had so far. Mr. Chairman. Let's start with regular care. Of course, we all want to move quickly towards giving care to all patients who need it, both covid and non-covid patients. Over the past few weeks, we've seen that regular care services in general are getting back on track. All sectors, often in cooperation in the region, work together with the Dutch Healthcare Authority on the steps that can be taken to restart the provision of the necessary regular care. In practice, this is visible to the professionals who are working. For example, the number of referrals by general practitioners to the hospital has increased to 80% compared to the number before the crisis. That doesn't mean we're already here. Mrs Van Brenk already referred to the study of the Patient Federation, where there are still delays, not only in the referrals, but also in the appointments you make with your hospital. This means that we are working on three fronts to give that further impetus. First of all, we improve the information to healthcare providers on how they can continue to do so, but also the information from healthcare providers to patients. Go to your GP if you have any complaints; don't wait. Generals have indicated they're ready for that. Information cards have been compiled in consultation with the Patient Federation, the RIVM and the Department, with the core: ordinary care can simply be restarted; go to your GP; make sure you register there. Secondly, the Healthcare Authority has drawn up an urgent list of the care to be scaled up and agreements are made at regional level on how to do so as soon as possible. That is important, because hospitals, too, for example, have to do with the question of how to organise a one-and-a-half-metre hospital, and have to do with obstacles. On the other hand, you can see that there are a lot of possibilities for digital care, telephone control arrangements and things that can be done in cooperation between general practitioners and specialists in general practitioners. I asked the Healthcare Authority to see if there were any obstacles to continuing this even after the corona crisis, so to speak, and to see if, for example, it would require an adjustment of funding. It is already the case that, where necessary, the Healthcare Authority will adjust its funding by making temporary arrangements. To sum up, first the urgent care prepared by the Healthcare Authority together with the caregivers. I notice that patients are still a little scared, or perhaps very afraid, to report, so a lot of information and advice will have to be given. Let us also note that not everything can be done at once. For example, we are also dealing with the one and a half-metre society in hospitals, and we will therefore have to consider how this can be done in other ways than what we have learned. Mr. Chairman. Then the scaling-up of intensive care. We talked about this extensively last time. As you know, I have instructed the National Network of Acute Care to work with the field to come up with a detailed plan on the expansion of ic-capacity in Dutch hospitals. At that time we also exchanged the view that it was not just a matter of scaling up the ic-capacity. It takes time for that, also to prevent us from asking too many of our healthcare professionals, especially shortly after that intensive period. The House has also called for this to be done in close consultation with the health professionals, both the nurses and the doctors. The presidents of V&VN and the Dutch Association for Intensive Care are working together on the deployment of the staff and the necessary training. They therefore have a role to play in the design of the plan. The Chief Nursing Officer, Professor Neighbor, is also involved. At the end of June, I expect the first part of the plan on flexible expansion to 1,700 or otherwise. In September, I expect a plan on possible emergency scenarios, which hopefully we will never need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u313	I would like to ask the Minister the following. There have been huge additional costs incurred over the past year, over the past few months, in healthcare. The concern must be to invest more in ic-capacity and the like; that includes the implementation of the motion that I tabled together with Mr Asscher, and that is also in the letter. Is there enough budget and would it not be wise to make some extra investments for the medical-specialist care now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u314	It could be. In fact, we have already done so in the purchase of ventilation equipment and spare equipment. In the assignment we have given to the National Network of Acute Care, we have explicitly asked to include the funding question as well, because you cannot scale up for free. That will require resources. We have explicitly asked for that to be mapped out for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u315	That is good news, because these are huge sums, which have arisen because of an excessive situation. What I'm afraid of is the next thing, because that money doesn't fall out of the sky. I've seen it in some newspapers, too. I do not know if it is true; perhaps you can say something about it. Next year, the health premium is likely to go up by perhaps hundreds of euros. The ordinary people, who can't do anything about it either, pay the price if the cabinet doesn't invest in extra medical care. Is that right? Would, if you didn't, the premium go up sharply? Are those messages true? Or do you say, well, as a cabinet, we won't let that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u316	There's nothing free. If you say the government pays, it comes from the taxes and the premiums. Nothing's free. Of course, you have to look very carefully at what is needed to achieve this flexible scaling up of, for example, the ic-capacity. We've already bought the devices. For what is also organizationally possible, it will be necessary to examine which part is to be taken by the hospitals and which part by the health insurance companies, with all the consequences. That is exactly why I asked not only to look in a technical sense at what is needed for scaling up, but to find out where the money comes from and how much it costs. Then we can discuss with each other in this Chamber whether there are any consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u317	May I then ask the Minister, in the next letter from the cabinet, that this will probably include the signature of your successor, but I can only ask you to deal with both these investments and the possible effects in two weeks' time? We would find it very undesirable if... It doesn't matter if you take it out of the taxes or if you let the contributor pay it. How would that not have to lead to higher health benefits next year? My question is to include these two aspects in the letter a little more extensively next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u318	I'll be here for a while, by the way. I'll be there in two weeks, I guess, unless something else happens, of course. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u319	I was wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u320	I'd like to pay attention to that. I would just point out that the amount of information we have will still be small. We have an idea of additional costs that have been incurred, but we still have no idea of any additional costs that will be incurred. But we can pay some attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u321	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mr Agema, spoke of June, which is why I made a mistake. She's very happy that you're staying for another month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u322	I can't believe you're going through this, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u323	I have to get this message, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u324	Yeah, are you gonna doubt it? I think this is a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u325	Perhaps you'd like to make another interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u326	Yeah, one more time. It's really in the Acts. You and Mrs. Agema got along well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u327	It's unbelievable. I'm touched, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u328	I see it. Then Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u329	Following on from the commitment made to Mr Wilders to make it clear what is going on with this funding, who is to pay what and what the costs are, I would like to ask the Minister to take into account the financial situation of hospitals as well, because of course it is not zero. Hospitals, too, I think, have reserves. Out of my mind, that's 7 billion dollars. So we should not have the idea with each other that suddenly there can be no more concern and that that would be a bottleneck, because I would not want to do that to people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u330	I very much agree with that. We need to look at the whole spectrum. I sometimes hear that reserves are there for difficult times. Well, we're having these tough times now. This means that we not only need to look at what extra funding is needed, but also what buffers are for. We can use those buffers in times like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u331	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u332	Then there's the personal protective equipment. In the meantime, the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries has been able to buy large quantities of personal protective equipment. In the coming weeks, there will be a constant supply. The rural centre has indicated that it is now well equipped to meet the demand. This generally applies to all materials. There is only a shortage of gloves, but that too is rapidly getting smaller. It's likely to be rushed into by the rural center. The assignment for the LCH remains provisional to purchase maximum protective equipment for care. I have just been briefed at the domes for medical-special care and general care and also at the domes for long-term care. They indicate that in recent weeks there have been no signs of shortages of mouth masks and other resources, except for the lack of gloves that are being walked in. I think the good news is that the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries has indicated that, on the basis of the current orders and deliveries that are coming in at the end of this month, there is probably enough material available for a possible second peak, which we all want to avoid. You know me a little bit as a careful person in that regard. It is a nice message, but at least I indicated that I would very much like to be able to touch that stuff myself at the end of June. Because only when we can touch them will we really have them. The orders and the materials that come in are satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u333	I have a question about the protective equipment for care. I did see the message in the newspaper with a big picture in it. There should be enough to be able to handle a second peak right away. My question is why, in the directives for caregivers, when they are allowed to use protective equipment, it is still rejected as a precautionary measure. Does the Minister not agree that, at some point in time, it is going to give a slightly distorted picture if our home care workers still do not have the right to use preventive protective equipment, whereas we now even use preventive masks on the train? Is it not also high time, now that there is at last enough equipment, to adapt this directive so that caregivers can also be provided with precautionary protective equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u334	Last time, a motion was adopted from your hand and from Mr Jetten's. It says: make sure that there is professional space to allow employees to have protective equipment when they need it while they are in unclear situations. I asked the unions to make a hand-out based on that hand-off. That's this piece that I've got right here in front of me. I got it this morning. In it that professional space is explained as it were and it is also made possible to make those choices. That hand-out is very good, because a general preventive use has a disadvantage. If you choose to do so, you will talk very quickly about very large numbers of resources that are not really needed. Let me give you a simple example. What if half the caregivers would choose to do this? They need an average of ten caps a day. If you add that up, you're gonna need 3 billion more mouth caps a year, which would get the whole care in trouble. That's why this hand-out is so important. It has been developed in cooperation with the unions and it says: there are directives, but as a professional you must be able to deviate from those directives if the situation is not satisfactory or if you think there is a risk of contamination. That's why those hand-outs were made, which I'm very happy about. Mr. Chairman. A second question related to this concerns carers, volunteers and palliative care providers. In the meantime, there are also 100,000 packages available for them. If you are taking care of a patient with COVID-19 who has been tested positive, you can pick up such packages at the pharmacy free of charge, or they are delivered at home. I think we found a good center here. We do not opt for a general preventive use, to prevent use where it is not necessary. This would lead us to new scarcity. However, there is more professional space for the healthcare provider to ensure that he or she can receive protective equipment when he or she considers it necessary. I'm gonna take a little look into the future. Of course, we prefer that healthcare providers and suppliers will be able to provide themselves with sufficient protective equipment in the near future, even when demand is increasing suddenly. The question is how we organise it in the long term in that global market of supply and demand. I am actually dealing with three related issues in this area. First of all, how is supply and demand developing in the coming period, now that we can look a little ahead? Next: what procurement strategy is included? What strategy does this include in terms of production in the Netherlands? And what strategy for an iron supply is included? We need some buffer stock in the protective equipment, so we can have some time when tough times come again. Thirdly, of course, the question is: are we going to be more central to this or are we going to be managing it on a decentralised basis? I want to do all that in consultation with the healthcare providers. I hope to be able to tell you somewhere in July what the strategy will be about to be. It is still very volatile, because there are good reports, but of course it is still very fragile worldwide. Mr. Chairman. A number of specific questions have been asked. Mrs Van den Berg asked why the platform for the exchange of data between hospitals is no longer being used. At present, there are only a very limited number of covid patients every day who need to be admitted to the ic and who therefore need to be moved. So now there is no great need to spread patients among themselves. That's why the platform isn't being used right now. But it is very important to maintain and preserve that platform in case there is a need to scale up again. For this reason, I asked the National Network for Acute Care to indicate how 24/7 availability of beds for acute care can be recorded and monitored in the development of the rampage plan, which we were just talking about. We have also been asked to come up with a common system for this. There is also support for this by all parties. I expect this to be worked out in a plan that I will receive from acute care at the end of June.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u335	We talked extensively in other AO's, times ago, about the lack of ICT in healthcare. Systems can't communicate with each other. One must work with faxes and be busy burning DVDs to carry information with patients. In addition to all the misery of the corona crisis, one of its proceeds is that we now have an integral system, under steam and boiling water. In no time 95% of hospitals were connected to this system. Whether it's corona or not, the question is how to transfer that data effectively and safely if someone from a regional hospital, for example, has to go to a top clinic. And now they're going to fall back on the fax and on the DVD. I find it truly unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u336	No, they're not going to fall back on the fax and the DVD. A platform has been created that has been used to accomplish that patient spread. That is not necessary now, because patients no longer need to be spread, but the system is still there and all parties have said: we want to maintain that, even more so, we want to improve that by using that 24/7 information online. It will therefore become an integral part of the plan now being made by the National Network of Acute Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u337	What I'm picking up in the field is that it's going to be used for an integral plan for covid care, but not for patients who may need an oncological treatment or complex bowel surgery and therefore have to go from one hospital to another, and that's why one falls back on the old systems, by fax and with the DVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u338	No, there is a whole programme on digitalisation in healthcare and e-health, which aims to provide information in a structural way rather than using faxes and DVDs. That's part of a much broader plan. Be assured that we do not just want to preserve and perfect this system, because we need it for the future, but that we are generally going to bring digitalisation further throughout the care. There are also a lot of plans to do that. The time of the faxes and the DVDs is really over and must be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u339	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u340	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Diertens asked what's on the shelf in terms of schematics in the care. Part of it has something to do with what I just outlined about this ic-care. How are you supposed to scale up structuralally, so you're more focused on it? With regard to personal protective equipment, the question is how to build up an iron stock. I am working with my colleagues in Belgium and Germany to see whether we can also work together in a European context, perhaps with a European iron supply. At the same time, I have also told you how we are working with regular care to make a plan, so that there will be little displacement of regular care. So it's not so much a road map, but it does mean being prepared for a next phase, both in terms of ic capacity and protective equipment and regular care. Then Mr Van der Staaij asked about the recovery of caregivers, so to speak. I think that is indeed a very important point. It will require a great deal of attention and attention from employers in the care sector to listen and see how their employees can have some rest and enjoyment after this incredibly busy time. That is why we are so careful to ask for extra things from them, when we are going to do it around the scale, for example. I'm also working with the unions to see how we can better monitor that. I am discussing these matters with the directors on the one hand and with the trade unions on the other. Let me assure you that in the next letter we will pay a little more attention to how this is going. Then Mr Van der Staaij asked whether, if the virus is alive again, family and caregivers can receive protective equipment with priority. The beauty is, I think, that carers who nurse and care for a patient infected with COVID-19 are now entitled to personal protective equipment. A directive has been drawn up and available. This is very important for the continuity of care, even in a subsequent period. Finally, Mr President. I think that for the near future much depends on our shared ability to persevere and to be vigilant. I think that Mr Asscher quite rightly added another aspect to that, namely the element of cooperation. If we have seen one thing in the past period, cooperation in healthcare has proved to be a major force: cooperation between public health care, curative care and long-term care, between health insurers and healthcare providers and between healthcare providers, especially that component. Let's hold on to that for the future. I think that's a lesson we're learning right now and we really need to take it to the future. Mr President, I had one final comment, but perhaps Mrs Van Brenk would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u341	I have the point that I would like the Minister to tell me exactly how he sees it. On page 21 of the letter he says that the care can also take place in the first line. I'd like to have a little more image and sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u342	Let me give you the example of someone who comes to the doctor with heart problems. The GP doesn't really trust it and refers to the hospital. In the hospital, after consulting the specialist, it appears that with a number of lifestyle recommendations or medications it could be fixed quite quickly and that you don't really need that long trip to the hospital, with an appointment, etc. etc. What you could do is that general practitioners and specialists help each other by consulting each other at the time when the diagnosis needs to be made. There are a number of fantastic projects going on in the country, not only in this area, in which close cooperation between general practitioners and specialists makes it easier for the general practitioner to assess whether a reference should be made. The specialist will then have much more space to see the patients he really needs to see much better. That is an example; it is not the shuffling off of care, but rather making sure that care can be given in the right place; with consultation if necessary. Mr. Chairman. I liked hearing Mr Van der Staaij talk about Ecclesiastes and about cooperation in healthcare. There is a beautiful spell, Ecclesiastes 4, verse 12; we had that tradition in the past. It says that someone who is alone can be attacked and defeated, but two people can come to each other's aid and thus win the victory. Three is even better, because a cord that is woven out of three strands is not easy to break. Mr President, I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u343	That is a fine conclusion to your speech. Thank you very much. Then I'd like to suspend for dinner break until 8:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u344	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. We were actually working on the government's first term. We had a brief point of order on a letter from the Minister. The Minister is here to explain it now. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During Tuesday's oral questions, I informed Mr Jetten that I had no objection to the publication of the app exchange between me and the mayor of Amsterdam last Monday on the demonstration. At the same time, I have indicated that I do believe that the debate should first take place in the Council. This morning, the mayor informed himself that he did not object to disclosure, and that is why I saw reason to comply with the request made by Mr Wilders. I would like to say that I attach great importance to the fact that conversation between directors should often remain confidential in the light of the relationships we have. However, in the light of this very exceptional situation, I choose the request for disclosure. In Question Time, I made it clear what my opinion was on the way in which the Dam was demonstrated. All the understanding of the right of demonstration, but we also have to keep that 1.5 meter distance at demonstrations in this corona time. I came here as soon as you asked me to answer any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u346	Thank you for the Minister's willingness to come. That's the way it's supposed to be. But I'd like to ask you a question. Look, of course, something's happened since last Tuesday. We've had the pleasure of seeing you and the mayor of Amsterdam. I honestly don't know where to start, it's all that bad. Perhaps you will allow me, Mr President, to comment first on the whole and then ask questions. It is a bit of a shocking picture of two drivers who at least don't like each other administratively and are in each other's hair, who are quivering a bit and wiping each other out in an administrative way. It doesn't seem very sympathetic. I will come back later to talk about this minister, but what I particularly notice is whether the Minister shares this with me.. is that the Mayor of Amsterdam does not once notice in the app exchange that she is concerned about, for example, the public health of the people who were there at Dam Square. Or that she's worried about the police: "Don't these people have to go to the GD?" No. Nothing at all. Absolutely nothing about empathy for anyone else. Mrs. Halsema was only concerned with herself. She was working on her own position. She was trying to save her own ass. She was talking about The Telegraph going full again. She said "T is and remains T" or something about that newspaper. She was talking about right-wing politicians smoking their chance. She blamed everyone. It was actually a very uncertain, a bit self-centered, incompetent vanity, a mayor who wanted you to play in her game. My first question would be: have you noticed that the mayor was mainly concerned with covering her own disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u347	I have focused on the interest in the demonstration in Amsterdam and what took place there. I have already said a few things about this during Question Time and also in my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u348	I assume that was an introduction to the answer that is still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u349	I actually thought that was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u350	So the Minister does not want to answer my question as to whether he agrees with me that the mayor of Amsterdam was primarily concerned with himself. And with you. She was trying to get her back covered by you instead of dealing with Amsterdam and the people standing there. However, if the Minister does not want to answer that, then I come to my second question to the Minister. Do you agree with me that the mayor of Amsterdam mostly called you on Monday when she felt wet when she saw it went wrong? We heard Mr Bruls, the chairman of all these security regions, say today: 'I will never hear you call a minister; I will decide that myself. I won't call the minister. Soon there will be a demonstration with me in Nijmegen. I'm not gonna do that." Mrs. Halsema did. She did it because she saw it went wrong, because there were thousands of people on the Dam. She asked you if you wanted to share responsibility, and she used the word "recession" for her decision not to break up that demonstration when it was too full on Dam Square and no distance of 1.5 metres. She asked you, "Can I say that's back-spoke?" And you said, no, you can't. And then she later said, "That's only about five feet." Then you said "good," but three minutes later you sent an app: no, you can't, I'm not involved either; I only understand that. Do you agree with me that this is a mayor who tried to use or abuse you for the wrong decisions she made and the misery she was in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u351	I have a lot to do with mayors, especially in this corona time. We're in close contact. Every week is the Safety Council in Utrecht. I have often congratulated enough on the way in which the Presidents of the security regions are handling this. There are Mayors who call me every two and a half years that I'm a minister to hold something or say to me: I've done something sister and stuff. That's their right. I think that is entirely part of the administrative context. Eventually, everyone has their own responsibility, but I think it is also part of that administrative task of getting in touch occasionally, wanting to spar and saying "I've had enough" or whatever, especially in this difficult time of corona, in which mayors really have a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u352	Mr President, that was again not an answer. Backspoke. Get in touch. She sent you 12 hours of texts and apps until Monday night. At some point, you just didn't respond to it anymore. She called your house at half a night stalking you. You just didn't answer. At eight o'clock in the morning, I believe, you got another angry app over it: how you dared; that she expected you to support her. There is nothing of professionalism here in the contact between you and Mrs Halsema. It's all crazy. I looked up the word "recess" in the dictionary. It literally means that there is something to discuss first. There is then an example: consultation with the other members of the board before a decision is taken. So she deliberately asked you, "May I say..." what was not so......"that the triangle, in consultation with you, Minister, has decided not to break down that demonstration, where there were too many people, and not to maintain that 1.5 meters?" That's what she asked. You were crystal clear about that twice: you were not allowed to do so. Do you therefore agree with me that, by dragging you into it, she has tried to ensure that you did not speak the truth? 'Cause there wouldn't have been a backseat with you. She tried. You can't tolerate that from a mayor of Amsterdam, can you? And can you please go into what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u353	Let's get this over with. There haven't been any text messages exchanged, let me put that in front of you. Secondly, the phone was not answered at night. I received an urgent opinion from Mr Rutte at the beginning of this crisis: make sure you sleep for seven hours. And I'm gonna keep doing that. That's all it is. I have a double job now. That's okay at all. That's what it's all about, and I must be willing to do that, but I think I've just slept through messages from an hour or half past midnight. And then the point of back-spoke. I do not understand the excitement about this, because I simply said clearly: there has been no backspoke. Yeah, the mayor saw that, too. I think it's... Yeah, well, I don't think it's such a disaster, you know, when someone says, "Have we had a backseat?" And I'll say "no." On Tuesday, I explained quite extensively in your Chamber how these responsibilities work. Local authority must be all in the lead here and have responsibility. And then I don't even have to get in the way as a minister. I have to stay out of that. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u354	No answer again, Mr. Chairman. The Minister said at first: "Good! It's gonna be okay." Just back-spoke about non-maintaining. And three minutes later, at 7:26 p.m., he says, "No, no, maintaining a foot and a half is your decision, by the way, but I do understand it. So it didn't happen at all. Be careful not to stand here lying in the Chamber, because it's not like "well, I'm calling and it went well." You said at first: not when it comes to not breaking up the demonstration. Then: okay, just over the 1.5 meters. And three minutes later, you said again: not over 1.5 metres. Anyway, there's no answer to that either. Then, Madam President, the reason for the abort. You got mad at the mayor at some point. You said you didn't tell me this. You referred to the images of AT5, where Mrs Halsema said that one of the reasons she didn't want to abort the demonstration but wanted to continue was that she felt that this demonstration was too important. That's a judgment a mayor shouldn't give. A mayor must be above the parties. A mayor should not be allowed to say that she has sympathy for something by saying that it is too important. And you've gotten mad about that. You said you didn't tell me; you didn't make those arguments with me. Then may I ask you whether you agree with me that that should not be an argument for a real mayor, a good mayor? Why, in my opinion, were you right to be angry that she didn't tell you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u355	Let me start with this because I think it is important that the mayor withdraws it later. She said: I did not mean to say that. At least I think that's important. That's one. Two. That's an app message from my mind. 10:07 p.m. That starts with me wondering how it's unfolding. That's the emotion I have. As a former lawyer, I may be used to expressing myself occasionally in understatements, but still, there was emotion in that neighborhood. I don't mean it as some kind of self-appraisal, but in difficult situations, I don't get angry that easily. The emotion used in the app does indicate that I was surprised. And besides, everyone's been able to read what's in that app and why I was surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u356	Madam President, this is really some kind of exercise that they have agreed with each other to cover up for a while. Apparently, things got a little out of hand. The Minister just said: yes, but I would like to say that Mrs Halsema took it back later. Mr Rutte, here in the picture, I say to the viewers that there was a strong 'yes' nodding. He was very happy that the Minister said that, because he was nodding "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u357	I didn't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u358	Mind if I finish? He was pleased that Mrs Halsema would have taken that back. What value does it have, Mr. Secretary, that she took that back? She made the statement, namely "I think this demonstration is too important." Those were her words. And a little while later, she was standing on the Dam with an anti-slavery button. That was because she thought that demonstration was important. If people had demonstrated against multicultural society, against the European Union or against the greening of the world, they would probably have wiped the square clean. She didn't, because she thought it was too important. Then your only reaction, while the Prime Minister nods like a slave: I am glad that she has taken it back. You're saying about a criminal who robbed a bank, aren't you? He said he was sorry, and there's nothing wrong? A mayor, Mr. Secretary, shouldn't her judgment on a demonstration be taken into account in what she does with it? Don't put it under the table and tell me honestly how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u359	A mayor who makes a statement about demonstrations, which I do say 'I am surprised about' and who makes that statement, about which I say that any comparison with a bank robber is limp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u360	Then I see Mr Van der Staaij standing. But first, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u361	Finally. It's not about that bank robber. Of course, it is important that you, as Minister of Justice, if someone does not comply with the rules, should insist that you do. I have one more question, in two parts. The first part is that the Minister himself has said that he understands the failure to comply with the one and a half meter measure. I find that unimaginable for a Minister of Justice. Once again, the catering company gets the fines, the people on the street get the fines, the companies close and everyone has to follow the rules. But to the mayor of Amsterdam you say: I understand. That is my final question and my conclusion is that this is a big charade. I thought bringing the Minister of Justice to the Chamber would bring me closer to the truth. Apparently, the nodding Prime Minister has talked Rutte into him and everything has to be covered up again. Everything's being put under the carpet. It's a gross disgrace. Madam mayor needs to step down and you're not worth a snipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u362	I did not really hear a question in this, but I would like to say very briefly what I indicated last Tuesday, and I would like to repeat that here. The circumstances were presented to me as follows. There were many more people than was expected; at least 1,000 were told to me. The emotions were great and the escalation increased. It had been decided not to dissolve the demonstration, because they did not want to have police in front of demonstrators. Let me make this clear once again: rightly so, I fully understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u363	I have also taken note with interest of the app change, and at least it has strengthened me in the belief that the app should not be preferred when communicating on loaded topics. But the reason why I'm coming back to this is the next one. I have taken note of the content of the letter to the Amsterdam City Council of the chairman of the Amsterdam-Amstelland security region. The minister makes it very local: it's something from Amsterdam, so you have to have the city council for that. But is it true, as it has been written here, that in its capacity as chairman of the security region, it has agreed to agreements ranging from 150 to 300 participants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u364	I find that difficult to judge, for the simple reason, as I have always said, that I have really only been informed, a little after five, about what I just said. I hope I do not have to repeat this here: it escalated, the emotions were great and they had decided not to intervene. I repeat: what exactly has been the run-up to it must first be discussed in the Amsterdam city council, because it is going to be here, I really explain that to the local authority: the mayor, the chief prosecutor and the police chief. They decide on this. I really can't judge or judge exactly how that happened and why that happened. That debate will have to follow next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u365	But I note that the letter was signed by the chairman of the security region of Amsterdam/Amstelland and that it says: "As chairman of the security region, I agreed to the agreements of 250 to 300 participants'. Then I think: yes, Parliament's control will be slightly different. We are dealing here with a national crisis, and that is precisely the sentiment that rightly lives here. Everyone is concerned about what this means for the health and the fight against the crisis we are in. Then I think that the responsibility of the Minister goes further, especially in relation to the chairman of the security region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u366	Article 40 of the Security Regions Act states that the President of the Security Region is accountable to the City Council, in writing and possibly orally. If the city council wants to give us a position, it can do so through the King's Commissioner with an opinion from the Commissioner to me. So I understand the point made by Mr Van der Staaij very well, but at least that is a round we have not yet reached. I understand that it is very boring, also for the viewers at home, but I am telling you honestly: in our democracy, it should be the case that an orderly debate is being held on this issue in the Amsterdam City Council. If there's any reason to escalate that, it's up to that city council. Through the King's commissioner, it goes further to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u367	I think that's a little too easy. I believe that the Minister himself has an important responsibility in the structure of the security region, especially in a time of crisis. We are dealing with a national crisis and then it is more than just an issue of Amsterdam. Those people are also from all over the region. I wonder, therefore, how does he view, from his responsibility for combating the crisis, that a request is being made on a Sunday afternoon and that this demonstration can take place the next day? I can see that in other places it's going to take a couple of days. Are these not just fundamental requirements, especially at this time when we need to be careful? Shouldn't we say: Amsterdam, quick service for demonstrations, we're not going to do that? That is irresponsible and careless.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u368	In this country, as an organization, you are calling for a demonstration. Under Article 2 of the Act, public events may at any time be required to do so for various reasons, including public health. Once again, the question of how that has turned out here, what has played with it and why it has, and why it has not, is really a question, I keep repeating it, which is first up to the mayor and the city council of Amsterdam. Then it could escalate further. In the meantime, I think that Monday evening, in a press release, I made it quite clear how that demonstration went. But you will have noticed that I did not make any comment on the role of the Amsterdam municipality or the municipal administration, because I really cannot judge that at such a time. But I have made it very clear that this demonstration, at least as it was held there, in view of the failure to observe the 1.5 metres with so many people went beyond all limits. I also wrote in it that it was really painful for all those people who have been trying all this time and for all those people who have lost their loved ones or who still have seriously ill loved ones. I didn't hear it myself, but I saw a transcript of a radio broadcast in which the mayor said it with almost those words the next morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u369	Finally. I understand that in this particular structure the city council certainly has an important role to play, but as we saw in the Council of State's information on democratic control in this crisis situation, it is a mixture of regional and national responsibilities. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared, after the debate in the Amsterdam City Council has been held, to inform the Chamber of the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u370	I would simply like to come and send a letter to your Chamber on call after that debate, also to this effect. I do so again in the order of the Security Regions Act, because I am going to stick to that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u371	Assuming I think it's a very sad app change. On Sunday, you said it was out of bounds. In Question Time, the Minister was a lot more lenient. Now, after the app exchange, I understand that the Minister fully agreed with the mayor that the demonstration did not have to be dissolved because the 1.5 meter was not possible. How can this position be reconciled? Why didn't the Minister discuss with the mayor how the demonstration could be ended responsibly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u372	As I explained in oral Question Time on Tuesday, you can read the circumstances that have been outlined to me yourself, but that has also been explained by telephone so that there were many more people than expected. In addition, crowd management was indeed carried out, but the mayor had decided not to dissolve the demonstration because the emotions were too great for that. There was a fear of escalation and police being faced with protesters. I am going to say it again: I said in the telephone conversation and in the app 'rightfully, I understand that under those circumstances'. That's far from an ideal world. I have later, but that is quite different, but in public I said that things were really not going well here, no matter how respectable it is to demonstrate. As Minister of Justice and Security, that is clearly my job. So I do not have my opinion on how the Amsterdam triangle did this, that is up to the city council. However, as Minister of Justice and Security, I can give my opinion on the fact that there should not be a demonstration of this kind here at a distance of less than 1.5 metres in the corona time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u373	I understand. That is also an answer in terms of substance. Only when I look at the order of the pipeline of the app conversation, I find it a very sad app change. First briefly respond and agree with the mayor, but after the fear of De Telegraaf's publicity, the minister seeks active contact. I do not think that is a sign of administrative courage. And all of a sudden there's been backspoke, that was an informative announcement, and suddenly there's no backspoke. Does he see this as an information communication? The short contact at a time between 17.02 and 17.03 was no backspoke. Then what was it? And if it was an announcement from the mayor, why did the minister fully agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u374	The app from 5:02 p.m. ends with "you know." The scope of the app is also clearly a decision taken. Furthermore, I am afraid that I hope you do not point out to me that Mr Diertens is getting things mixed up here. I didn't contact you because De Telegraaf wrote something. "The T," as I have indicated, I admit it, but I still hope to stay friends with them. The mayor contacted me about that. Furthermore, it is not true that I said first that there had been backspoke and then no backspoke. One color of the beam is the mayor, and the other is me. Anyway, you've had it with the name for it all the time. But then you can see that the mayor is presenting that we have had a back-spoke, but no, we haven't had a back-spoke. The app change was not sent to you until 14.00, but it really requires a careful reading. The qualification of sad, well, everyone can know for themselves how they feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u375	But you are actually saying that you did not suddenly become active in response to De Telegraaf's criticism, and instead of taking responsibility, you are trying to take a personal stand against the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u376	I haven't read that part of De Telegraaf I'm gonna admit it at all, so I don't know what's in it. So I've never been attracted to what's in it. If you read it again, there wasn't much time for the mayor to see you say De Telegraaf is going completely loose or I know what, something like that says. But that wasn't touched by me, so I think there's been a misunderstanding here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u377	Finally. Do you agree with me that through this communication this cooperation between mayor and minister is not a good cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u378	Well, you know, I've always worked well with this mayor of Amsterdam. That's gonna be the case in the future, too. In difficult situations, communication is sometimes angular. It doesn't wake me up like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u379	We can talk about it for a long time or a short time, but the result is that it has run wild in Amsterdam. The whole Chamber agreed on that this afternoon. If we then see the app change that we have read again, it is also a fact that the Minister initially says in his very first reaction 'I understand Mrs Halsema that this 1.5 meter is not maintained'. We all know the consequences. Does the Minister, with his knowledge of the present situation, regret expressing that understanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u380	I have already said a number of times here that under the circumstances outlined to me, there were many more people than expected, it threatened to get out of hand, the emotions were great and they feared that the police would be facing protesters, understandably said that you are not going to dissolve the demonstration right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u381	In my view, there is also a greater understanding of the fact that the 1.5 metres are not maintained. All kinds of qualifications can be given to this app change, but that is not interesting at all. It is interesting, however, that neither driver is talking about public health here. That's the most shocking thing. The Telegraaf is called in, there is talk of who has spoken with whom and on whom it can be pushed off. But there is no mention of the main fact that public health was compromised in Amsterdam last Monday. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u382	I have to tell you that I have been working in this crisis structure since 2 March, and that is a completely unremunerated second job, I can assure you. I am constantly working on everything regarding public health; I am talking to boas, policemen and firefighters all over the country. At some point, hearing the circumstances, I said in this situation that we should not have the police here in front of the protesters. On the basis of what was outlined to me, I remain convinced that this was really not the right solution. You could also say: the least bad solution. I can assure you, as I told the Chamber, that this must not happen again. I gave a speech on the same evening, which is perhaps a bit excessive, but at least I said to the Presidents of the security regions: we really need to walk past this and this framework in demonstrations, because this cannot happen anymore, with all due respect. Hugo de Jonge, Kajsa Ollongren and I wrote a letter about that too. By the way, the next day in The Hague and Utrecht, we saw it happen in a very good way, and that also deserves respect from me to those protesters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u383	My point, of course, is that in this whole change of apps that we are now facing, neither one is talking about public health. It can now be said nicely here in the Chamber, but we see mainly two drivers who are trying to clean their own streets and see how they can both get out of here. That's very bad. The minister here says it should never happen again, but it did. We won't know exactly what the consequences are until later. We don't know yet. One other specific question to the Minister. He just said he talks to policemen a lot. We have heard on television and read in the newspaper that policemen say: we have already given signals that many more people would come to the Dam, but they have not been listened to. Eventually things went completely wrong, but policemen say they did warn against it. Was the Minister aware of this? Is he aware of that by now? What's his verdict on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u384	The first part: no. As I mentioned earlier, I was informed at 5:02 p.m. with an app message, and so on. So, no. Whatever happened before that, I don't know anything about it. The second part: I repeat what I said earlier. I believe that further research, debate and accountability should first take place in the city council of Amsterdam. Then, according to Article 40 of the Security Regions Act, it may be phased out or not, all of which I do not know. The last point: I saw it yesterday on the NOS Journal or on Teletext. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u385	Mr. President, I was touched for a moment. The Minister refers to his past as a lawyer. Then I know that he will also know that you are meant to be suspicious, because otherwise it will be nothing. I can imagine that on the basis of the phone call or the app of 5:02 p.m., he didn't have any suspicions. But you have now, after all, been able to form an image. I'd almost say "tell you the truth," but we're both lawyers, so who's gonna believe us? Tell me honestly, don't you feel taken by that app from 5:02 p.m.? Why am I asking you this? Because then you were told that the Dam was filling up, that emotions were rising high and that escalation was lurking. That's what Mrs. Halsema said. Didn't you ever think that she said that to put you in front of a failure accompli? Then perhaps you gave her the promise to let it go on and on, on which she could make the demonstration go on and demonstrate herself. However, the police in Amsterdam will not tolerate this. He now finds that the mayor informs you that things are about to get out of hand on Dam Square and that emotions are getting high. In other words, the police can't handle it. What do the police say? That is not at all true, there was a very gradual process, we could easily have prevented the influx by means of appropriate measures; escalation was not at all and emotions were not at all high. Take a look at that meeting, it was very quiet, calm and calm. So that's one, which could still feed your distrust when it comes to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u386	Perhaps we could refer this to the Minister first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u387	I haven't asked the question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u388	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u389	First, I'm trying to separate the minister so that we can walk the same path of thought. Born of distrust, it is now, it is high time, because you were taken by the nose at 5:02 p.m. She got you. You fell into the pit and she could move forward, because she could sell that you were informed. It wasn't perfect permission, but it was. Then the demonstration went off and there was noise. Then you will be told that there is escalation and that it is lurking that things are going wrong. That's not true, the police say. They could de-escalate and then nothing was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u390	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u391	Now the monkey comes out of the sleeve, so you can feel taken by the nose. She's disappointed in you. She's disappointed that you don't want to play the game and that you didn't agree to a back-speak construction. That's very sensible of you, but she finds that very sad. And why? Now there's going to be a very clumsy us-know-it-your-sense in the discussion. She's sorry you're not standing right in front of her. "I wish you hadn't put me in the cold," she writes. Why? That's what she writes: we have to be strong together, you have to stand in front of me in the fight against the Netherlands on the right and against the Telegraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u392	Mr. Hiddema?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u393	You don't think, taking all this together, this is a setup?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u394	The Minister, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u395	Don't you think I've been abused?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u396	Mr. Chairman. I am sure you will be willing to allow me and your Members to speak very briefly to a former confrère for me, because Mr Hiddema is still a lawyer, say that when I was trained as a lawyer, my pattern said to me: boy, always pay attention in negotiations with other lawyers. Honestly, it takes the longest time, and then you always win, because the other is always meant to be suspicious and doesn't see it coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u397	That's another variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u398	That's another school in law school. Mr. Chairman. I always have full confidence in the drivers I work with. Nor is that confidence embarrassed, especially when I see how the security regions have worked over the past three or four months. Same goes for the police. We can sometimes drop the police here and say something like that, but the police have had very heavy duties over the past few months and they have had to do it in the first few weeks of enforcement without protective equipment. That deserves a big compliment. The same goes for the boas, by the way. All this in the run-up to the question: isn't this a setup? I understand that there has been the necessary bitterness with enforcers about what turned out to have become of that demonstration on Dam Square. We did not say in vain that this should not happen again. I am convinced that all the presidents of the security regions share that view. I don't have the impression that people have deliberately made mistakes. Now let's wait and see. Next Wednesday is the debate in the city council. We can certainly discuss it here, as I promised Mr Van der Staaij, in the context of the escalation under the Security Regions Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u399	I understand my former colleague very well. A lot of categories pass through the review, such as boas, agents and other partnerships. I'm just missing someone who's at the centre here: Mayor Halsema. Anyway, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u400	The minister just indicated that he has frequent contact with mayors. I can very well imagine something about that, prior to something, to consider how to do it, or afterwards, to explore with each other how it has gone and what we can learn from it. Does the Minister often have this kind of app contact during an event or during a demonstration like that that took place in Amsterdam last Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u401	I didn't often have these kind of contacts during an event that played. I do not want to say back that I am sure that at such a time, even though I do not have the responsibility or role in it, I can be there for a mayor to spar about something or to complain about his or her need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u402	Does a contact during such an event have an effect on the process of maintaining public order? Or can he join Hubert Bruls, the chairman of the Security Council, who, in addition to stating that he never did or will never do so, has written in the newspaper that whatever the minister thinks of it, you as mayor have to make the decision yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u403	I know Mr Bruls as someone who occasionally speaks a truth that cannot be refuted. This is one of them. It is indeed the mayor who, after consulting the triangle, takes the decision and who also has the power and responsibility. I explained that to you on Tuesday. I would like to stress once again that, as a minister, I should not get in the way of that either or should I get in the way of that or whatever. Our country has a state system that works this way. I've actually seen it work in the last four months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u404	The Minister and I are all in line with who has what responsibility. Then the question is what effect or status that app traffic has. What can you do with that in the end? This therefore has no direct impact on the process of maintaining public order. Is the effect not only that it can be said afterwards: I have been in contact with the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u405	I don't know. Look, your room asked me last Tuesday if I would object to making that public. "Honestly it lasts the longest" means that I don't find that a problem at all if we find that together, the mayor and I. If the other says it was confidential, then don't do it. But if you find it together, you obviously have nothing to hide. Then we may not be doing so badly in the Netherlands, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u406	This wasn't about whether or not to make it public. I was concerned with the question of what is the value of the current event to contact and then to publicly announce that you have been in contact with the minister. That is what the mayor of Amsterdam did. So it doesn't have any value. I understand this from the Minister's explanation of how we organised it under state law. The responsibility lies with the mayor and not with the minister. Then the effect of such an app is really only: I can say that I've been in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u407	Well, I don't know. I think that's a negative approach. It is clear what the division of responsibility and competence was like. Unfortunately, I rarely watch television, but I understand that the mayor also said in the television broadcast of the talk show on Monday night that she has that responsibility. So there is really no ambiguity about that. But once again, as a driver, I think you can really say: I've decided this. I don't think it's all that exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u408	Thank you. Oh, Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u409	Clear answers from the Minister, as far as we are concerned. Can he tell us what the follow-up is about him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u410	Let me confine myself to the follow-up to the safety component. At the health part we have very little thought. That's the part of colleague De Jonge. In fact, we immediately discussed this with each other on Sunday evening. I would like to say this in connection with Mrs Marijnissen's question. We immediately said that we should immediately ask RIVM for advice on how to deal with this. At least I asked Minister De Jonge if he could, and that was taken immediately. With regard to the security aspects, the debate will first come in accordance with the Security Regions Act and the Municipal Act. If that debate has been, I have already said that I am quite ready to review it with your Chamber. I never make empty promises, I hope. I am looking at Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u411	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u412	Should I stay for the second term? It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u413	I understand the Minister has other obligations. Does anyone object to the departure of the Minister of Justice and Security? Thank you. Have a good night. The President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u414	Mr. Chairman. A few things. Actually, there are two of them. A number of questions have been asked to me about the economy and there was a group of remaining questions. I'll start with the economy. Among other things, it was the event business. We were asked whether we would enter into the conversation there. Events are currently prohibited until 1 September. This is a legitimate, unambiguous and understandable standard. Yes, there are conversations with the event industry, looking at preventing companies from falling over due to the fact that they cannot open earlier. Of course, reporting and licensing events lead to a significant increase in traffic and to the gathering of people. We can't do that without amenities such as plumbing, security, assistance and food and drink. We already have a very substantial extension on 1 July. There is now a huge package as of 1 July, of which it is really only possible to do so. I hope so, and I hope we get good messages by the end of June, but we don't know yet. So, yeah, those conversations are going on, but I really don't want to offer hope here right now. I'm really sorry. I'd love to. The question was also whether the treatment of entrepreneurs differs in the different security regions. The emergency regulations are based on one model emergency regulation on this point. The presidents of the security regions shall agree to the enforcement thereof. As much clarity as possible is sought in the rules, but there is room for customization. This is how the system is set up, which is also necessary, because regional differences can also require tailor-made solutions. Then I'll get to the SBI codes. About 200,000 applications have been submitted by now. A grant of 0.75 billion has been made. Fortunately, the vast majority can be done automatically. One can also report to the RVO if the SBI code does not correspond to the actual business activity. This may be the case, for example, if the business activities of entrepreneurs have changed over time, or if this has not been passed on to the Chamber of Commerce. Twenty-two thousand reports of that type have come in. Many of them have now access to the scheme by extending the codes. There are 9,000 remaining reports. So you're talking about 200,000 reports in total. The remaining notifications are handled by customization. Of these, 2,500 have now been granted access to the TOGS. Of course, we also want to help the other companies as soon as possible. The coffee shops and the sex workers. I understand that you could of course add it to July 1st. You can add everything to July 1st, but guys, it gets so big. I'm just telling you the truth. It'll really sink because of its own weight. So don't do it. Yes, it is also a bit arbitrary what is exactly on July 1st and September 1st. I'm telling you the truth. Of course, we can all try to come up with brilliant arguments here as to why something should happen on 1 July or 1 September. Yes, we have found that our argument was not always strong either. It has therefore been said that the gyms could not do so on 1 July if they all meet additional requirements. However, I really recommend that we first see if the virus has really left with the backpack. I'll also give you the profit warning for July 1st. If you want it all, including the extension to 100 people, then the package will be so large. We have far from the certainty that the virus has left. Tata Steel. I agree that this is very important. It is a large, high-quality company with a great interest for the Dutch economy. I also think that this type of company, Tata, Dow, SABIC, Shell, the major basic industries, by the way in which we have reached consensus here on the CO tax... If there is one country where they could invest in the most modern, non-environmentally polluting technologies, then the Netherlands is. You will also notice that they recognise and say: The Netherlands is made attractive by your way, where we have to move forward on charges, by investing very heavily in our environmental pollution control measures. In any case, we meet eight of the eight establishment criteria for this type of company. So that's what we're doing. I can only say about the content of those contacts with Tata.. Hoogovens, we would say here domestically, IJmuiden................................................................................................................................................................................ However, I can assure you, also towards 50PLUS, that these talks are going on and that we take this very seriously. It's a lot of jobs. Then I come to the questions that were asked about racism. I have to answer those questions, too, but I see someone coming to the microphone first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u415	The Prime Minister was at the economic block, and I would like to ask him about this. Last week this was the subject of the debate on the tax on profits. It turned out that a number of parties, including in your coalition, in my words, were quite capable of pushing for a further reduction in the tax on profits, or at least reconsidering that. Now my question to the Prime Minister is whether he does not think that once again a gift to the big companies with whom things are going well would be quite inappropriate for the companies that make profits in times of crisis. Wouldn't it be much better to invest that money, for example, in a better appreciation for the people who work in care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u416	That's not the issue here, is it? That's for Prince's Day. We have sorted out multi-annual tax measures, which we review every year. I can't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u417	The Prime Minister's reacting a little grumpy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u418	No, I'm not. Business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u419	Oh, business? Oh, is that business?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u420	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u421	Ah, looks like that! Then I remember. But, of course, that is the issue. Look, it is of course the Prime Minister's right to say 'we're going to look at that again this summer', but the question of who's going to pay for the crisis is constantly on the table here. I have also asked him, in my first term, what the cabinet is prepared to do to ensure a structurally better appreciation for our caregivers, is constantly being discussed here. So not only blows, not just a bonus, but a structurally better appreciation for our caregivers. That's what's going on here all the time. That's why I'm gonna ask the question one more time, and then I hope he'll answer it, and then not so... I thought it was grumpy, but I understood it was business. Doesn't he agree that it just doesn't fit right now, in times of crisis, that there's another tax gift going to big companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u422	It is such an incredibly lame way of framing: "tax gift for large companies." Now pay attention! We spend 90 billion a year on health care. Who's coughing that up? Those are people who start a business or they're existing companies that make profits, who pay taxes. It's people who work and pay taxes. Three quarters of the Netherlands do not work for the government or government-related sectors, and that three quarters have to cough up the money for the quarter, like Mrs Marijnissen and I, and the people in care and education, who do fantastic important work for all people. But that money has to be raised. Let's keep a bit real about that, too. I have said it before: the crisis at the beginning of this decade was enormous. The people, the individual income taxpayers now have another plus. The huge minus they had to deal with has now become a small plus again, thanks to economic growth until March this year. Unfortunately, that's probably different now, because of the virus. But the companies were still at a negative level before the crisis last year and this year. So it's really a little cheap rhetoric to talk about presents. There are no presents. You have to make sure that you tax your companies in a real way, as do Mrs Marijnissen and I, but in a way that makes it attractive for those companies to stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u423	I had the impression that the Prime Minister had closed the block of economics...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u424	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u425	The questions must be brief in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u426	...and I had a few outstanding questions. One concerned the smaller campsites, which do not even get the chance to set up coronaproof, but would like to do so. The second question was that a dance school in one municipality is seen as culture and in another municipality as sport. Pilates is seen as a sport and another as a care part. In an interruption with Mrs Van Brenk, we talked about the fact that there are many healthy companies that have been in existence for decades, but have been in the process of transferring them to the next owner just before the crisis, which means that they are not now eligible for the NOW scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u427	She hadn't asked me that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u428	Mr President, I asked these three questions during my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u429	Yes, but then you don't have to think about it in detail, but you just have to go into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u430	I'm going in. One time it's a vibrating record and the other time it's a dance school. I just said: that's really a matter of local regulations. That is what the CDA and the VVD wanted: that we also shape democracy in the cities and in the regions. There are national emergency regulations, but there really is also local customization. We can't solve all that. The issue of these companies and business transfers should really have been addressed in the debate on the NOW that took place last week. I really don't have that ready. I didn't register the question either. And that a dance school is one sport and another culture: yes, that's the way it is. We can't control that nationwide. That is also a bit of an assessment of the security region, but they are listening, so hopefully that will help. These debates will, of course, also help to ensure greater clarity. If only it had been so extensive for five hours, then the debate was still broadcast live. Once again, that those newly transferred companies are not part of the NOW, of course has to do with the very precise design of the NOW, but I don't have that right now. That was in the debate with Koolmees last week. And the third, Mrs. Van den Berg, was?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u431	Those were 2,000 small campsites that would also like to become coronaproof.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u432	With regard to the campsites, I think we are looking at whether we can let them, in the advice we ask the OMT, get involved in opening what is so terribly called 'the wet cells', so the toilets, the showers, etc. That would be attractive because you also want vacation spread. You want people to go on vacation sooner, or later if you can. Anyway, "later" we believe for a while now; it is of course about "previous." If they open earlier, this naturally contributes to the fact that people can also go to the campsite earlier. That's what they're looking at. But of course that also leads to an increase in the number of movements. It is not so much the toilets, but it is of course the showers where there are risks. We didn't want to decide that ourselves, so we're asking the OMT right now. I can control it. As far as the NOW is concerned, I would like to ask you to take this up with Koolmees. As for the question of "sport or dance school," I get it, but I can't solve it here right now. Mr. Chairman. This was the economy. Then there are a few remaining questions. Firstly, municipalities should not be worse off than before. There is not yet a complete picture; that was the question, with a question mark. At the moment, there is not yet a complete picture of a compensation package for the co-governments until 1 June. The aim is now to have a complete picture of the impact of the crisis in mid-July. Of course, the level and extent of real compensation also call for a political and administrative balance, which is based on the assumption that the co-governments will not be worse off than before as a result of the corona approach. It has also been agreed that governments should jointly take responsibility for how they can keep their financial position in order in the new situation, taking into account the State's support, and also contribute to solving the financial problem. The fact is that we, as governments, can never fully absorb or neutralize the blow, so everyone and every sector will have to make a contribution. But again, the image is not complete yet. In the end, the goal is to have that complete picture in the middle of July.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u433	I asked if it was a hard guarantee from the Prime Minister. Can I understand from his words that it is to all these municipalities that they will not go backwards? Because that's what the letter says. So is that a hard guarantee to these governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u434	I don't know exactly what was in the letter. I have here as a text................................................................................................................................................................ The words "hard guarantee" assume almost legal certainty. I do not dare to pronounce them now, because I do not have the letter of File Letter and Ollongren exactly ready. But that is at least the starting point. I can certainly say that. Then there is the strategy. Of course, we discussed this in detail last time. But for the sake of clarity, as you know, the strategy is maximum control. At that maximum control, it's just that no matter how much you try to contain the virus, if it sticks up the head again, by testing and then all subsequent conversations through the GGD's that eventually contain as a main strategy is very difficult, because you have three other things. I explained it in detail last time; I say it briefly. Part of the virus is also spreading under the radar. Moreover, there will always be new introductions of the virus from abroad; we are not an island. Thirdly, not everyone adheres 100% to the behavioral advice. For the sake of clarity, this is a repetition of my explanation in the previous debate. Then there was the question: how will the cabinet work towards a healthy, resilient and sustainable society? Yeah, I agree with that remark. Of course, we do this together with the business community, with young people, with civil society organisations and also with municipalities. Many opinions have also been asked on this subject. Some of these opinions are within, including from the planning agencies and from the think tank resulting from the Gert-Jan Segers motion on how we also organise non-medical advice. That's the Thinktank Corona crisis, which we didn't create, but which founded itself. We like to use them. At the Thinktank Corona crisis, led by Mariëtte Hamer, many SER parties and others are joined. That's what you're talking about: how are you gonna balance working at home and organizing the office and how are you gonna take care of the balance in private business? The prevention agreement that has been concluded is, of course, a different approach to this issue. I very much agree with that point of view. Then there was the question of whether the Netherlands would make bilateral agreements with countries outside the EU, Schengen...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u435	Before you continue, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u436	About that strategy. The Prime Minister is now saying that this is just different from the last time he had the strategy of control, because containment is difficult. Embarking is difficult because people wouldn't stick to it, because you can get introductions from abroad and because it could be under the radar. I think it's true that it's difficult, but I think it's worth it because you're saving sick people and saving the economy. The question I asked was that the Prime Minister did not, in my view, address it as to whether it would not be good and whether he would be open to asking outsiders at this time of the crisis what they have seen in those very difficult months and what we can learn from it for the future. We had a speech about group immunity. We've had a test policy that didn't test and that happened knowingly, so we've heard from the OMT. My call would be: let's use this moment, precisely to prevent new outbreaks and new lockdowns, to ask people outside what they have seen and what the lessons we can learn are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u437	In my view, Mr Asscher does not give a good picture on two points. The first is that I outlined that our strategy is aimed at maximum control. Within that strategy, I have also said that, as was the case with the previous one, the containment of the virus is one of the important policy instruments that we have at the moment. In the end, it's about what your goal is. The target is maximum control. Why? Because you want to make sure that hospitals can handle it and people with vulnerable health and elderly people are protected as best they can. You have a whole set of instruments for that and a very important instrument in it is the containment of the virus at the time the head pops up. That's the exact summary of my words, just like last time. I don't know about a speech about group immunity. I didn't hear that one. Then on his question. That's what Hugo de Jonge started in the first term. We do not think it makes sense at this stage to bring in all kinds of outsiders. That was a request from Mr Veldman and others. What I think is wise is that Mr De Jonge has gone into detail in his term, so perhaps I do not need to repeat it................................................................................................................................................................................................................ They can also be useful, as others have mentioned in the debate, should the virus flare up again: what does work and what doesn't work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u438	The speech in which it was about group immunity was made by the Prime Minister himself. He really hasn't forgotten that. Two. He can say ten times that containment is not a goal but an instrument, but that is not yet true. You can focus the strategy on as few infections as possible. That's what we're talking about here. Every time we get the same semantic roundabout, saying it's an instrument. That's a strategy. He can't convince me of that. We can see that now. What's the least you could do? The counter is at 100 billion in cost to the economy. The counter has enormous consequences for society and a disruption of public health, the health system and a lot of people outside. The least you could do is to calm down for a moment... that fits the leadership style the Prime Minister is promoting here... to ask people from outside... what can you see, what can we do better, what can we learn, what can we do better? It would be incredibly strange for the Prime Minister to say here: that does not seem to me to make any sense. That is a typical characteristic of groupthink, thinking from a tunnel: I don't think it makes much sense to ask people from outside if they can do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u439	Again, I didn't make a speech about group immunity. I don't know him. Again, that repeated. Then there's the strategy. Suppose containment would be the strategy. That can only be achieved in one way and that is to continue the lockdown, fully continue it, for a long time or almost completely continue it in a very intense form. That is not possible and, paradoxically, it also has a negative effect. This will result in people no longer complying with behavioral advice. So, paradoxically, that will lead to more infections. Why is it wise to have a strategy of maximum control? Because you have to acknowledge that there are factors as I just mentioned: the introduction from outside when people come here and don't always always follow the behavioral advice. As a result, it is not entirely possible to avoid that there will still be limited contamination in the future. What you do have to do is bet in your instruments that you contain, that at the time of an outbreak, when the virus pops up, you contain that virus. Well, this is actually a literal repetition, but that's fine from the debate two weeks ago. I also refer to Hugo de Jonge's response to evaluations now and later, because otherwise we will do it twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u440	I also note that this is a repeat, just: it is not fine. I'm asking a very quiet question. It is not because it poops up here, but because that question is also asked in society, including among the experts. I have great respect for how this Prime Minister acted as a crisis manager in this crisis, but he is either unable or unwilling to just listen to the question I am asking and to take it seriously. Because it is indeed repeating and comes up again with the misconception that the strategy of containment could only be achieved with a total lockdown. I'm sorry about that. I do not think that does justice to the importance of that discussion. This is not a semantic discussion, but this is really a discussion about how we can protect the country from disease and economic damage. It may well be that the Prime Minister is right and that it is better to say: we are in control. But it does require a more serious answer. If he is unable and unwilling to go into this in a normal way, and at the same time says that he doesn't think it makes sense for people outside the circle of experts he's already consulting to look into it, then I think the Prime Minister is taking a great risk and a great responsibility for the policy choices he's making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u441	My nugget breaks. Mr Asscher and I discussed this in detail last time. I would certainly like to repeat it in greater detail if he appreciates it. Maybe we don't agree? It's possible. My view is as follows. If containment is the strategy, and if you actually think the Netherlands could do that, then I think you should be honest, too. We can disagree on this. My feeling about this was that we may differ on this last time. Then you have to be honest and say that the Netherlands is going to do something unique, something that no country in Europe is doing right now. All countries follow to a greater or lesser extent the strategy of maximum control. But if you would choose the strategy to contain, as a strategic imperative, then you can really only do so with a long-term continuation of the lockdown. And then you can never completely, or even almost completely, prevent people from getting sick for the reasons I just mentioned. Because even then, of course, you run the risk that people will still come here, or you will indeed have to stop all travel abroad and put maximum police control on compliance with code of conduct. But it will also have a paradoxically different effect. In the end, people will no longer support the measures. The risk is therefore very high that the result is that the virus will spread more quickly. That is why we do not opt for a strategy of containment. We are opting for a strategy of maximum control, for these reasons and weighing everything up. This is, by the way, in line with all the countries in our environment. But in there, if there's an outbreak, we'll do everything we can to contain such an outbreak. And that's what I thought we agreed on. For that purpose, we have discussed the test policy, the source and contact research and all the matters discussed with Mr De Jonge. We think that's very important. This is an important instrument in this; perhaps one of the most important instruments we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u442	Finally, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u443	Finally, Mr President. This is indeed a repeat. Of course that can be because of me; I understand that as well. Still, I don't think that's true. I think that the cabinet, this Prime Minister, has always communicated on two extremes, two unattractive extremes. And then people say: so what I do is right and in line with what all the other countries do. However, I believe that the nature and extent of the decisions taken require the Prime Minister to be more precise about those choices, including in his responsibility to Parliament. We have seen that all kinds of choices have been made from the outset with an appeal to: that is not meaningful. While the question was whether it was desirable. Not everyone was tested. The OMT, who advises the Prime Minister, said that we wouldn't have done that if we could test it. This implies a strategy that is not intended to contain it as much as possible. The Prime Minister does not answer that question because he says: no, it can only be contained with a total lockdown. That's bullshit, that's bullshit. But at least it gives rhetorical opportunity not to face the effects of the choices that have been made. I think that's too bad. I can respect it, because I understand that there are very few choices in crisis time. You'll have to sail on what the experts say. But I think it is important that if we move forward, we do not adopt a strategy whereby we intervene if there are ten people in intensive care three days in a row, but that a strategy is chosen whereby you do everything you can to prevent people from entering intensive care. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u444	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u445	The fact that the Prime Minister describes the extremes of Scylla and Charybdis three times on that normal strategic question, and says that he is moving in between, forces me to ask outsiders: how do you look at the chosen strategy and policy, and can it not be better? Perhaps the Prime Minister is more willing to listen to those outsiders. If you see where we are now, I think it should be a normal administrative and professional reflex to be interested in how to do better and not say "I don't think that makes any sense."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u446	So many things are now being said... I am accused of some kind of debate: I would put down extremes, then we would choose a kind of middle path. No, I'm not saying at all that a country couldn't opt for maximum containment. It could be. All I'm saying is that you have to be honest about the instruments that come with them. This includes saying to the public that there is no other way to do anything to prevent new effects and new disseminations. If they arise, you must intervene immediately. That's the instrument of containment as soon as the virus pops up somewhere. But if you want to prevent that from ever happening, then on 1 June the terraces cannot open. Then we should have kept it closed and waited until it was gone. But then the virus will still be introduced from abroad. What we are doing is also Germany, France, Belgium, Denmark, Austria, Italy, Spain: this is really the strategy of the whole of Europe. There's nothing very exciting about that at all. People often say to me, "What difficult decisions do you and Hugo have to make?" Then I say: "Yes, it is, but at the same time the number of options is also limited." In that sense, it is complicated and the responsibility is large, but it is not the case that you have a whole range of options to choose from. The virus relates in such a way to the population and to the major health risks that you ultimately only have a limited number of options, in short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u447	Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u448	I'm gonna keep going at this point. The Prime Minister says it is a repetition of moves, and perhaps it is true, but I think it is, because it remains unclear for many people, at least for us too. The Prime Minister now says: "I can't remember that speech about group immunity; I didn't have it." I think a lot of Dutch people can remember them. I don't think that's too weird either. The RIVM website, for example, still shows today that the strategy is: to control the virus as much as possible. Three points are mentioned: only people with mild symptoms get it, care does not get overloaded and that's the third point people can become immune, so that the virus gets less and less chance of making others sick. There is talk of "a protective wall around the vulnerable elderly and people with weak health, as Mark Rutte said." This is on the RIVM website about the strategy followed by the Netherlands. The fact is that the Prime Minister does not say "just as few infections as possible" in the objectives of the strategy, but "care must not be overloaded" and "protect vulnerable people." Those two things together make that the feeling still lingers, to say the least, that letting that group immunity and that virus go around is a bit of what is now being chosen. That would run counter to the really decisive conduct of the source and contact research, which is precisely the aim of kicking out the fire, if that blows up. So we want to minimise contamination. Everyone understands that it can't go back to zero, but at least we want to minimise contamination. And every time, the Prime Minister doesn't mention "as few infections as possible" as the purpose of the strategy. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u449	Of course you want to minimize contamination. That is why one of the tools in the strategy of maximum control is that, as soon as there is a threat of an outbreak or as soon as you think you can find it when the virus pops up, you contain it through the source and contact research, preceded by the test policy. Look, group immunity was never a policy goal. That is what I said in the debate after the TV speech in which that word was in. But that speech was not about group immunity; that speech was about the situation in the Netherlands and how we are going to proceed. I also said in the debate on Wednesday after that: that is never the purpose of the policy, should there have been a misunderstanding about it. It can only be an effect that occurs in the very long term. In the meantime, it is clear that this is a very long term and that actually the only route to group immunity seems to be a vaccine. Well, wait for that... We hope it will come as soon as possible, but that can of course take a long time. In the meantime you have to make sure that you contain it, if it pops up. In your strategy, you need to ensure that you protect people with vulnerable health and elderly people and that hospitals can handle it. You can also choose to have the containment completely as a strategic goal. It's possible. Only, then it is part of that that you take away all the consequences of the fact that people do not always comply with all the rules of conduct and the fact that the Netherlands is an open economy, where people come in and carry the virus with them. This also includes that you have any risk that there is on a terrace or in a bar, where someone doesn't stick to the 1.5 meters or so, but there is something wrong with you taking all that away. That's a long lockdown, or almost. I said just now that we are convinced that if it were wise to choose for this, and no one in Europe would really choose for it, then we would be truly unique, that as an additional effect people would no longer comply with the rules of conduct. But there is not a sort of secret pact or a Bilderberg-like club that says: we are going to have the virus around in the Netherlands. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u450	No, but I do note that every time it comes to this, the Prime Minister makes a caricature of the strategy of containment. Maybe he doesn't mean to, but that's how it looks to me. It's just been said. It doesn't have to mean a complete lockdown. It is not for nothing that questions have been asked very often about the determination and decisiveness of the source and contact research. We believe that if you make a firm commitment to this, this strategy of mitigation could be a very successful strategy. Anyway, we can't convince the Prime Minister of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u451	Just for a little while, because then we might agree. You can talk about what your strategic goal is. I'm just a simple person. You have a strategic goal, that's maximum control. Why do you do that? For the elderly, hospitals, people with vulnerable health. But what's your instrument? Indeed, one of the most important instruments is to contain, and we agree on that. That's what the discussion with Hugo de Jonge was about. How do you ensure that you have effective testing policies and effective source and contact research? But there's no secret society that says we're gonna let that go, we're gonna let everyone get sick, and then we're gonna build group immunity. That's really not true. That would be crazy, wouldn't it? Surely that would be contrary to all the goals we have, including in terms of protecting people with vulnerable health? Then there are bilateral agreements with countries outside the EU to allow travel there. It is now the case that we are only looking at the Schengen area, also because we are taking another big step there. This too is exciting. Until 15 June, travellers from outside the EU and the UK will be prohibited from entering the EU. There is also a good chance that this will be extended. By the way, I do not know who needs to go to Morocco now, because Stef Blok is not going to get you back, as I said yesterday. At all events, the whole of the European Union is subject to an orange travel advice for anyone who wants to travel outside the EU or indeed to go into quarantine if you come back from outside the EU. It is very likely that this will be extended. I also said yesterday in the press conference: if that changes, if new insights arise, then of course you will look at it again. But I don't want to give hope to that now, so now it's really not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u452	I understand what the Prime Minister is saying here. On the website The Netherlands worldwide is under the heading "most frequently asked questions": what to do when you plan a summer holiday in Morocco or Turkey? So a lot of people ask questions about it. I also felt like a kind of helpdesk today for people who have questions about that. At the press conference, the Prime Minister also said the necessary things. At the same time, people are currently planning their summer holidays. People are really wondering: "Can I actually go? And when I come back, do I have to go into quarantine for 14 days? What does that mean for my high school kids? And if I go anyway, what does that mean for my insurance: my travel insurance or my car insurance if I go by car?" Can the Prime Minister at least indicate that he wants to do some more work on the provision of information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u453	No, it's perfectly clear. If you're travelling outside the EU now, it's code orange. That's all now, by the way. From 15 June, a number of countries in Europe will be code yellow. We don't think you're allowed to go to two for health reasons. That is Sweden and the UK, as it now looks like. That can change again. Countries may also be added for health reasons. But there are also a number of countries that do not want tourists or tourists from the Netherlands. Then the State Department will put those countries on orange. You don't have to observe quarantine if you're gonna sneak in there and come back. But if you go to a country where health can't technically, you have to quarantine. And quarantine applies to all countries outside Europe, as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u454	The Prime Minister's response to this is very clear. At the same time, people are planning a vacation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u455	So don't do it outside of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u456	Perhaps you could wait for the question, which is so convenient. Italy was a coronavirus fireplace. In other countries where people want to go on holiday, that is not the case. The Prime Minister just indicated that it is rather arbitrary when the branches open: on 1 July or on 1 September. Doesn't he find this arbitrary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u457	No, not at all. We have asked RIVM to update on a weekly basis for EU plus UK and those Schengen countries that do not belong to the EU. Some of them overlap, like the Netherlands. But there are also other countries, such as Norway and Switzerland, which also belong to Schengen, I think, but do not belong to the EU. For all these countries, we actually want to go to yellow. Two countries cannot do that for health reasons. The rest may turn yellow as far as we are concerned, but some may stay on orange because they do not want tourists or Dutch tourists. If you go to a country like this, if you sneak in there and then come back, you don't have to quarantine. Are you going to Sweden or the UK, or are you? If you come back from outside the EU, you'll have to quarantine. If you ask me, what about it?', Then my answer is quite simple. If you have managed to travel to a country outside the EU and then come back, you will have to quarantine for two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u458	Last question on this point, Mr President. The Prime Minister also says he doesn't want to give people hope. He says it can change in the future. Is it not helpful to contact and make good bilateral agreements with countries that are considered the top destination for a lot of people who are connected to them? Is that just not in there at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u459	First, let's go to Morocco. I can't imagine anyone from the Netherlands who has Moroccan roots somewhere in his past when you come from a Moroccan family, I think you wouldn't want to give up your nationality there, while you can see that Morocco is being very difficult if someone wants to come out again. So I really don't understand why people with that background would want to go there. Then I think: we're still trying to get people back into that particular situation. Furthermore, we think that Europe is going to extend it to the whole of Europe, because there are just risks because you can't completely see it. RIVM has all its hands full to determine what Europe is like. Not all countries register exactly. Countries sometimes have different systems. However, within Europe you still have a bit of a way of doing that, also through the European organisation. It's getting more exciting out there. Any expansion is exciting. I really understand that people might also go to Turkey, Suriname, India, South Africa, Nigeria, or I know where I want to go. I get that. But yeah, guys, we're just in a unique situation. We have that virus and we need to reduce the risks a little bit. We can't completely oversee that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u460	So to all those people who want to go on summer holidays, the Minister actually says: it is wiser that you stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u461	We are now saying: do not travel outside Europe. Until June 15, it's on orange anyway. There is a good chance that the whole of Europe will say: we do not want anyone from outside Europe, even after 15 June. That's a good chance. It can change. If it changes, then of course that is very good news for those who want to go to Turkey, for example, but I cannot give any hope for that now, because it is really unlikely at the moment. I have to be honest with you about that. I'm not gonna give false hope here either. We do have a dangerous situation with that virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u462	I can also enjoy myself in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u463	I thought maybe we could all go to the campsite.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u464	And then try to do it outside the school vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u465	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u466	Then there is Mrs Dik-Faber's question about the divine services. Perhaps I can say the following briefly. There is indeed weekly consultation between Minister Grapperhaus of Honor and the religious organizations. He also called them to think about the intelligent start-up of the worship services. The Contact Body Muslims and Government, the Interkerelijk Contact in Public Affairs, the Hindu Council and the Buddhist Union have drawn up protocols in which they show how they want to start and resume their services with the 1.5 meters, taking into account the special character of their services and the prayer houses where they take place. This really leads to a type of customization, where it is not the case that we adopt protocols. We never do that, but of course it helps if a church or a Buddhist temple has a protocol stating how they deal with the rules. The rules are clear. They are about hygiene, avoiding crowds and, of course, the 1.5 meters. So that's good news. It also means, of course, that many prayer houses can open their doors again as of 1 June after a week of closure. We have said that it is justified, but with up to 30 visitors. That is, by the way, exclusive of church staff, the people who are needed there to organise services. We hope, of course, that this number will increase further as of 1 July, but it is not possible to make separate arrangements for this now. It is really important to have clarity in this. I also notice that ecclesiastical organizations are taking this very seriously. By the way, I mean that "carriage" in broad terms. By that I mean the Muslim organization and so on. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the investment treaties. They limit the right of governments to take measures in the public interest. No, I'm sorry, they don't restrict the law of governments. That word is very important. This means that governments can take measures for the sake of corona. This is without prejudice to the need for governments to respect the principles of good governance even in times of crisis. For example, measures should not be discriminatory and necessary for achieving the public objective and should not lead to de facto expropriation without compensation. Those principles correspond to the obligations for public trading under Dutch law. Since these basic principles are not guaranteed in national law in all countries at the same level, they are laid down in Dutch investment treaties, as Mr Klaver said. We have no idea of the acquisition practices of law firms or the likelihood of any claims. So we cannot anticipate that either. Mr. Chairman. Then about the migrant workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u467	In fact, there is a group of experts who say that you should now put in place a moratorium in order to ensure that certainly all kinds of developing countries cannot now, at this time of corona in which all kinds of measures need to be taken, be confronted with these claims. And that is what I specifically ask: is the cabinet prepared to see how we can contribute to such a moratorium? Because we know that more than 10% of the claim judgment based on ISDS runs through the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u468	I shall come back to that in the second term. I shot up all the ammo here. I should like to be briefed on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u469	On the previous point. It is good to hear from the Prime Minister that the Minister of Honor is so happy to enter into talks with the churches. I have been informed by the churches that they have not yet received the invitation to speak about the organisation of ecclesiastical activities. The motion concerned not only the resumption of worship services, but also ecclesiastical activities such as youth and youth work. Being a church in your community means not only worship, but often much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u470	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u471	I am actually asking the Prime Minister whether he would like to convey to his colleague the message that he would be very pleased to be received and would like to enter into the conversation with him. I hope we can read more about this in the next letter from the cabinet. Again, the worship is important, but there is much more, and there are many questions about that too: how should we give hands and feet in practice in this corona time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u472	If only Grapperhaus had stayed tonight! My information is that he has those calls weekly. Apparently, they're listening now. In view of Mrs Dik-Faber's question and my desire to follow up, I would like to ask you to double check: are these talks not only about the services, but indeed about the other activities of religious societies? Anyway, I might now take it too short, but I would like to refer to what Mrs Dik-Faber said about this. Is that part of those conversations, too? I thought it was, but Mrs Dik-Faber says she hears that conversation is not happening everywhere yet. So we're gonna double-check that and pass it on to Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u473	I had also asked questions about this. I understood that the conference calls, which sometimes had a somewhat more brief character, are now turning into an actual meeting and that there is more time to think about bottlenecks and so on. I was wondering whether the specific problem of very large municipalities would also be discussed, that with very small numbers you would have to wait endlessly before you get to it. That has already been mentioned here and that also came back in the motion with 'customisation and perspective'. The fact that this can be taken seriously is something I think is really good for support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u474	Can I then ask the official organisation to give that too for the conversations that Grapperhaus is having? That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u475	Fine. I actually want to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u476	I'm almost through. Two more questions, and then I have to say something about the subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u477	We've been at it for almost eight hours and there's also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u478	Yes! I'm only doing a little bit of that. But yes, it was of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u479	Please continue. Minister De Jonge didn't hear because he's watching his phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u480	What does the Cabinet do to protect migrant workers? The Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport sent a letter on this subject. We try to inform migrant workers in their own language as best we can about the RIVM measures. There is also a dialogue with social partners towards employers and relevant temporary employment agencies to promote compliance with the law including the corona measures, including all initiatives from employers and temporary employment agencies concerning one-and-a-half metres distance, housing, transport. The Hunting Team Protection of Migrant Workers led by Emile Roemer, who has started extremely quickly; so we know him next week with recommendations for the short and long term to address the issues of registration, work, housing, transport, care and borders. Your Chamber will be informed immediately. Then about the Chinese ambassador. The fact that a virus comes from a country is not a reason to file claims. We now face the joint task of fighting the virus. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to a number of questions that have been asked about George Floyd's unacceptable death. Following yesterday's press conference, several speakers also asked how we deal with the fight against discrimination and the fight against racism. As you know, I said yesterday in the press conference that these are subjects that unfortunately are among us in the Netherlands too. Also in the Netherlands there are people who are not judged on their contribution to society, but on all kinds of factors and on a background that they cannot do anything about or for which they have chosen for absolutely honorary reasons, and which are all within the law. In doing so, everyone who is legally resident in this country has the right to all access and opportunities. The only thing I can't change, of course, is the talent of people or their intelligence and what opportunities they have. One is handy with his hands and the other with his brain, but everyone here has their contribution to make. This has led, for example, to the KNVB's plan of attack against racism and discrimination that has been discussed here. That was drawn up in response to those terrible choirs at the game FC Den Bosch-Excelsior. When it comes to the police, there is, of course, a tremendous amount of work being done to protect the integrity of the organisation and its staff. Unfortunately, I said it last night too, despite all the hotlines and action plans in the Netherlands, discrimination and racism are among us. That's what we have to name with each other. It's the most stupid thing you can do, but it happens. In this respect, Mr Klaver's question on "fighting" is both true. Yes, we must ensure in this country, by standards, but also, of course, by all the actions that result from what we all do, that it is absolutely clear that someone who is guilty of this kind of stupidity has a very big problem, with a lot of people in this country, especially with everyone here and with me personally. At the same time: it occurs. What I've always meant by that "fight" is not: just accept it. No, if you're facing it anyway, despite everything that Jesse Klaver and I and everyone else are doing to stop it, please don't sit back in your chair angry. It's terrible that it's happening, but keep going! Knock it off and know a lot of people do that to you. That's what I meant when I was talking about fighting. Not because there's discrimination and we let that go. No, we're all fighting that. But even then it will happen. If it happens then, my appeal to young people, and at all to anyone in this country who has anything to do with it, is because of sexual orientation, skin colour, belief, man or fold or whatever to see no reason to give up. Yeah, you can be mad. It is right to find that horrible, as we all do, but continue. Then this is also a country in which you can eventually achieve anything. That is really my conviction; I remain very optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u481	Let's get back to China. I really have to say that I find it embarrassing the way the Prime Minister deals with the opposition's questions. His answer to my question to make a claim there was: we're not going to ask for money because a virus comes from a country. Please take the opposition's questions a little more seriously. I have made an extensive argument as to why this should be done. That's not because the virus is from China, but that's what I've explained to you, because in the opinion of many organisations, China has indicated too late what the problems and the nature and extent of the virus were. There are reports from the Bundesnachrichtendienst, which is the federal intelligence service, which have just been published in der Spiegel and other media. Associated Press has researched it and said that if the public had been warned one week earlier, the number of cases in China, let alone in Europe, would have been two thirds less. That was published in The New York Times, but also in NRC and the Volkskrant. All these investigations, even those of the World Health Organisation this week, say that China has not been sufficiently alert to being honest about the nature of the virus and its size. If we had known that before, we would have had less trouble here. So I insist that China should pay the price for that. They've acted dishonorably and wrongly. We have paid the price for this, among other things, and we have to pay it to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u482	Of course, we've talked about that before. To those previous discussions we have had on this subject, I would add that on 18 May the World Health Assembly adopted a resolution calling for an independent evaluation of the pandemic approach from the very first moment, which I think Mr Wilders also refers to, to be carried out as soon as possible. Of course, this also has to do with the question of how things are going with the fight against the pandemic. It will then have to show whether and what things may not have gone well, even during that first period. But of course I cannot anticipate that now. This must first be established independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u483	That's the World Health Organization. I do not know myself, but according to many reports about her relations with China, it is not considered to be too objective. But also by intelligence services, including Germany's, not the most foreign country, and by the largest press agency in the world, it has been established on the basis of academic reports by scientists that they have come too late with information in many regions. They wanted to keep it under wraps. They have suffered a lot of that themselves, and I find that terrible for those people in China. But the result is also that we have recognised the true nature of it too late. That is one of the reasons why RIVM said in January: it can never come to Europe; it does not go from man to man. The Chinese knew much earlier that it is transmitted from man to man. They knew that a long time ago, and if we had known that, we could have taken action much earlier. I therefore insist that you should at least enter into the conversation with the Chinese authorities, so that we may be able to recover billions of what it has cost us. They will never be able to compensate for the suffering, but the costs we've incurred can be reimbursed. It cannot be the case that the health insurance premium in the Netherlands is going up and the Chinese get away with it, while they have caused it to some extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u484	Again, until that investigation is decided. On 18 May, in the International World Health Assembly, a resolution was adopted saying: as soon as it can, an independent investigation will take place to see what went well or wrong from the very first moment on. Then you can also see whether things have not gone well or gone well and whether we can learn from it. But I can't anticipate that now, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u485	Thank you. I see Mr Kuzu coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u486	I felt that the Prime Minister spoke in general fine words about discrimination, racism and fair opportunities in society. During the press conference he refused to use the term 'institutional racism' and I wonder why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u487	Because I have the racism debate and the debate on discrimination... Well, it's not a debate, because everyone who's in their right mind is against it. I did that because, at some point, the social debate is also being hijacked by pouring it into terms that are losing a very large part of the population. They think, "What are they talking about?" How's that? And what does that mean to me? I want us to be a little clear with each other, too. If you keep it clear, anyone who's in their right mind understands that you can't accept that people are discriminated against on these kinds of characteristics. If you don't comply with the law, you may be discriminated against. Anyone who abides by the law and makes a positive contribution here, or even if someone does not want to deliver, but does stick to it, simply does not have to be discriminated against and has nothing to do with racism. I'm telling you the truth, but I always find it a little tiring that it quickly turns into a very complicated sociological debate on institutional racism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u488	Mr President, I do not want to make it a debate on discrimination, but there is no denying that a number of elements, in terms of discrimination and racism, are in our institutions. We have had extensive debates recently, and those debates are far from over, about what happened at the Tax Office. As far as the housing market, the internship market and the labour market are concerned, I think we will soon agree, but it is not true that you can say that it is something of society and that it is being hijacked by a number of people? The Prime Minister's message is actually very good, namely getting fair opportunities and no distinction based on origin, background, religion, orientation or whatever. But it is also quite clear that it is in a number of institutions and that we must get rid of them. Then why do you have so much difficulty in using that word and recognizing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u489	But these institutions are made up of people, aren't they? An institution doesn't have a will of its own, does it? In the end, it is people and what I think you are doing by talking about institutional racism in general terms is losing a very large part of the population. It will certainly occur in places and in some unique cases it is sometimes so deeply rooted that you can talk about institutional racism. But when people hear such terms, a very large part of the population will say: I am against racism and discrimination, but I am not going to accept that I am being accused of doing so because of an institutional framework or that I do so unconsciously. Then you've lost a lot of people, and at least you've lost me again. Then I think, guys, you're making it way too complicated; don't do that! Speak to people on a very basic sense of decency, a very basic sense of how to keep a society whole, how to ensure that you can move on well with all of you in the country. And celebrate the difference, value the differences. This ultimately leads to better decisions, to more growth, to more culture than when we are all here made up of white men from the early 50s.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u490	This reminds me very much of the discussion and the debate when it came to: fight in the labour market. That was the Prime Minister's message against Muhammad. I said at the time: the Prime Minister can also send a completely different message, because he can condemn that discriminatory employer very strongly on what he is doing. And this reminds me of that. Because when we say that people are guilty of discrimination, racism and discrimination, those people are in organic systems, institutions, which makes the character of an organisation and an institution discriminatory and racist. Then I think that the Prime Minister can also give an additional message by looking at the way in which we have set up systems in this country. He can therefore give the message that we must tear that out in favour of those people who feel unfairly treated. Very simple! Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u491	I was just saying, I was just trying to say that it's both true. Yes, you must do everything you can to combat discrimination and racism. You do that by standardizing, of course by legislation, you do that with action plans, like what is happening now at the KNVB, with the support of the cabinet, because of what happened during the Den Bosch-Excelsior competition. That was making something visible, of course, which is much deeper. Look at what Memphis Depay said at Beau yesterday about what he gets thrown at his head in terms. We are not going to repeat these terms here, but they are so deeply racist and so deeply revolting that you do not even want to repeat them literally here. It's so painful. At the same time, where I think we live in a country where the vast majority of people don't want to, it happens. And what I said then about fighting, I hold on to: that if it does happen, then Muhammad, or Piet who is gay, or Thea who cannot get a job as a woman, should be able to count on that moment that Mr. Kuzu and I and everyone here are behind that person. That person should be able to count on it. And it should also be able to count on us to set up all the systems to prevent it. But it's happening anyway. And what I said with fighting is, at a time when it does happen, know that you have that support. But please, be right to be angry. Consider this something incredibly offensive, something that touches you deeply and deeply, but continues. Because then this is also a country, and that optimism, I won't let anyone take me away from me in which you can achieve anything in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u492	Finally, as far as I am concerned. It was not so long ago that I myself had not spoken of institutional racism, that I would have given about the same answer as the Prime Minister. That's a sociological concept, it's about what it means and you have to explain it to people understandably and not reject it. But I have had a lot of conversations lately, not only with young people dealing with racism, but also with, I will not say older people, but with people of the Prime Minister's age. Men and women who have to deal with this their whole lives. They told me: Jesse, an understanding of institutional racism may have a sociological significance for you, but it is important to us that the leaders of this country use these concepts. We then see that they understand what this means to us. Instead of saying 'I do not want to lose the rest of the Netherlands', we could say that we have to show the group that is discriminated against and suffers from racism that we understand what they are fighting for. If they include concepts that help them, I think it is our duty to use these concepts as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u493	I get that. I'd like that, too. I also recognise that there are, of course, places where institutional racism occurs. But I don't want to take this as a general term, no matter how much it might help these people, I understand that very well. This also means that you say something to people who honestly think they don't, but who then hear Mark Rutte say "yes, but you do run a very big risk of institutional racism, if only because it is very common in your environment." I recognise that people want us to use that term more often because it helps them, but at the same time you are also alienating part of the Netherlands from this discussion. As Prime Minister, I want us to have a very large tent, literally, in which we with 95% civilized Dutch people in this country experience this normative experience together, and then fight it in our behavior. And don't say in there that you might be at risk, sister and all, because then people are gonna fight it. That's a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u494	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u495	Definitely in conclusion. I think this is a good debate because it hits the core. I think you have to be very careful to name people racist, to say someone is. If you start with that, the conversation's almost over. I don't think many people in the Netherlands are at all. However, racism and exclusion may still exist. Just the pain people feel by talking about institutional racism, the pain they feel when they think, "Am I perhaps a racist?" It's also necessary. We've been talking about racism for years, and the action plans are killing us. If there is another choir on the stands of a football stadium, then we are all back on our feet. But the point is that there is so little change in practice. That's why it's important that it's uncomfortable. It's also uncomfortable, it also hurts when you see that you might judge someone differently based on someone's origin, even if you didn't mean to. What I'm watching for is that we live in a society where we couldn't name it, where it's not clear, and where we don't give anyone the chance to say, "Oops, maybe I've misunderstood." In the end, we have to get together, because this country, in order to speak in the words of the Prime Minister, must be one very big tent in which we can live together. For that is that difficult conversation, that pain that other people will feel who never have to deal with racism themselves, that pain is needed in this whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u496	Mr Klaver rightly mentions the choir. That happens is horrible. We all know that there will also be people underneath who wouldn't have wanted to shout that, but who would have gone along in some sort of group control. That's the worst thing you can do at the time. You want someone to get up and walk the road less traveled in that group and say: listen, this is not good, this is wrong, this is destroying this country and destroying the people we're targeting these choirs, this doesn't make any sense, it's stupid. We agree on that. That is the group compulsion or urge or whatever it is that sometimes makes people in groups do things that a number of people do out of total conviction, but some others walk along with it. For me, that is different from saying that, however much you are not in favour of discrimination and racism, you still run the risk of being somehow pricked by that institutional racism, which can be part of your behaviour. Then a lot of people who don't feel it at all get the feeling they're getting something stuck up that they're not. This is exactly what we're talking about. I've been through some big changes myself about Black Piet. I also belonged to the group that said "Black Piet is black." I have said this before, in Question Time and at other times. At times when I met people with dark skin and little kids who said "I feel incredibly discriminated because that Piet is black," I thought that's the last thing you want at the Santa Claus party. But if you were to force it the other way around from the government and decree that that Piet should never be black again, you know you're gonna hit a lot of people who love that tradition in the head. It's a tradition that's changing over time and I'm not expecting any Piets to be black anymore in a few years. It is a popular culture that changes over time under pressure from the social debate and people do not want that pain. There are also people who say, "I have no desire to be forced, while I am totally non-discriminatory or racist, to let go of that symbol that I have never seen as a discriminatory symbol." That makes this discussion so nuanced and complicated. In every time I was allowed to talk about that, I've always asked to keep an eye on that nuance. The risk of the term 'institutional racism' is that you lose a very large group of people who are not at the core. A group of people who are decent and say "I don't want to get stuck up that I apparently go into a group culture and don't know that myself," however much that may be true in a number of environments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u497	We are here to debate from 2 p.m. and it is a very important subject, but I do not understand why this is going to happen after 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u498	We're a long way from corona, I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u499	We don't have to talk about it all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u500	But it's also nice that we're talking about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u501	Good. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also like the debate. I think that the Prime Minister's own experience is important, which, like most people in the Netherlands, had no idea, because we all grew up with it. At some point, you're told it hurts. "Oh," you think, "I had no idea I was hurting anyone with this. Now I know and I can change." It is precisely this experience of the Prime Minister that should teach him that this is what this is all about and that it is precisely the naming of racism as an 'institutional' that says that we can all do nothing about it that we have grown up in this system and with these thoughts? The only thing that has to happen is that we must be open to the fact that we can unintentionally hurt others with another reality. We need to be told that and then we can learn and change from it. It would be so nice if the Prime Minister didn't say "I'm going to impose from above that Black Pete is no longer allowed" but simply told from his own experience that he didn't know it either, but now and now he thinks "we shouldn't do that anymore, because we're hurting people with it." This is meant by 'institutional racism' and I shall now put my question, Mr President, because it will indeed be a very long debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u503	And now a very long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u504	Also.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u505	And it's all of a sudden about Black Pete, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u506	I will ask my question, which I also asked in my first term. Talk to those people who go out on the street to demonstrate! I think they can very well share their experiences with the Prime Minister and then you come to a good approach together. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u507	Yeah, I already decided that. I'm definitely gonna do that. And not necessarily with the domes again, I really want to talk to people standing there. That's what I wanted. Finally, on this point, because it is precisely at the heart of the debate on institutional racism. The moment you find that a Pete who is black for people with dark skin sometimes or often or in cases, but you never want to do that, leads to pain, it is true that something happens that was unintentional, but works out that way. It is still very important that a society itself has the opportunity to change that. Because the moment Mrs.Ouwehand or Mr.Rutte says that they can't do that anymore, while people say that they never meant anything racist about it, they don't have the chance to decide how they want to deal with it. Traditions and popular cultures change through time. I've referred to that beautiful seventh novel by Voskuil, the desk. It is about the Meertensinstituut and it is about popular culture and he was the one who brought that popular culture out of fascism shiningly to modern science as one in time shifting traditions and cultures. He didn't see it as a folk person who's stuck and can never change. A beautiful series that shows in beautiful Dutch how it works. What you don't want is for people who don't mean that in any way, to be blamed for being in an organization where they do. They want to decide how they do it, at what rate and what it means to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u508	Yes, you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u509	That is why I have such difficulty with the concept of 'institutional racism', because I hope that it will ultimately lead to less acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u510	Mr President, I will just be brief, otherwise I will say the same thing again. The Prime Minister's own experience: that is what he must promote, because that is going to help. His commitment to speak to the people of this broad movement, Black Lives Matter, how is he going to do that? Is he gonna invite them to the Cat House? I'm really happy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u511	I was gonna, but I'm gonna do it my way. The last thing I want... I talked to young people yesterday who I was able to select exactly how it happened, I don't know, but it was a super cool conversation with ten young people who are now following up on my call: start the revolution! It was a nice conversation, the NIS rightly said, but at least there were fantastic initiatives, which were already being carried out. And yeah, I'm gonna talk to generation Y next week, LAKS and you name it. This was incredibly inspiring, because it wasn't the organized clubs for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u512	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u513	That is exactly what I want with this point. But how I'm gonna do that, I'm really gonna decide for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u514	Thank you. Is Mrs. Ouwehand getting a report of that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u515	No, she'll see that in the media. It's really something of mine. That's what I'm gonna do, but not for the House of Representatives. I do it because I want to, not because Mrs Ouwehand asks. I think it's important to me. I challenge Mrs Ouwehand to do the same. Then we're gonna call each other and exchange experiences. But no letter to the Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u516	We're not going to discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u517	I'd like to pin it. Excuse me, that's an ugly word. People at home are thinking, "Oh, good, the Prime Minister's gonna talk to me." It can't be noncommittal. I think we should be able to see what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u518	It's noncommittal, because I do it my way. Seriously, guys, this is gonna go wrong because I'm gonna have to send a letter to the Chamber later about a conversation I had with a group of people. I'm not gonna do that. Mrs. Ouwehand, here's the deal. She's gonna have a conversation like that. She is going to put together a group, which she thinks is about what yesterday in Arnhem and today in Rotterdam is demonstrating and you name it. I'm gonna do that, and then we'll call each other. We'll even grab a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u519	Deal. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I understand there's no need for a short suspension. We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What an embarrassing display when the Minister of Justice arrived and put everything back under the carpet together with the Prime Minister. What an embarrassing display of the mayor of Amsterdam, who has to leave quickly. I won't repeat it all. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet to dismiss Mrs Halsema as Mayor of Amsterdam and as Chairman of the Amsterdam-Amstelland Security Region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-389]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u521	Then, Chairman, I had a debate with the Minister of Medical Care on the health insurance premium. I said it shouldn't rise and promptly jumps a message on a website that the premium would increase by €250 next year. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the care premium may increase by €250 as a result of the corona crisis next year;]] [[calls on the Government not to charge the cost of care related to corona but to cover it through the budget by cutting asylum inflow and climate expenditure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-390]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u522	Finally, Madam President. Despite all the demonstrations against racism, yesterday, after the demonstration in Rotterdam, the statue of Pim Fortuyn was smeared with the word "racist." I believe that we in the Chamber should vote against this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that yesterday after the demonstration in Rotterdam, the statue of Pim Fortuyn was painted with the word "racist";]] [[declares that this is unacceptable and unacceptable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-391]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u523	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the cabinet for answering all the questions in the first term. In order to speak a few more sharply against each other, I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the measures taken to combat the corona virus have been particularly significant;]] [[Whereas, after the steps forward, with the relaxation of measures, there is a chance that a further step back will be needed;]] [[Whereas it is important to know the positive impact a measure has had on the objectives set, but it is also important to know what social damage has been caused, both economic and health damage caused by deferred care;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the findings and results of the measures taken since the outbreak of corona, with the aim of identifying the usefulness and necessity of re-imposed restrictive measures, informing the Court of Justice and involving them in any necessary follow-up steps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Diertens, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-392]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u524	Then a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas relaxing measures requires a good and rapid testing policy in order to be able to carry out contact research as quickly as possible;]] [[Whereas a good and rapid testing policy with associated contact research can prevent any new regional outbreak;]] [[noting that, following a test request, a rash is known within 24 hours and thereafter after 48 hours;]] [[considers that this will take too long for contact investigations to be carried out;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the GGD, RIVM and laboratories, to reach a target standard of up to 48 hours in order to accelerate the lead times in the process of testing and the start of the source and contact research, and to inform the Court within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-393]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u525	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the governors for all the answers they have given. I would particularly like to thank the Prime Minister for the debate we have just had on racism. I'm glad he's going to have those conversations. I also really hope that it will lead him to see how important it is which concepts you use and that he will see that it is important that we name the pain that exists when it comes to racism, even when it affects other people. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about ISDS. The Prime Minister had, as usual, far too quickly all his gunpowder spilled. To make sure I get an answer to that in a moment, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the COVID-19 pandemic has forced governments around the world to take exceptional measures;]] [[Whereas international law firms are exploring ways of challenging these measures through ISDS clauses in investment treaties in order to claim compensation for multinationals;]] [[Considering that the United Nations has warned against its harmful effects and that a group of international experts has called for a moratorium on new ISDS cases until an international agreement in principle has been reached on how to deal with corona measures and ISDS;]] [[Whereas more than 10% of all known ISDS cases have started under the flag of Dutch investment agreements;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore the possibility of supporting the call for a moratorium and to inform the Court as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the process of modernising existing bilateral investment agreements where possible and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-394]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u526	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for the answers and also Minister De Jonge for the commitment to go into more detail on the dossier in the next letter, whether or not to ventilate or how. Furthermore, I have already tabled a motion with the VVD on the importance of testing and shortening the trajectory. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas for family members and residents of institutions for people with disabilities and persons with disabilities living independently, the measures related to COOVID-19 have had a significant impact;]] [[Whereas the one-and-a-half-metre society of these target groups poses new questions and choices to us;]] [[Whereas institutions for people with disabilities and self-employed people with disabilities should prepare for a possible second corona wave;]] [[Whereas a COVID-19 strategy has been drawn up for people with disabilities or chronic illness;]] [[invites the government to consult with the field on how to prepare for a return to "normal" life, or how to prepare for a possible second wave, and to inform the Chamber about this after the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Berg, Dik-Faber, Van der Staaij, Wilders, Asscher, Krol, Kuzu and Van Brennk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-395]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions, so I'm gonna start fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas COVID-19 still has a significant impact on the residents of nursing homes, their relatives and their caregivers;]] [[Whereas the cabinet and the executives of institutions have taken far-reaching measures;]] [[believes that every effort should be made to prepare residents and employees for a possible second wave;]] [[Whereas it is important to learn from practical experience in the field of hygiene, nursing, personnel policy and customer welfare in the future;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with independent experts, client organisations, professional organisations and industry organisations, taking into account the experience of healthcare staff, to draw up lessons on the measures taken and the policies to be implemented within nursing homes in the near future;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of Parliament of this matter before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers have achieved a tremendous achievement in treating and caring for patients with COVID-19, which has rightly been applauded;]] [[believes that caregivers deserve more appreciation than they currently receive;]] [[Considering that the OVA space for 2020 established by the Ministry of VWS is significantly lower than in 2019 and 2018;]] [[points out that now is the time to give more structural value to caregivers;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan for structural valuation for caregivers, in which better working conditions and a better salary can be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-396]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-397]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u528	Thank you for all the answers we received. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that keeping distance helps in preventing and spreading the coronavirus;]] [[noting that there are American airlines that choose to keep the middle seat free in a row of three;]] [[Whereas the OMT has not yet given an opinion because it has not yet been requested by the Government;]] [[Whereas on 15 June several travel advices and more flights are planned;]] [[calls on the Government to request an OMT opinion on the spread of the virus in aircraft as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to take a decision by 15 June at the latest on rules for keeping sufficient distance in aircraft,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Diertens, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Kuzu, Mr Krol, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u529	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said in his speech that in anticipation of a medicine, a vaccine, we can slow down the spread of the virus and at the same time build controlled group immunity. That's what I was just talking about. It seems to me that now that we are at this stage, it is important to help others to further improve policy. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas we need to be as prepared as possible as the number of COVID-19 infections continues to increase;]] [[calls on the Government to give independent advice before 1 September on the lessons to be learned from the measures taken to combat the virus and where such adaptation, modification or extension is necessary in the event of an increase in the number of infections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u530	I think it's strong to do that externally, given the discussion here. Since the cabinet does not consider this to be appropriate, I shall, for the sake of certainty, table the same motion again, but without the 'external' and 'before 1 July'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to indicate the policies that have been taken which need to be adapted, modified or extended in the event of an increase and which measures are already being taken for that purpose, and to inform the Court of 1 July of deployment and timetable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people unable to work because of COVID-19 may be in financial difficulties;]] [[noting that the Cabinet obtains legal advice on whether people who have to stay at home are covered by the disease law;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that people can be sure of a financial provision if they have to stay at home because of RIVM directives, even if they have no complaints themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-400]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u531	Finally, I like to hear when we hear more about the bonus for the people who work in care. It's been a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u532	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u533	Thank you, Mr President. I had an exchange of views with the directors on all kinds of matters concerning corona, in particular with the Minister of VWS on nursing care and the visitor scheme. I have outlined the distressing situations. I think it is extremely important that we find a solution, that we look to the future and that we can make nursing care and visits dignified again. Too often I see examples that are directly opposed to them. Mr. Chairman. That is why I would like to table a motion on this matter. I didn't mention the position of client councils in my term. I was reminded of that by one of the viewers of this debate. Not for nothing has the Christian Union in the past wanted to strengthen the position of client councils. In that context, I would like to table this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas residents of nursing homes who are corona-free from 15 June may receive more than one visitor;]] [[Whereas basic safety, including hygiene, infection prevention and protection, is an important factor in all nursing homes contributing to the prevention of new infections, thus allowing visits by relatives;]] [[Whereas recent visits to nursing homes have often taken place under far from ideal conditions;]] [[Whereas the completion of the visit by relatives in nursing homes should be possible on the basis of trust and tailor-made arrangements between doctors, relatives and care staff;]] [[calls on the Government to support the nursing home sector, where appropriate, in the process of putting basic safety in order, drawing lessons from past experience, with a view to preventing new infections and the deep need for close contact between residents and their relatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Veldman, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Diertens, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Asscher.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u534	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his commitment that he wants to talk to people from the Black Lives Matter movement. Really nice; thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Then the animals. There's a lot to be done there, so I've got a couple of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in more and more slaughterhouses large numbers of staff appear to be infected with the corona virus and that a number of slaughterhouses have already been closed for this reason;]] [[noting that this is already beginning to lead to overcrowded stables and even higher pressure on the remaining slaughterhouses, resulting in major risks to animals, staff and public health;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a (partial) breeding ban in livestock farming as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is going to kill all mink on the holdings where the coronavirus has been found, called "clear";]] [[noting that mink breeders intend to fill up their stables with new mink, thereby maintaining the risk of the virus remaining in this sector;]] [[points out that mink should not be re-entered into the stables of "clear" holdings;]] [[calls on the Government to take care of this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-403]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Krol and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-404]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u535	Mr. Chairman. I have one very brief motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to allow holiday flights in any case until there is an OMT opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-405]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas lifestyle, including movement, is of great importance for good physical and mental resistance;]] [[Whereas elderly people are at home during the outbreak of the corona virus, dare not leave the door and therefore move even less;]] [[noting that additional funding will be available for measures such as Healthy School and Young People on Healthy Weight;]] [[calls on the Government to allow special mobility programmes for older people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the people most affected by the corona virus are also most vulnerable to a heat wave;]] [[Whereas vulnerable elderly and people with other conditions are more difficult to reach due to the restrictions imposed by the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to review the National Heat Plan for the coming summer, taking into account the corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-406]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-407]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u537	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for seeing and, of course, supporting the importance of Hoogovens for the Netherlands. In the Jeugdjournaal was the father of Roos and Floor, who were worried about his job at Tata Steel. I am therefore very pleased that it has been promised that the cabinet will continue to work for this, because many families depend on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u538	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u539	Madam President. First of all, thanks to the members of the cabinet for their reply. I would like to make one motion in response to the small debate with the Minister of Justice. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, in the current crisis situation, there should be no doubt about the authoritative action of Presidents of security regions, given their essential role in the national crisis structure in combating the corona virus;]] [[Whereas, on the second day of Pentecost, on the basis of an exceptionally rapid procedure, with incorrect estimates, under the responsibility of the President of the Amsterdam-Amstelland Safety Region, a situation arose in which the one-and-a-half-meter measure was seriously infringed without any enforcement action, which resulted in an unacceptable risk of health damage;]] [[Whereas the Council of State considered that the chosen crisis structure is a mixed form of a regional system in principle, with a strong central direction, giving a particular role to the supervisory role of the Parliament;]] [[invites the government, in addition to the debate in the Amsterdam City Council, to consult with the Amsterdam-Amstelland Security Region in order to determine after hearing and to inform the Chamber of the measures to be taken to prevent repetition, and to consider whether it is appropriate to reach another chairman of this security region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-408]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u540	Finally, a question to the Minister for Health. I do not think he has yet answered my question as to whether an additional impetus can be given to a discussion on how financial thresholds are reduced for relationship and family therapy. That's the question I had. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u541	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u542	Mr President, thank you to all four ministers for giving the answers in the first term. I've got two motions. Motion number one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the event industry sounded the alarm bell to the government;]] [[noting that the event industry has drawn up a sectoral protocol to comply with the corona measures;]] [[Whereas the sector should be given scope to resume its activities within the measures in force;]] [[Whereas the application of corona measures should allow for tailor-made measures;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the event industry of, among other things, wedding rooms to explore the possibilities of relaxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prime Minister admitted at his press conference on corona that people in the Netherlands are judged on their origins;]] [[noting that thousands of people, despite the coronavirus, have gone out to make a clear noise against racism and discrimination;]] [[Whereas the Tax Administration has committed ethnic profiling;]] [[Whereas there is ethnic profiling by the police;]] [[Whereas primary school children receive primary school advice because of their origin;]] [[Whereas housing market discrimination, labour market discrimination and internship market discrimination exist;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to state clearly that there is institutional racism in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a coherent integrated action plan on discrimination and to pursue it vigorously,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-409]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-410]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u543	When dealing with the multifaceted monster of racism and discrimination, we do not have to have a scandal every time to make an action plan about it. This must be comprehensive and coherent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u544	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema. I don't see them. Then Mr Krol, on behalf of the Krol/Van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u545	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also for the commitment of Minister De Jonge to look again at the Sanquin emergency call. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a strong need for more blood plasma donors who have healed from corona;]] [[noting that homosexual and bisexual men may not donate blood until four months after sexual contact;]] [[Considering that in 2019 the Chamber asked the government with a motion of D66 and GroenLinks for an independent investigation into a donor selection policy based on sexual risk behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to implement this motion in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in the short term whether and under what circumstances it is possible to donate plasma to homosexual and bisexual men who have been cured of COVID-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u546	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u547	Thank you. Now Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u548	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is unclear within which sector dance entrepreneurs fall and therefore when they are allowed to reopen their doors;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the dance sector and to make it known as soon as possible when these entrepreneurs can start up again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that events, including fairgrounds, are not allowed until 1 September 2020;]] [[whereas amusement parks such as the Efteling have already opened the doors, and that there is therefore now a strong inequality;]] [[calls on the government to re-establish symmetry in the measures and to allow the carnival industry to start earlier than 1 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-412]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u549	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u550	Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the motions, towards Mrs Dik-Faber ah, there she is about the contacts of Ferd Grapperhaus with the ecclesiastical organizations. It is not his responsibility to talk to churches about their more general social functioning, as in youth work. It is more obvious to discuss this with the trade ministers in these areas. He's trying to facilitate this. I must make that point, otherwise he will now be responsible for the whole church youth work, and he attaches great importance to the fact that this will not be taken away from the rulers concerned. Moreover, there is good informal consultation between him and the petitioner, Segers, on the implementation of the motion. So that's what's going on. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 389 by Mr Wilders. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 391 by Mr Wilders is not a question to the cabinet, but I can imagine that he will make it. Judgment Room seems to me, if I had to say it. Then the motion to part No. 392. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 394. Dissuade. Why do I betray her? That has to do with the following. There are sufficient safeguards against unfair claims in the Netherlands. The State has broad jurisdiction. On the basis of the general principles of good governance, the Dutch State can implement policies for the general interest, even if this would adversely affect the profit expectations of investors. If, on top of that, what this motion is asking for also announces a moratorium on claims, we will deprive investors of any form of legal protection, and that is a licence for regimes to randomly expropriate or nationalise companies. An example of this is Uzbekistan. The tool to file a claim is there because there are doubts about a normal course of justice in some regimes. Without this legal protection, investors will invest less in those countries. The protection of investors is also enshrined in bilateral agreements between the Netherlands and countries in, for example, Africa. We cannot withdraw these treaties unilaterally, because investors have based themselves on such a treaty and legal protection in it. That is why we do not want to consider a moratorium. But the motion actually contains two dictators. The first one we really don't recommend. If that first operative part were to lapse and the last to stand over the process of modernisation and so on, then it would be: Court judgment. I like that last operative part. Anyway, I'll get the core of the motion. I can easily imagine that for Mr Klaver the first operative part is much heavier than the second. So, on balance, we don't recommend it. Maybe I'll hint at an agreement, but I don't think it's gonna work. The motion in part No. 399 belongs to the Labour Party. With reference to the Veldman motion, I advise against the motion in part No. 399. The Veldman motion has our great preference. I also refer to the debate. Dissuade also applies to the motion in part No. 400, also with reference to the Veldman motion. So the motion in part No. 399 and that in part No. 400 are dissuaded. The motion in part No. 408 I don't recommend. And why is that? Because Fred Grapperhaus, the minister of JenV, also emphasized the timeliness. This is up to the council first. And if the Council sees fit to do so, the Council can turn to the Minister through the Commissioner. It is really important to maintain this continuity here. That's why, considering everything, I'd like the motion in part number one. 408 dissuade. On the motion in part No. 409 the following. I have already said that we are talking to the event industry to see whether and how all this should be feasible or possible. What's in the motion? "Asks the government to engage with the event industry..." This motion is therefore superfluous, but that is also so childish. So yes, I can also say: Judgement Room. That might be nicer. There's nothing in it that's wrong, is there? We're already doing it, so... judge Room. That's a little nicer. The motion in part No. 410, I'm not sure. I explained this in detail during the debate just now, so I do not need to repeat it. The motion in part No. 412 and those in part No. 413 are also not recommended, with reference to the debate. Mr President, it should be so that at the end of this whole process all motions have been recommended. We didn't coordinate that, so if there are holes, we'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u551	Good. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u552	Thank you, Mr President. First, I come to the motion on part No. 393. It invites the government to reach a target standard in consultation with the GGD, RIVM and laboratories. The stakes are already in place: the appointment within a day and the result within a day. So that looks a lot like those 48 hours, so I feel at home with that target standard. However, I would like to say that I am committed to having this consultation and also to stressing the fact that there is a target standard. But I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 395 the government is invited to consult with the field on how to prepare for a return to "ordinary" life. This concerns institutions for people with disabilities. I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. This is very much in line with the discussions we have had with parties on the covid strategy for people with disabilities, the strategy that has been drawn up. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 396 is about drawing lessons. As indicated in the first term, this motion really follows on from what we are doing now: learning and improving. This could take us a step further towards drawing lessons for the near future. So I'm leaving judgment to the Chamber here, too. In the motion in part No. 397 calls on the government to come up with a plan for structural valuation for caregivers, in which better working conditions and a better salary can be achieved. I didn't quite see the cover in this motion. And by the way, of course, we just do that in the labour condition talks that are just being held. An additional amount shall be made available annually for this purpose. That contribution is 1.1 billion this year. Nice collective agreements have already been concluded, for example in hospital care. That's 5%. In the vvt it is 3, 5%. In short, I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 398: I am also going to discourage it, because it ignores the fact that the aviation sector is an internationally operating sector. There are also international guidelines developed on the basis of international medical standards. EASA is not the industry organisation, but the European Aviation Authority, I would like to emphasise. EASA has translated the medical guidelines into operational advice to the aviation sector and now the aviation sector itself needs to draw up protocols on the basis of those international directives. They must, of course, comply with the advice given by RIVM, at least as far as aviation in the Netherlands is concerned. I have therefore indicated that RIVM can, of course, give advice on these protocols, and will do so. But that's not OMT advice. The RIVM gives suggestions to come to those protocols. I promised that in the first term in the direction of Klaver. With that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u553	You've seen that the motion is widely signed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u554	Yeah, I've seen that, but that doesn't make me madly excited, Mr. Chairman. It ignores what I have said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u555	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u556	Then the motion to part No. 401: "calls on the government to ensure that people can be sure of a financial provision if they have to stay at home because of the RIVM guidelines." With reference to the debate I had with Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher and to the letter, I would like to ask if the authors would like to continue the motion and give Koolmees the first opportunity to do what he intends to do, as described in the letter sent last night. Then we can have a debate on that. So I ask you to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u557	We're gonna hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u558	At the request of Mr Asscher, I propose his motion (25295, No. 401), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 414/2000. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u559	Then the motion to part No. 402: "Calls on the government to support the nursing home sector, where necessary, in putting basic safety in order, drawing lessons from past experience." We have discussed this in detail. In that connection, I should like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 403 calls on the Government to introduce a partial ban on breeding in livestock farming as soon as possible. At present, that is not a proportionate measure. Of course, we are keeping a close eye on the situation. Sectors themselves are already taking measures to reduce the number of animals. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 404: "says that in stables of 'cleared' companies mink must not be placed again." The stables are empty for a few months due to cleaning. In addition, the transport ban still applies. That also makes it complicated to put new minks in the stables again. In addition, I look together with the Minister of LNV at whether and how a stopper arrangement can be discussed. This sum doesn't make it possible to re-fill cleared stables in the short term. That's why I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 405: "calls on the government not to allow holiday flights in any case until there is an OMT opinion'. I just explained that. I'm not gonna ask OMT advice on that. Aviation will make protocols on the basis of international guidelines and the RIVM will advise with it. I just explained that. So I'm going to advise against this motion, too. Then the motion to part No. 406: "calls on the government to make special mobility programmes possible for older people'. This is a motion from Mrs. Van Brenn. There is already a lot at this point, it is also really a municipal matter. So we're also going to dissuade this motion. Then the motion to pieces. 407: "Requests the government to review the National Heat Plan for the coming summer, taking into account the corona measures'. I don't recommend that motion. There's really no need for that. There's always plenty of room for all kinds of customization. The RIVM will put a Q&A on the site on how to deal with the heat plan in relation to the corona measures. But that doesn't require a review of the heat plan as such. So I'm going to advise against this motion, too. Then there is a question from Mr Van der Staaij, because I am through the motions. That is a bit of a repetitive question, and that is: do you want to engage with parties that do easy-to-access relationship and education support? We talk all the time, but Mr Van der Staaij's question comes back all the time. I'm just starting to think it might have something to do with the end of that conversation. This conversation often raises the question: could you help us with funding? Our answer is: that's not really a matter of government, but a municipal matter; so make sure you offer yourself at municipal level and get started. But that is not enough to suit the interests of these parties. Then they come back and they talk to us again through Mr Van der Staaij's question, but that's starting to be such a repetitive story. I think it is fair to say that there will be no national funding. I want to talk in every possible way, but that doesn't suddenly mean national funding. I think we should be honest about that. Then there's the Van Kooten-Arisen motion. That was a question from the PvdA: has it already worked out? I really liked it worked out, but it's really incredibly complicated. 'Cause what target group do you do? How do you reach that target group? What is the amount of the bonus? What is the form of the bonus? What is the form of the arrangement? How do you manage the execution; do you do it via the employers, or via VWS? We're doing a lot of work on that, but it's a really tough job to do that in a good way. I'm not going to take any longer than is strictly necessary. I really want to do that before the summer, because I promised. I really do. I hope to have an effect in the short term. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u560	Is it about a motion or a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u561	No, that was Mr Asscher's question on the Van Kooten-Arissen motion. That motion was about bonuses. That puts me through the motions and the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u562	Thank you. The Minister for Medical Care has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two more motions. The motion in part No. 390 we'd like to dissuade. First, we want to gain further insight into the additional costs of corona. Moreover, we do not agree with the proposed coverage. Then the motion to part No. Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, I wanted to dissuade them first because there is a broader investigation into what is the time frame for gay and bisexual men to give blood plasma after their last sexual contact. I would imagine that we would await that investigation first and that you would like to continue the motion until then. So my suggestion would be to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u564	I don't see Mr Krol moving. What is the verdict if Mr Krol does not hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u565	Then it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u566	At the motion in part No. 408 the Prime Minister just indicated that the problem was in timeliness. That's why I want to change three more letters. The operative part states: "Ask the government next to it." That's what I want to make of it: after. After the debate. In my view, the problem of timeliness has then been resolved and the motion can have a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u567	No, I am sticking to the judgment, because that also presupposes a result of how this discussion will take place in the Amsterdam City Council. So I'm maintaining judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u568	Mr President, I would like to make it easy for you to do something so late in the evening. I'd appreciate it if I could get some indication of how long that would take, but then I'm willing to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u569	That's about the motion in part No. 411. A few months, the Minister says. Are you holding the motion, Mr. Krol?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u570	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u571	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (25295, No. 411) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u572	That brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-10.u573	We will vote on the motions next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the two governors, the MPs, the messengers, the Registrar, the technicians and everyone who has followed this debate.
