ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister to answer the questions raised yesterday in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. If you will allow me, I would like to make a few introductory remarks and then put the answer in parts. I thought it was good to start, also because of the actuality of the last few days, with the medical image surrounding the virus and, coupled with that, the social impact of corona in a more general sense. So that's as one block. Then there's a second, a little bigger block. I tried to split it up, but I can't. This block contains the support package, the more general picture of public finances and, related to it, the issues of labour market and business. Once again, I've tried to cut it up, but I've only made one block of it. So that'll be block two. Block 3: The Netherlands in the world. Then I will go into questions that have been asked about care, climate, housing market, education, discrimination and racism and justice and security. And a few things that don't fit under those cubes. Then I hope to hear at the end of Mr Asscher's day that I have answered all the questions and, of course, those of everyone else here. I'm going to try to answer all the comments that have been made. I shall begin with a single introductory remark. This is in line with what many Members of Parliament have also said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	You may continue!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u4	Oh, excuse me. I thought there was gonna be an interruption. I shall begin with a single introductory remark which will be in line with what many of you have said in this Chamber. It's actually about the cliché, so slowly, but unfortunately it's not a cliché that corona is incredibly deeply interfering in our lives. That was a common thread in all the contributions yesterday. If only it were a cliché; it's a fact, it's even very true. In the last few days and weeks we will also be able to get back to it in a moment with our noses pressed on the facts. The virus is among us. Apart from the actuality of the last few days, that virus is already six months and a few weeks among us. My TV speech was now just over six months ago. They are, as was said here yesterday, the everyday things that are no longer commonplace: for people who worry about their health, about the health of not only themselves but also their parents or their own children; for people who miss the proximity of family, of friends; but also for people who say: my work is no longer the same. In addition, people for whom it is even so bad that their job is also under discussion, or the future of their business, about which they no longer have the certainty they thought they had. Everyone is asking you, me, everyone in the Netherlands: how long will this take, and when will our lives return to normal? The new normal is at most a very temporary normal, but never a permanent normal; that would not be acceptable. We saw it again last Tuesday. The king spoke of a sober and a different-than-other-Princess Day. I believe that everyone who was present in the church last Tuesday, in that beautiful Great Church, but also everyone who followed it at home, has lived that way: different than usual. It was almost alienating, like you were in a Willink painting. Let's hope, now, that next year this beautiful tradition can continue in the normal way, with all the rituals and all the decorations and all the decorations that go with it, and of course with all the MPs, all the secretaries of state and all the guests. I thought there'd normally be about 1,000 people in that very small living room of our Knight's Room, and now we had just under 300 in that very big Big Church. By the way, it was beautifully organized, despite the place. It was done fantastic by those who had to organize it. Mr President, thank you and the President of the United Assembly. The question we have asked ourselves over the last few days, which at least I have asked myself over the last few days, is whether we would automatically have different general considerations this year than usual. I think it depends a little on how you look at it. Here too the army is, both in the room and in box-K. You saw that when the group chairmen spoke, the section of their own party filled itself a little more, but not quite, because of the 1.5 meters. And yes, if I look back on yesterday, then this debate is also very strong in the key to corona. That was also apparent from the very first period yesterday. I think that is also reflected in the government's budget and plans for next year, because without corona, the economic figures would look different and the rich budget would look different. That is inevitable and perfectly logical. At the same time yesterday there was also room for some reflections for the longer term. I've taken a lot of notes on that. There were a lot of things I thought there was a lot in there. There were also things that I might not entirely agree with from the point of view of this cabinet. Perhaps you will challenge me a few more times today to say something about that longer term yourself. But at least I've taken a respectful note of that. I have no doubt that at least one thing will be normal, namely that we will have a fierce debate today, at least solidly, because there are more than enough problems to solve. Not everyone looks at these solutions in the same way. That is democracy, and that is politics. Mr President, I should like to conclude my introductory remarks. When I look through my eye hairs, at the same time I see a country that has a socio-economic starting point that allows us to deal with this crisis, this corona issue, especially in comparison with other countries. First of all, it is a country with people who have shown enormous resilience and are willing to assist each other when the need is for the man. But in the last six months, it has also been a country in which the cabinet, parliament, the opposition and coalition have been able to find each other in these times of crisis. In any case, that gives me something, and I hope to be very confident that, despite this difficult time, we are going to get out of this together. Maybe we don't know all the answers yet. I'm telling you honestly, I don't have all the answers either. There's still fog. On points there is still fog, both in the virus and in the way it continues with the economy. But we're gonna get out of here. That's what we've been showing you, and we're gonna keep working on it together. We will not agree on everything and there will also be debates on all kinds of issues after today, but I would like to end by saying that today we will try to put the answer in the key to that sphere of cooperation over the last six months. We will seek broad support for our plans and for the sensible compromise that our country is moving forward. This applies not only to me, but also to all colleagues who are normally in box K, but are now physically not present. They follow it remotely and support me. I would like to say this as an introductory word in response to the general atmosphere of the debate as I experienced yesterday, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u5	I was also in that debate and I remember another part of the debate. The Prime Minister is, of course, right to say that much of this is about corona. But, yes, it is the General Political Reviews. It is about the general state of the Netherlands. You have now given an introduction for about ten minutes, but I would also like to talk about what ten years of Rutte has now meant for the Netherlands. You've made a huge mess of that in ten years, Mr. Prime Minister. I understand you don't want to bring that up, but the Dutchman needs to hear that. You promised people money in their wallet, but they're still waiting for that $1,000. You promised to limit immigration. The boundaries are wide open. New immigrants come in every day. You have promised to put the Dutch interest first. But you have only distributed money to European countries. And finally, you promised to make the Netherlands safer. But the Netherlands is more unsafe than ever. You can't walk around in some neighborhoods at night without being mugged. You have made a mess of the Netherlands in ten years. Why don't you say something about that? Why do you flee into the naturally important theme of "corona" and are you not talking about the general state of the country, which you have made a mess of for ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u6	Okay. The game is on the wagon. One month after ten years ago, when I had the honour to take over and I knew Geert Wilders by my side as a tolerating partner in the first Rutte cabinet, the Netherlands was in a very bad position. That was not the fault of the cabinet that we alternated; this was due to the great economic crisis in which the world was at that time and to which the last Balkenende cabinet tried conscientiously to formulate a response. The election results were what they were. We have worked very hard for ten years to ensure that it would be better both economically and socially. This also has to do with the question: how will the Netherlands remain? This also has to do with issues relating to migration and about our free democratic values in the Netherlands, which are not self-evident and which must be defended. But it also has to do with the question of how do we keep our society together? A society in which people look to the other, in which there is an inspiring connection. And there's been a terrible amount of work to keep the country safe. That also has to do with our position in the world. We're not an island. In recent years we have worked hard on the position of the Netherlands in that world, embedded in strong international structures. The latter is crucial for a rich little country, because you can't do it alone. I'm not gonna say everything's perfect. Not even for corona. I am not going to mention the historically low unemployment rates and the historically high employment rates. I am certainly not going to point out the high economic growth compared to that in other European countries and all the other things that have succeeded. Things certainly didn't work out; that's absolutely true. However, I would believe that it is possible to look with some kind of kindness at what the last Cabinets have brought about. Mr Wilders himself contributed to this during the first few years, and the Cabinets subsequently, with the Labour Party, did so, with a lot of support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u7	Anything but mildness. Why do you keep asking for kindness? First for your own colleague Grapperhaus; for him you ask for kindness and mercy. Now you ask for kindness for yourself, but you've just made a mess of it. Once again, let us finish briefly. That $1,000 for the Dutch? They didn't get anything. A little plus next year, but if you count the local burdens, it's gonna be a big minus. You give billions to the Italians, the French and the Germans. And the Dutchman, when he is retired, reduces his pension. What do you think the pensionados in the Netherlands think that you do give money to abroad and make them bleed? Look at immigration. A stricter asylum policy was even a slogan in the VVD election programme. But there are 750,000 non-Western immigrants, almost a city like Amsterdam. You would put the Dutch interest first, but you have become a europhile. You're only doing what Mrs Merkel says. And finally, when it comes to security, I said yesterday: you are talking to Black Lives Matter and to Kick Out Black Piet, but the mother of that daughter who is being called a cancer whore every day by Moroccans, whose son must kiss the shoes of that scum, those Moroccans who make the lives of those people uncertain, completely abandon you. So you have not done anything in these important areas. You are the prime minister of deception in a corrupt country. We may be able to talk about this later. Yesterday you might have laughed at me, but this morning on the front page of a morning newspaper in chocolate letters, "Corruple leak shockes police." And I didn't even mention the police yesterday. The Netherlands has deteriorated considerably with you, Mr. Prime Minister, in ten years' time, and you are the primary responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u8	Our country has, of course, had to deal with major issues in the last ten years. At the beginning of the ten years in which I was allowed to be Prime Minister, we are faced with the aftermath of a very serious economic crisis which has led to far-reaching measures and reforms. These were necessary, but they have ultimately led us to very high economic growth rates and high employment rates. We are also faced with terrible events, such as the terrible event with MH17, which killed 298 people, including 196 Dutch. That is an issue that still concerns me and a lot of people every day. And we're working to bring that to the best of end for the next of kin. We can't bring back their loved ones, but we can do everything we can to get justice. We are now faced with the corona crisis, to which we as a country, together with 17 million people, face. I find the following special about the Netherlands. It is a bit the image of the port of Rotterdam after World War II. It was operational in a few years and then it worked again. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, it was... I mean, it That's Holland, too. We have little respect for hierarchy. We're practical. Mark Rutte is just Mark and Geert Wilders is Geert, and that's how it's supposed to be. But at the same time, we're there when it's necessary, shoulder to shoulder. We will still remain critical, as it should be; that is democracy, but we stand shoulder to shoulder and try to solve things. Over the past six months, I have experienced this more than ever in those ten years. I am glad that we have built the apple for thirst in the years before, so that we can now cope with the crisis. There were also those who said in the years before: spend more. But then we would not have had that thirst apple that is now so badly needed to be able to make all these costs now in order to keep up as many jobs as possible through companies, as well as the government. So I'm glad. No, not everything went well. Things haven't gone well either. For example, with regard to the issue of refugees, for example, it has not yet been possible to reach a common approach in Europe, which would make the Netherlands still attractive as a rich country to people travelling within Europe because it is not going well at the external borders. However, we managed to make agreements with the Turks, when a very large group of Syrian refugees came here in 2015 and 2016 and they mainly chose Sweden, the Netherlands and Germany in the first place. So things did work out, too. But, sure, things didn't work out either. But all in all, I think we should all be proud of a very special, strong and proud country, a country with freedom of speech, a country in which you can love whoever you want, in which you can marry whoever you want and in which we defend the values together. All these things make us who we are. The fact that Geert Wilders can discuss this with me is an achievement. That is our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u9	We have a beautiful country and we have great people. All we have is a terrible Prime Minister. We have a prime minister who hasn't kept his promises in ten years. And after ten years, please allow me, as leader of the largest opposition party, to charge the Prime Minister for what he has promised, on how he left the Netherlands after ten years? The Netherlands has become an unrecognizable country. You can't walk into the city here in The Hague or trip over the headscarves. The Schilderswijk, Channel Island: we have problems in our neighborhoods that you do not address. In the meantime, you're bringing in more from Moria and other parts of that country. You have Dutch people who have big money problems, millions of people with a pension who are afraid or know that they are being cut short. Meanwhile, you give money to Italy and Spain. You're not doing what you promised. You would close the borders, at least limit immigration. People would notice it in their purchasing power. You'd make the Netherlands safer. You'd do all that, but you didn't. And stop with the cheap generalities, like "this is a beautiful country" and "we're doing it together." You must be paid to fail for ten years. People are going to choose, people are going to vote, next March. You must take fair responsibility for the fact that you have deceived people, that you have fooled them, that in ten years you have not made the Netherlands a more beautiful country, but you have created a country where people can live harder, where they no longer recognize their own street and culture, where you have thrown Black Piet in front of the tram, where you have brought Islam into, where you have taken the elderly and baked the Italians. Well, that's not the Netherlands of PVV. Next year, people will have the chance to deal with ten years of Rutte's mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u10	What I intended to do in 2010 was to take all the necessary measures in a crisis in order to get out stronger in the end. That's a real red wire. I believe - and this is not my credit - that we have all managed to take great steps in this country on all these major issues such as public finances, jobs, purchasing power, pensions and tackling the climate problems. As a result, we are now really high in all those states in the world that are about how happy we are, our innovative strength, our competitiveness, the number of jobs we have here and our growth potential. Many countries in the world look admirably at the Netherlands, not by me, not by Mr Wilders, but by 17 million Dutch. I was proud to be in charge of that process at that stage. This includes taking responsibility. This also means that in difficult circumstances you do not run away, but stay seated and continue to be responsible. I was proud that the voter has offered me that opportunity in the last ten years. We'll see how things continue with me and my party. I still have to decide what I'm going to do in person. If I wanted to continue, my party would have to find something of that. If I didn't want to go on, they'd have to find someone else. But, we'll see. Today is not about the March elections next year. I would like to say this to Mr Wilders: there are very few people working on the elections outside this Chamber. People are working on the things they're really worried about right now. They wonder if they and their children will still have a job, they are worried about security in an internationally unstable world and they wonder whether the Netherlands still remains the Netherlands, even at this difficult stage. Those are big issues that people are working on. They're not doing elections. That is the whole of The Hague, I say to Mr Wilders. I think it's about the country now and not about ourselves. Mr. Chairman. I come to the first subject I would like to address. That is the issue of the corona crisis. Mr Van der Staaij mentioned hypertrophy in the fight against coronavirus. We do work here on Colijn's compass. "No state absolutism, but the task of society," I quote Colijn. The fact that this has been achieved together is due to what we have done together in society. First of all, this is because of the people in health care who have had to do their job under extremely difficult conditions. But the virus isn't gone. In fact, it's doing a comeback. I want to say something about that. Today, a letter was sent by the cabinet. Yesterday, 1,542 new positive tests were reported. The day before yesterday there were 1,379. So the number is rising rapidly. It's rising too fast. The number of hospital admissions is also increasing by 16 per day. Right now, 245 people are in the hospital because of the virus. Some regions are even relocating patients to other hospitals, because it is getting too crowded. Unfortunately, the reproduction number..... we have all become experts on this point.... is now almost 1.4. It's probably higher in some security regions. This means that this can lead to a doubling in a very short time. People often think: it grows by 100 to 150 a day. No, because of that 1.4, it grows from that new base every day. You'll get that hockey stick up. The development is now even so that Belgium has turned the provinces of North and South Holland on red. Germany will do that as of today. That rising line is very worrying. So we have to do everything we can to prevent a second wave. We are always working on the principle that the measures must be proportionate, balanced and effective. One of the basic principles is that measures are voluntary where this can be done and are mandatory only where this should be done. In this context, we work as closely and locally as possible. One of the things that we have decided is that you can read this in this morning's cabinet's letter that, in view of the rising figures, we are moving forward this Friday with the scaling-up of the regions in the following levels of risk: vigilant, worrying and serious. We were gonna do that next week, but we're gonna bring that up. For example, it is transparent for residents and visitors of regions that measures differ regionally and why. We are currently engaged in intensive consultations with the relevant security regions, where the infections are highest. So these are also the security regions where cities such as Rotterdam, Amsterdam and The Hague are part of. But now these are also security regions where Leiden, Utrecht and other areas are part of. The majority of infections occur in the 20-24 age group. This is because there has been a marked increase in social movements and there seems to have been a reduction in compliance with the basic rules. But they're not just young people. We are also seeing an increase in the other age groups at the moment. In short, it is time to turn the tide. It is important to reverse the trend again. In contact with the cities we look for additional measures. I can't anticipate that right now. Those conversations are going on. We expect to do so in the short term, as it now looks like, tomorrow evening. This is necessary and important. I want to share this with the Chamber here. You will understand that I cannot now say what measures they are, because this consultation is taking place. I would also ask you to understand that colleagues will not be attending all of the debate today. They are in contact with the regions and they are also being advised by the authorities so that we can make a decision tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u11	Do you have all your points that relate to corona...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u12	No, about corona, maybe just one more comment. A question has been asked by the fraction of D66: how do we recover life as long as the vaccine is not there, what risks do we want to take? We try to work on the development of multiple rapid tests at this point and we follow the development of innovative tests. Yesterday, for example, a new TNO test method was in the news, developed with subsidies from VWS. This seems promising with the results within an hour and using materials that we can also produce in the Netherlands. There are also new rapid tests on the market. We're working under the guidance of the RIVM to validate them all. If properly deployed when validated, they can certainly complement the test capacity. They can also create space for for example, on a scale asymptomatic testing in specific groups, in workers in certain situations or at events. But again, before people who listen now think, "Good, where can I get that test?', It's not that far. That process is under way. The same party, Mr Jetten, asked for experience in other countries. We have said a few things about this in the lesson letter of 1 September. You can actually see that the guiding principles do not differ substantially internationally, but that the implementation is different. So you can see that all countries are working on an app or already have it, that it is considered crucial to keep clusters of infections in focus, that we are looking at how best to organise home isolation. You can also see that many countries are struggling, including us, with scarcity of test capacity; look at the United Kingdom. Even Germany with its impressive laboratory capacity has had to decide to stop testing incoming travellers because of the pressure on the laboratories there. As you know, we are working very hard to get the test capacity, which was on schedule, on the number of tests we expect to need. But demand exceeds capacity, also because people who have no symptoms have been tested. So if you're looking now: please stop doing that; be tested only if you have complaints. In addition, there is intensive contact with Denmark, because there are many interesting insights that we can learn from. So we constantly look at the experiences in other countries. There was also a question about the PCR test, which would give 30% wrong positive results. That number is based on a theoretical exercise. There are misconceptions in it. The test itself is more than 99% specific. This means that there is less than 1% chance that the test is wrongly detecting the coronavirus. That chance gets even smaller when labs test for more than one piece of the virus. This also depends on the exact workflow of the laboratories. A further question has been asked about protective equipment. You know, see also the letter on this from the cabinet that we have been working in the Netherlands to build up sufficient stock. But if you finally decide on preventive use in nursing homes or other institutions, for example, then of course it will have an effect on the stock. At the moment, analyses are running on what that means. There is in itself sufficient stock to cope with peak consumption as in the period March-April for ten weeks. But now, with the possible extension or, in fact, a partial extension to preventive use in nursing homes and other institutions, this is being reviewed. We have a lot of supplies, but by the end of September we know if we need to scale up further. That's what I'm talking about when it comes to stocks. Maybe finally at this point. Mrs Marijnissen asked whether there was any understanding of the emotions of people working in the care sector, partly in the light of the lack of protective equipment. I have just said in my introductory remarks that in fact all the group chairmen have done how much the admiration for care professionals is. Last Sunday I had a meeting with Tamara van Ark, the Minister for Medical Care, with a number of nurses here in The Hague, at the Westeinde Hospital. I think it's called different these days, but if Hagenaar I keep calling it the Westend Hospital. A fantastic conversation. We come later to talk about salary etc. in the care. There are a lot of emotions. There too people say: "We have not yet recovered. Physically it has been such a thump, people have died in health care institutions, the absence of disease has occurred and there was uncertainty as to whether we could handle the wave." People were wondering if they could work safely. Most organizations deal with it fantasticly. Most people can also go to their own organization. If they want to talk outside their own organization, it is heavily supported by the Ministry. For the more accessible support, coaching, through the program Strong in your work, can provide extra coaching for the care. If it's more complex and even goes towards PTSS-like complaints, which you don't hope but which you can't rule out, there's the contact point psychosocial support for care professionals, ARQ. We will continue to do so in the next phase. This is also in response to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, who asked a related question. (NL) Mr President, very briefly: no vaccination pressure if there is a vaccine, but of course we are going to try to ensure that the vaccination rate, if there is a vaccine, is as high as possible. That's really important to protect yourself and others. Mr Heerma asked whether there would be a national pharmaceutical company in cooperation with a number of European countries. It's being worked on incredibly hard. Reshoring in the Netherlands is not easy. It is about diversifying global production chains and building buffers, including to cope with short-term market distortions. Moreover, this concerns all medicines, because it is extremely difficult to select vital medicines. Eventually, every cure is vital if you need it. You can't do that alone; you have to do that in a European context. I can say that the VWS Minister is at the forefront of this issue, first with the German colleague and then with Italy, France and the Commission in terms of obtaining vaccines, but also with regard to further regulation of global production chains. Then I think that, apart from Mrs Van Brenk's questions, which I would like to deal with separately, I have answered most of the questions about corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u13	I have Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Jetten, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Haga. Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's gonna go completely wrong with the testing, let's be clear about that. I often get the feeling that we are back to March/April. We have often asked for sufficient testing capacity and laboratory capacity, and this has been promised very often. What we see now is that school classes are being sent home again, that test streets are being closed and that the source and contact research can often no longer be carried out as we wish. Good source and contact research and tests are the foundation of the corona approach and the containment of the virus. Does the Prime Minister recognise that the failure to put in place sufficient testing capacity and laboratory capacity is dangerous both for the health of Dutch people and for the expectations of our economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u15	Things aren't going well here. That's right, but I'm not going to answer the question with yes, because there are some assumptions in it that I don't share. Let me answer this very precisely. The test capacity is strictly at the level we thought we would expect. But you can see that the level is higher right now. You can see that the number of tests exceeds the estimates so much that laboratories can't handle it sustainably. We now need 200,000 tests per week, which means that we ask a lot of people and machines, and that also leads to problems. This has to do, among other things, with many more people being tested without complaints, which is not the motto. We are working with man and power to substantially expand that, along all kinds of paths. You can now see in many countries that there is a shortage of capacity, including the test material. But that is being worked very hard, so that we work towards the numbers we need. But what you are saying is true, and that will not be enough in the coming days, in the next week, perhaps in the next two weeks, although it is being worked on. We've been honest about that, too. Then about the source and contact research, the BCO. What you see there is that it is indeed very important to keep an eye on the virus. At the end of September, the GGD has completed an integral restructuring plan and then has been scaled up to a much larger number of BCOs per day than at present. As things are moving so fast, this means that the regions where capacity problems arise due to the higher contamination pressure must move to a more risk-oriented form of BCO. This does not mean that there is no BCO, but that the GGD does not do everything itself and that patients themselves are asked to call contacts. In itself that is not unusual, it also happens in venereal diseases. You don't really want it at corona, but it's not like nothing's happening. The contact investigation will continue, but in a different way. And, of course, this can only be done by ensuring, step by step, that capacity is further built up. What you see when it comes to testing is that all of Europe, even Germany, is currently suffering from a shortage of material. That's not an excuse. That's an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u16	So this is a very dangerous situation. The Prime Minister says that the source and contact research is certainly not the way we would like it all to be; the test capacity will not be fixed in the coming weeks either. I find it really too easy and really irresponsible for the cabinet to reject that responsibility. That's what's happening now. It is said that people who do not have complaints will be tested and that is why the test streets are full; we could not have foreseen that either. An appeal has been made to everyone in the Netherlands: "Let's do this together. Together, we need to control the virus. If you have any complaints, even if you don't have that feeling at first instance, go to the test street." Then people do that and lack capacity. So I think it is very dangerous, but frankly I also think that the cabinet cannot make it towards Dutch people in order to discharge that responsibility. At the beginning of the crisis, we had the thought of each other: we all felt attacked. But this can't make the cabinet feel mugged. We've known for months that more tests would be needed. We've known for months that more laboratory capacity would be needed. In the meantime we see one laboratory after another reporting with the message: well, we can handle more. Why doesn't that happen? I'm asking the Prime Minister. What's behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs Marijnissen's last point is the general point. I don't think we're hiding behind anything. We give the facts. That's part of a crisis. We're just supposed to report what's going on. The honest answer is that at the moment there are shortages in the field of testing and also that the way you prefer the source and contact investigations, namely entirely from the GGD, is not always possible. But that doesn't mean they don't happen. You have to organize it differently. You have to ask the patients to play a big role in that. You don't want that. So you want to get back to a situation as soon as possible where the GGDs can do it again for the most part. So we're not gonna put anything off. It's the facts as they appear. Unfortunately, they occur in many countries. I believe that at the moment we have really taken all the steps to solve this problem. For example, I would like to refer to the point that Mrs Marijnissen made at the end of her intervention: the purchase of new machinery, with a guaranteed supply of materials, and the conclusion of contracts with foreign laboratories, for additional capacity. Three weeks ago, contracts were signed with some major suppliers. That's starting to build up now. This will be partly done in the Netherlands. Think also of a tender for laboratories so that they can pool quickly where possible. We are now also looking at what is needed for the longer term, in case it goes much further. Then look at the conversations that are going on to realize high volume laboratories in the Netherlands using materials from their own production. So we are working along all these lines to get into this problem. If I, or the VWS Minister, are in contact with the foreign colleagues myself, we can see that this is an approach that is currently being followed in almost all European countries, in order to catch up as well as possible. But at the moment there is a real fact that is a tense, even an overstretched, world market. So it's not an easy job. This also means that there is no constant certainty and that it will sometimes be necessary to establish temporary emergency connections and make agreements. You don't want to, but that's not to be avoided in this crisis, at this stage and with these numbers. Then it is my job to report these facts fairly to the Netherlands and to the last press conference, and to ask people to deal with them as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u18	I believe that the Prime Minister's responsibility extends beyond those honest facts. These are all things that we could have prepared for and have been asked for very often. The efforts are there, but we've been hearing that for months. That's exactly the problem. Our main concern is that because the testing and the source and contact research are not sufficiently in order, we lose control of the virus. But we also see that the cabinet itself loses control. Take the press conference in which it was said: source and contact research is scaled up. Less than 24 hours later, it turned out to be scaled down. Take the story of Secretary Grapperhaus. Nota bene the minister who has to maintain the one-and-a-half meter measure does not comply with it himself. Now we have the tests again. The appeal of the cabinet was: be tested especially in case of complaints, even in case of minor complaints. Now the weather is: you've been tested too much; we can't take it all anymore. We're gonna have a press conference tomorrow. To be honest, I find it rather uncomfortable that tomorrow we have to sit in front of the TV again and only then to hear what is coming. I understand that the presidents of the security regions will probably get a bigger say in it. I just hope that this is not another shift of responsibilities. 'Cause that's what I'm worried about. Does the central responsibility still lie with the cabinet, with the Prime Minister, if it is estimated that we are losing control of the virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yes, of course the responsibility always rests with me in the end. Sure. I'm never gonna shove anything off on anyone. But of course we have agreed in our strategy that we are now in a phase where you must put out the fire, but in which you must also avoid taking measures for the whole of the Netherlands if that is not necessary for the whole of the Netherlands. That's why you're going to work more regionally. But the mayors, the presidents of the security regions, can be assured that they will receive all our support. They can take measures themselves, but they can also say that we need a national indication of what measures we will then implement. We are completely open to all these variants. That conversation's taking place, too. That also fits in with the strategy. Just, uh, we're gonna pull it up. Those scaling levels and the way we do that would come out next Tuesday, but we want to bring that up because of the rising figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mr... Excuse me, you weren't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u21	Well, there were all kinds of other elements in Mrs Marijnissen's question, but I think I have already included them in my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u22	I myself do not think it is very happy that the Prime Minister compares himself with Colijn when it comes to this crisis, because the problem is, of course, correct: do you take it seriously on time and do you have a strategy that is sufficiently focused on really curbing that virus? We talked about this a lot, but then it was dismissed as semantics. The fact is that the Cabinet is losing sight of the virus, if not lost. The fact is that we can see that second wave coming in the distance. The question that has just been asked is not without meaning. It is about whether the Prime Minister acknowledges that too little has been tested and that too little is being tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u23	Right now, anyone who wants a test is also getting a test. Only, there are waiting times and you don't want to, because then you run the risk that people won't wait for that test at home. But in itself, anyone who wants to be tested will be tested. We're just asking you not to if you don't have any complaints. Let's talk about Colijn. It is good that Mr Asscher makes that point. If I have given the impression that I want to compare myself with this great man: no, not at all. Definitely not. There are specific aspects of his premiership that you might not want to be compared to. I mentioned Colijn when it came to the question: is it state discipline or is it something we, as a society, do together? On that point, I believe that Mr Van der Staaij was right. In that sense, I mentioned Colijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u24	The question I asked was a follow-up to Mrs Marijnissen's question: does the Prime Minister recognise that too little has been tested and that too little is being tested? That question is not so difficult; you will have to acknowledge it. After all, the test streets that have been announced with a lot of bombs are closed again. Thousands of people arrive every day. After all, people get the message: there is no place; you may be able to go to the other side of the country in three days' time. I do not think it is right that we should always refer to others: people would be tested without complaints. The facts show that the percentage of tested positive increases. It would therefore be a much more logical explanation that people with complaints are properly tested, but that the spread of the virus continues. Why do we have to mark this? Because it has huge consequences. This whole debate, the budget and the plans of this cabinet can be put in the trash if the cabinet fails to prevent that second wave. General references to general scarcity were legitimate six months ago, but in this Chamber not one, not two, not three, but at least ten times were asked for the assurance of test capacity. It's been given, and it should be there. The difference between a second wave and a second wave is thousands of people's lives and hundreds of thousands of jobs. So the follow-up question I want to ask the Prime Minister is: how much time does he give himself to get the test capacity in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr Asscher's speech shows a few assumptions which I must analyse. First of all, the assumption that I would have said it was up to others. That's not true. I've said it's always my responsibility to make sure things are in order. However, I do appreciate the fact that there are problems with testing capacity and testing material throughout Europe. That is not just a Dutch problem. I'm not running away from that. We're working very hard as a team to fix that problem. The second point he made was about Schiphol, the test street. It's aimed at people who don't have complaints. That's a test. It's interesting. We also provide relevant information with this, but we must now prioritise at a stage where there is a limited test capacity. So that's what the Cabinet does, and then this isn't a priority right now. It is not the case that we take more risks by closing that test street, because people who have no complaints and come from an orange travel area still have to respect themselves and follow all the rules. It's like scanning for cancer, which people sometimes do abroad. I understand people do that sometimes. That gives you a little more certainty, but you never know what's gonna happen an hour later. You don't even know if the virus is gonna hit. So just to get more information about that, that test street was there, but not because it in itself contributes to the fight against the virus. They're people who don't have complaints yet. If they do have complaints, they can just be tested and even need to be tested. I also find it difficult to establish a link between the issues of testing and the development associated with causality. That would really be too short for me. We are now seeing a rise in the number of infections throughout Europe: in France, in Spain, in Belgium, in England, in the Netherlands and also in other countries to a lesser extent. It varies from country to country, but in many countries it is now rising. This also has to do with many issues surrounding the spread of the virus. That is why it is especially important to keep an eye on it as closely as possible. Therefore, it is also important to get the test capacity and the source and contact tests back in order as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u26	If the Prime Minister says he sees it as his job to give the honest facts, then he should. He does point to others when he says that the problem with the test capacity arises because people are tested without complaints. That's not substantiated. The percentages of positive tests do not indicate that. So I don't think that's a factual statement as an explanation for the fact that things are not going well right now. Two. Those test streets at Schiphol Airport were subsequently reduced to a quasi-scientific test that would be interesting, but that's not how it was announced. Announced by the cabinet at a press conference: people are being received at the gate and led to a test street with complaints, so that we get fewer infections in the Netherlands. So if you say afterwards "no, that was just a test; people, that wasn't serious" then that undermines the credibility of the approach. This is problematic, because the credibility of the approach is essential if we are to succeed in getting the virus under control. If the government says "let's test you" and it can't be done, then that undermines that credibility. If the government says "come back from an orange area and we'll catch you at the gate," it'll undermine credibility if it doesn't. If the government then says "I don't see any connection between our test capacity and losing sight of the virus," then it also undermines credibility. My question is how much time the Prime Minister gives himself to have that test capacity in order, he has not answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u27	Something about the no-complaint testing. There too, there is a danger of a misunderstanding. I do not want to say here that the problem with testing capacity is due to people who have no complaints being tested. It is true that if people without complaints are not tested, it helps to reduce the issues surrounding this test capacity. In that sense, I made that point. It is certainly not the case that I say: it is because too many people are being tested. No, it contributes to the problem, but the problem is bigger. So it's good that we figure that out. That's certainly not my intention. I am glad that Mr Asscher has misunderstood... He thought he'd heard it like that. I'd like to clear that up this way. It is certainly not the fault of the people who are tested without complaints, but it may help to solve this problem if they are not tested without complaints. With regard to Schiphol and with regard to all places in the Netherlands, everyone with complaints must be tested. The problem is that sometimes it takes a few days, whether you get out of the plane or wherever you get the complaints, even at home or at school. In a number of places that doesn't happen immediately. This brings with it the risks that people will not stay home with these complaints at that time. I call on them to do so, but there's a risk they won't. That is why it is so important to get that test capacity back in order. I cannot state here a time or date that it is absolutely in order. We now have the capacity we expected: 30,000 a day in the summer. We're working towards 70,000 a day in December, but you just see that the need is greater right now. That is why we are now working with man and power to upgrade all this capacity. Again, this is happening in a global market, internationally, which is reasonably overstretched in terms of testing material. So that's not something you can lay down here with a result obligation, no matter how much I'd like it to be. We're working hard to get that done, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u28	First of all, we appreciate the way in which the cabinet is trying to combat this corona crisis. I understand very well how difficult that is. I would also like to say that I can imagine that there are ministers here today who have something to do other than listen to the Prime Minister's wise words. I can imagine that they are not attending the whole debate, but that is up to the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u30	Let's talk about the test capacity. I understand that colleagues are very much asking for this. I also understand that they are not satisfied with the answers given by the Prime Minister. It has everything to do with getting the test capacity in order is actually the only thing the cabinet can do centrally to keep our society safe. It allows us to function normally and contain the virus. If we are already above the capacity we expected, what does that mean for the scenarios for this autumn? In what way are they adapted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u31	All these scenarios are, of course, recalculated. If you see what we are currently buying in additional test capacity, also internationally, that gives us a lot of confidence. I can't tell you for sure when it's done. I don't want to give that guarantee. That's why I didn't want to answer Asscher's question. We're working on it with man and power. Of course, we also look at what is needed for the longer term based on the latest insights. I have also given a number of examples of this, including how we ourselves work on high volume laboratories in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u32	I'm asking that question because I don't really think it's enough to say that you're looking at those scenarios right now. If you cross it now, that will be much more the case in the autumn. We know that. I see in the budget that no funds have been allocated to this test capacity for 2021. It says zero. The budget says €0 for it. In fact, I find this incomprehensible for 2021, because we need to greatly increase that capacity towards 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u33	There's 1 billion euros for 2021. Right, Hugo? Yes, I hear there's 1 billion in the budget for 2021. By the way, we have said from the beginning of March that money does not matter when it comes to the medical side of corona. Never. On the economic side, there are limits somewhere, because Minister Hoekstra will say at some point: our sovereign debt. Fortunately, these limits have not yet been reached either. But especially for the medical side, there are no limits. The billion is booked for next year. I hear: for 2020 and for 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u34	I do not think we should talk too often about people without complaints who are being tested unnecessarily. Anyone who's had a corona test done once, I've done it once, too. I know it's no fun getting that cotton swab in the back of your throat first, and then it's really deep in your nose, to a point you're thinking: it really can't go any deeper. And then that Q-tip just goes a few millimeters further...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u35	This doesn't help getting more people tested. Thank you for this...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u36	No, but for a while. You're on the phone for hours at the G.D.D. You're in line at the test street. Then you have that unpleasant test. It's not a field trip. People are being tested because they are concerned about their own health or the health of others. Then I feel some discomfort with what we've seen in the last few days. Yesterday, in the debate, it seemed as if the cabinet had been informed by a member of the opposition, who had heard it from the media, that Belgium and Germany were turning part of the Netherlands on red. We read over and over in the newspapers that this test capacity is not yet in order. I heard the Prime Minister say a few times that Germany doesn't do that at the airports either. That's just not true. In Germany, every traveller coming from a risk area is tested. Not every traveler anymore, but every traveler from a risk area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u37	There's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u38	In the Netherlands, we are currently testing zero passengers at an airport. So we don't have that test capacity in order, and I'm just uncomfortable with that. My question to the Prime Minister is: what have we not done well enough in recent months, so that we do not have the laboratory capacity and the number of sources and contact staff in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u39	First of all about the international aspect and also about the information position of the Chamber. Internationally, we are working in the European Union to strengthen cooperation between countries on this issue, so that you also have more similar policies on how to identify areas at risk. Then there are also sudden announcements from countries... Each country now has its own moment when it announces this. So we do not always hear in advance that it is happening. Yesterday, Germany spooked a whole range of countries and areas of colour. We usually do that on Mondays. Again, that happens. It is not a disaster that we do not know before. I'm not blaming anyone for that either. With regard to the information position of the Chamber, I think the tradition has grown that, on the basis of the latest insights of the OMT, we could make decisions on this matter at a press conference because you are trying to reach as many people as possible, and that we then immediately send a letter to the Chamber, usually very quickly followed by a debate. There's gonna be another letter on Friday anyway. I assume we'll talk about that soon next week. It's Friday now. We've been looking into Wednesday nights this week. Then we could have, so to speak, partially deleted this debate and then, for example, this evening, we could have talked about corona. But that was not because we really wanted to take the time with the security regions to organise the regional scale very precisely and we came to the conclusion in close consultation with the RIVM that postponement is not good but acceptable in the interests of a shared decision, because it is not just national measures but also regional measures. With regard to the test capacity, and that goes for a lot of things, of course, it is important that in itself the expected capacity we need has been realized, which is 30,000 a day. What you see now is that demand is even greater and further up. That is why we are working very hard to bring forward what was planned for later this year, the 70,000 per day, perhaps not the 70,000 but at least the 30,000 increase towards the end of October. So that 70,000 would be December and we're trying to get it to the second half of October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u40	First of all, about the timing of the press conferences and informing the Chamber. To be honest, I am not as heavy on that as a number of speakers before me. I have also complimented the cabinet in previous Corona debates that it has been holding press conferences and has intensified information campaigns since the summer, because it is very important for the support base and to continue to include people in this Corona approach. So there's no criticism on that from me. I also understand that tomorrow you are going to try to take measures with a number of specific regions that are in line with those regions at that time. My discomfort is much more on the next one. I used the word "reciprocity" in my contribution yesterday. Yesterday, we talked extensively about the impact that corona has on our society and our economy. I myself am very convinced that getting that test policy in order is actually the best economic support package you can have as a cabinet, because that is preventing that second wave and preventing new restrictive measures against the economy. I used the word "reciprocity" because I am afraid that we will lose the support in society for those 1.5 meters and other measures if the government is not in order. I understand that the Prime Minister is not answering it now, because he did not answer Mr Asscher's question on this, but I would like to challenge him to become more explicit with Minister De Jonge over the next few weeks about when we have purchased the laboratory capacity and when we have trained enough people for source and contact research, because that is a commitment that the cabinet has been working on for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u41	Yes, we are working these days to clarify that further. It is now foreseen to bring forward to a significant extent what is expected in December, that 70,000, as I said earlier. Today and tomorrow there will be intensive discussions on the issue of testing and we hope to know more about it tomorrow evening; that is not yet complete, so I do not want to say anything about it now, because we really need to be more precise. If that works tomorrow night, it will be in the letter to the Chamber that we will send after the press conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u43	Yes, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about... And I'd like to do that separately because it was so intense...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u44	Sorry. I have a whole list: Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haga and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u45	The question was: how can we return to life as normal as possible in anticipation of the resolution of this crisis? And then there's gonna be a whole line of answers. All at your service, respect for the cabinet's commitment, but what is not mentioned is that the cabinet is now going to take care of protecting people's basic health. I'm just wondering, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u46	The cabinet, of course, sees it as one of its core tasks to keep the country healthy. The basic health, the whole Public Health Act is of course also focused on this but also everything we do with each other as a society to ensure a healthy Netherlands. In there, people decide for themselves what they do. Of course, you also try to ensure from the government that you do not give rise to collective health issues by activities that we collectively undertake. So that's always a balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u47	But that's just not true. So you undermine the public's confidence in politics, but also the confidence that the cabinet really believes that it is doing everything it can for health. One in three covid patients who were on the ICU suffered from obesity. RIVM warns that the number of obese people will only increase. So until now, the cabinet says to citizens "yes, but if you don't stick to the rules and thus endanger the health of others, you get a ticket," but the earning model of Coca-Cola and McDonald's and Albert Heijn is untouchable to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u48	Not that. We are also, of course, trying with all kinds of campaigns about behavior and healthy life, Paul Blokhuis, the Secretary of State, is working hard to ensure that people realize what choices have what effects. Most people know this very well, but in a free country it is still possible to eat your hamburger or drink your Coke. We're not banning that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u49	Let's talk about the possible extra measures. I fully understand, of course, that this is not anticipated and that there is a need for consultation. But I think it is also very good that instead of a more regional approach at national level, rather than more coarse and fine-meshed measures are chosen. My question concerns the fundamental rights test. You can see, in contrast to the emergency regulation and later in the preparation of that corona law, that there is a development in it, that we say: we must be careful when it comes to political meetings, demonstrations, church services and so on. My question is: can I assume that this more refined fundamental rights test will be respected even now, even if we remain in the emergency regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u50	As best you can. Yeah, as good as possible. Let me give you one example. Yesterday Kajsa Ollongren, Deputy Prime Minister, said to me: did you remember that we have good contacts with young people, Coalition-Y, and also the young people who have organized themselves at the ESC, who are going to join forces? Then I said, ai, that's true. Mrs Ollongren has expressed her willingness to use the next 36 hours to start discussions with young people in preparation for and to ask them for advice on what we can do for tomorrow evening. That did not go well last time. So that's how you keep each other sharp. I had also slowly ended up in a kind of case of "wow, the numbers are running up, we have to decide on Friday night," but I forgot this. That's how you keep each other sharp. You keep me sharp now, I say to Mr Van der Staaij. We shall therefore do our utmost to do so. The covid law, I thought, was going to be debated in plenary next week, if it still succeeds, it is really going to help to give it a more structural basis. But, of course, I understand the concern with regard to the freedom of demonstration, church services and so on. There have been good agreements with church societies made by Ferd Grapperhaus, the Minister of Justice, to deal with worship services as best as possible. Great respect also for churches and mosques for the way they implement that. The same applies, of course, to the right of demonstration. But at the same time, please don't sing in that church and if you do it, from the stage, but not from the community. And keep the 1.5 meter at demonstrations. So these things are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u51	I am not going to go into all that now; we have had other debates on this. I am more concerned with the general point I want to make here. There's a development in it, also in thinking about how to deal with the crisis. The emergency regulation was sometimes quite rude. In preparing the legislation, it has been said that we need to be more precise in the area of fundamental rights. My question is, and I assume, even though the law has not yet been dealt with, that this precision is also taken into account in the context of that emergency regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u52	Yeah, sure. That is also something Kajsa Ollongren and her people are keeping us sharp again. We're doing this as a team. In the way in which we organised it internally in that ministerial committee, it is also foreseen that all these aspects will be taken into account. And then yesterday something almost went wrong, when the contact we had so pleasantly a number of times with self-organized groups of young people who are insanely committed to bringing that aspect to the fore, not only the virus, but also economically, was threatened. We'll pick that up just in time. So this aspect too certainly has the attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u53	The Prime Minister was just talking about the PCR tests, which would be 99% reliable. He was probably talking about specificity in particular. But the PCR test actually only establishes that there are pieces of dirt that are virally present afterwards. Those pieces could be three months old. Does the Prime Minister therefore agree with me that this affects the determination of clinical contamination and that it is not always 99%, but that it can be much lower, because you also bring those older pieces?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u54	First of all, as I just said, it is important and helps if the laboratories can test for more than one piece of the virus. That helps. But the calculation of that 30% refers to a statistical calculation at population level, while what happens in the test streets is, of course, aimed at people with complaints. Therefore, the risk of having a virus is already considerably higher in advance. That's why we say, "Let's test you only in case of complaints." We are always calling for this. In that sense, the statistical calculation has, quite frankly, little value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u55	This is something else, isn't it? Of course, viral particles of that specific covid-RNA are tested, but they can also be older, so there could be a huge additional margin of error. But I don't think we're gonna get out, because there's obviously something else on the paper. My next question is about prevalence. In a situation where you have 1% prevalence and a margin of error, let's say, 2% and another situation where you have 100% prevalence and still have that margin of error of 2%, do you think it matters to the total margin of error in the final case you call "contamination"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u56	That is, of course, the point, also with the figure that Mr Van Haga put forward; 30% false positive results, he mentioned. Why don't we do something with that? His question was yesterday. That's what I just said. That is of course what happens when you do a statistical calculation on the entire population and not specifically look at what happens on the test street. As far as the rather theoretical example is concerned that everyone on a test street is infected, I am not statistical enough to give an answer to that now, and that seems rather theoretical to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u57	Well, of course it's not just that 30%. There are even studies in the United States that reach 90% and it is already called a PCR gate by several scientists. So it might well be that, if that margin of error is indeed much greater than you have calculated, the whole basis for these measures will be lost. Are you prepared to take a closer look at this because, of course, you can say: yes, but that is a statistical exercise of the margin of error in those PCR tests and if it is true that that margin of error is so much greater, then indeed to look at the basis for those measures and to take them away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u58	Just for a second, one of them knows how to test it. I have no reason to believe that what Mr Van Haga is saying here is true. And I also really think that there is a mistake in his questioning because he is presenting a different statistical calculation here. But let's just look at what's actually happening right now. We can see at this moment that the influx into the hospitals doubles in a short time. We can see by now that there were days when more than ten people were in intensive care. Those aren't people who fake that, are they? Those are people who really have it. So we're actually seeing the virus going up right now. And besides protecting the people who are vulnerable, we are of course also sending them to that hospital capacity. That's not a myth, is it? That's what's really happening. And that also reflects the increase, which is also just referred to, in the number of positive test results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u59	This is really hard. There's a margin of error in the specificity, in the fact that you're taking old pieces of debris. There's a margin of error in the prevalence. There is a margin of error because people are tested who have no symptoms at all and do not get any further research. The blow to the head is that the Prime Minister says that there are ten extra people on the ice. That's not statistically significant, no matter how bad it is for those people. That's so statistically irrelevant that you can't lock up an entire country for that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u60	No, we're not. Only, what I say to Mr Van Haga is that you can actually see that the number of positive tests in the test streets is actually increasing significantly. That has just been argued and rightly so, as the figures show. Two, that you also see it at the moment in the rather rising hospitalizations, that patients even have to be moved again, that also in intensive care the number is increasing. That is indeed a fact that we have to work with, because one of the points we are addressing is that hospital capacity. This is, of course, cause for concern. But, yes, I don't quite know where Mr Van Haga is going with this. Maybe he wants to argue with his statistical remarks that the virus is not a problem, but it was true!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u61	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u62	Yeah, finally. I would appreciate it if a statistician would be added to this team, because ten additional recordings are really irrelevant, and I really object that we are helping our entire country to destroy it on the basis of statistical nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u63	The RIVM has, working in the top of the column that deals with this, someone who is seen worldwide as perhaps the most authoritative or belonging to the most authoritative on this point, someone who has even developed the models that are used worldwide. I'm sure he'll be listening, too, and if he thinks there's a basis for truth in Mr Van Haga's remark... That's how we work. We've been saying, "We're gonna talk to everyone." It's hard with people who completely deny it, but Van Haga doesn't. He says, "I'm just genuinely concerned about that PCR test." That's how I understand him. I do not agree with him now, but of course we are looking at all the criticisms, so this criticism too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u64	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, and then Mr Pieter Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u65	I am sorry to go through with this, but I assume Mr Van Haga also knows that the number of infections this week is now over 8,200 and the number of reproductions is 1.38, while it has been hammered in for months how important it is to get that R, that number of reproductions, below 1. It is extremely important that people are tested for complaints. It is incredibly important for people who are being tested to be sure that their data is being handled properly. Now Nieuwsuur reported last night, unfortunately, that hundreds of employees of those test lines, 2,100 employees who work with the CoronIT IT system, can work with the appointments and the results even if this is not necessary, as well as with the medical personal data that have been filled in in order to be able to properly assess those tests. So they can look up the results of well-known Dutchmen, of their neighbor... How could it have been that employees who should not necessarily have access to them have access to them openly and to everyone? How is the Cabinet going to solve that there is a lot of privacy sensitive information on the street anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u66	Yesterday during the debate, of course between the various speakers, I saw such a message passing through my phone just as quickly, but I am not sufficiently prepared to do so. Perhaps that is wrong to have the answer ready now. I would therefore ask you to give me the answer to this question for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u67	Fine. Then the Prime Minister will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u68	Fine, thank you. Then I'll wait for that. I have one more question. We heard in the King's throne speech a very beautiful passage about national self-interest. He said that, unfortunately, it prevails in many countries, and that the Netherlands is trying to protect and help the most vulnerable regions in the world, which are also suffering from this crisis. Now Oxfam Novib International has today launched a study that shows that the richest countries, which house only 13% of the world's population, have already claimed more than half of the most promising vaccines available. Now there is today a meeting of the G20...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u69	But the question is? We just made a deal about this. The interruptions take too long because there are long introductions and summaries. They must be short and sharp. I'm going to watch that very closely today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u70	I'm gonna have to be brief, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u71	No, you may... Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u72	My question to the Prime Minister is: what will the Netherlands do to ensure that vaccines are distributed fairly throughout the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u73	Yeah, that's an important point. It is of course true that in a world with imbalance in terms of distribution of prosperity there is a risk that one's own fat self dominates and you first take care of yourself well. One of the things that this cabinet is working on, as well as the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, is to ensure that we are not only working on ensuring sufficient testing, no, sorry, vaccine capacity within the EU, but that we also include the question of what we can do, for example, for the continent of Africa, to ensure that there are sufficient testing. That is also in the European approach now. It's really important. That is civilisation: to ensure that we are not hugging again immediately while the contaminations continue elsewhere in the world due to lack of financial resources. We cannot eliminate all these differences, but we can ensure that they are as effective as possible. I think that is a very important point. I can really assure Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I'll see to it personally. I'm not a guy who says, "We're gonna take away all the differences." I just can't. There are big differences. But here, I think, you have to make sure that everyone has equal opportunities from a civil society perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u74	That's a good answer. I'm happy about that. Today, that meeting of the G20 and the Netherlands is not automatically represented. But does the Netherlands now have a say in this? Is this beautiful message about what the Netherlands wants to do for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u75	Knowing Mrs Kaag and the VWS Minister, we have a say in everything. Otherwise, this is certainly the case now that they have followed this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u76	The Prime Minister has just addressed both the acute corona crisis of today and the future. I have a question on both parts. Like Mr Van der Staaij, I agree that this regional approach is sensible, but it is also very difficult. Now you can see for several weeks that the corona numbers are increasing, especially in specific, large cities. I understand that the Prime Minister cannot go into what is to come tomorrow, but if you want to act in good time, then the question is why it is taking so long for action to be taken. Only by being regional in good time can we prevent it from becoming a national problem again. Then I'll get to the second part. The Prime Minister has responded to my plea for a national pharmaceutical. I have indicated that this must be done in conjunction with European countries. The Prime Minister states that we are currently working hard on this, both in terms of the vaccine and in terms of how we are going to make crucial medicines ourselves and in Europe. At what time can we expect further information on both points? The Prime Minister says it's being worked on, but it could take years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u77	The latter is, of course, linked to the European pharmaceutical strategy. I am not ready for a moment when it is foreseen that it is finished, so I will be briefed on that. But, of course, it takes place within the framework of this European pharmaceutical strategy. That is Mr Heerma's second question. This really needs to be done in a European context. We already did that pre-covid. The Netherlands was one of the main initiators of getting this security of supply of medicines and medicines firmly on the European agenda in order to become less dependent on a limited number of countries. With a medicine, and certainly a top-quality medicine, is of course the tricky thing that it often travels across different countries before it is finished and goes into a box. Those are really very complicated issues around production chains and buffers. On the first point: I am not blaming anyone, because the cities are struggling with it just as well as we are. That conversation is taking place really well. Last week it was intense and that led to a number of agreements on enforcement. Then you see that more needs to be done. Those cities and those security regions are also aware of this. In addition, you have to look very carefully at what does work and what doesn't. That is, of course, always the balance, because you want to take a measure that has maximum impact, but has minimal impact on the economy. Such a big, let's say intelligent lockdown is of course a big blow to the economy. You don't want to if you don't have to. The time for that search has just arrived. So we have just until tomorrow, but that really means that it has to be done today or tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u78	I understand the second part of the answer, but the first part doesn't make me happy. In his term, the Prime Minister indicated that he is working hard on it. Now I ask when we get it and he says: actually it already played for covid, but it's all very complicated. We already knew in 2017 how fast it can be when China factories close. I think it was about air quality in those factories. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister when we get more information about this. If I am not satisfied then I can put pressure on it, because it is really necessary that we as the Netherlands do it with the countries around us. I don't even know if it should go all over Europe. You can also do it with a number of Western European countries. I just want that production of crucial drugs back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u79	I get that, too. Here's what I'm gonna do. I will not wait until the second deadline, but I will give you that answer earlier. There's also a lunch break where I can still get it. I'll check it out. But that doesn't change my previous answer that I really share that urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u80	A lot of questions have already been asked about testing, including the vaccine. The Prime Minister said the vaccine will not be mandatory. Can the Prime Minister also say that companies, organisations or other places in society cannot impose this as a requirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u81	The Public Health Act, as well as the legislative proposal now before the Chamber, on COVID-19, does not provide for vaccination. Nevertheless, the vaccination rate is of great importance. But if there is no vaccination obligation, then I assume that it is also not legally possible to force people into vaccination. It just can't be. So companies cannot impose this as a condition. People can also understand themselves legally on this basis. However, just for the clarity, also for the people who are watching: it is really very important that, if that vaccine is there, as many people as possible use it. That is really crucial, because otherwise it will not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u82	I agree; I think this is very sensible. But there are people who are worried about that and who do not have the freedom not to be vaccinated. The Prime Minister was clear: this is not mandatory from the government. Of course there will be a whole vaccination strategy; we are thinking about which groups when...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u83	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u84	But there are people who don't want to. My question was actually very specific, but I got a somewhat unclear answer to that. Of course, there can be companies or organisations that say: we impose that; we ask that of our employees...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u85	But you can't. I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u86	That's not possible. Then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u87	Thank you. I see Mr Jetten. If it's all right, there will be a press conference on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u88	Yeah, we'll have a press conference tomorrow night and then a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u89	Then there will be a letter to the Chamber and we will be able to come back to this problem in detail. Mr. Jetten, can I close this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u90	Mr President, first of all, on a point of order. We have agreed on a maximum number of interruptions, so I think we will deal with them ourselves when we use them. I am doing this for the second time on this subject, precisely because of the impact of the coronavirus on the state of the country. So that's why I'm interrupting a second time now. I listened to the Prime Minister's reply. I just used the word "uncomfortable," but frankly that inconvenience hasn't gotten any less. I have too much feeling that I am listening to a reflection on the corona situation in the country, rather than to the Prime Minister who is in charge of the cabinet responsible for dealing with the corona crisis. We are uncomfortable because the number of infections is increasing and people are worried about their health, but also because a lot of people are worried about their impact on the economy. As I said, the best economic aid package is to prevent that second wave. We now know that most infections occur in the private sphere, in the family sphere. But I am now also hearing signals that we are going back to restrictions on catering, restrictions on students and young people, perhaps even restrictions on education. All places where the infections actually do not occur at all, because they occur in the private sphere. The only way to inhibit contamination in the private sphere is to make sure that the test capacity gets right. This brings me to the question that I have just asked, but which I did not actually receive an answer to: what have we left behind in recent months, which means that we do not now have the laboratory capacity and the capacity for the source and contact research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u91	I do not entirely agree with Mr Jetten's analysis in the first half of the interruption. If only you could only solve this by keeping the test capacity in order. It is very important, but the infections are not only in the private sphere. You'll see that when the OMT recommendation comes out. Unfortunately, the number of infections is also increasing in the hospitality sector. And not only does the number of infections occur in student homes, but also in places where students meet, unfortunately also among the group over thirty and even over sixty and seventy. This means that you cannot say that by testing more you can prevent anything further and that you can therefore rule out that you have to do something towards group size or catering. We are currently looking at all options. We really do not yet know exactly what to do. We are working on this today. All variants are on the table. But if Mr Jetten thinks that we can prevent such measures only by testing more, then I have to tell him that unfortunately this is not the case. At some point, you determine where those clusters are. If these clusters occur very often, including in the catering industry, then that is something you need to look at, of course in a way that will cause minimal damage to that beautiful sector. I understand that, of course. I answered the other question, too. We have made an assessment, a very large dimension, of what we thought was needed, that 30,000. In practice, however, we see that it is even higher. That means you have to bring up what you had planned for December. Those 70,000 were planned for December, which we are now trying to achieve in the second half of October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u92	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u93	I have told you all this, plus: I said that we are trying to go into this in a letter to the House of Representatives tomorrow evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u94	No repeats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u95	Then I hope to go into this matter in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u96	Then I shall come back to the issue of reciprocity. Because testing alone doesn't solve it. It is also a question of ensuring that people comply with the agreements we have made with each other to prevent the spread of the virus. But it's just getting harder and harder to ask all Dutch people to comply with these measures, because they see that the government still doesn't have the place in order. With all due respect, of course, we have been receiving these answers for four months in all the corona debates we have had with each other. I will read the letter that comes tomorrow carefully, and I will discuss it in more detail with the cabinet next week. But the fact is, of course, that other countries seem to have purchased that laboratory capacity earlier and that other countries, similar to the Netherlands, manage to take more tests per capita. So I would really like to challenge the Prime Minister to come out of this contemplative role, which we are seeing here in this debate, even in the weeks to come. Show more, and also acknowledge, where things are not going well, why things have not gone well and what you are doing in the near future to get things in order, before there is a second wave this autumn that will damage our economy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u97	I am glad that Mr Jetten gives me the feedback that my answer would be too contemplative. That is certainly not the intention; as a cabinet, we are working very hard to solve this problem. And I think it is my job here in this debate to do something about it, and to tell you about what we are doing, both about the facts and about how we are trying to solve it. I certainly do not run away from the fact that there are issues in the Netherlands. I'm just saying, to solve it, you depend on the international situation. Unfortunately, you can now see that a lot of countries are failing to do so, not as an excuse, but as an explanatory part of what to do, for example, with test materials. That is not a unique Dutch issue. This is happening in many European countries at the moment. As a result, you cannot reach the maximum capacity you would like and delay in doing so. So at that point there is an international issue, which we are working hard on, and you see that demand is much higher than we think. So let Mr Jetten not think that there is a contemplative cabinet here. We are at the ball, only it seems to me, in the General Reviews, also wise that I give the consideration of where we stand. That's why it's the General Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u98	I suggest you move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u99	I had one more point. I wanted to put that aside, because Mrs Van Brenn asked for it. It was so intense, I thought: I don't take that into account in the other reactions. It was actually two questions. Do the elderly still get help in the hospital when they're sick? The answer is yes. Anyone who needs help will be helped at the hospital. Age should never play a role in this. She then asked: can we count on the government to ensure that older people are not socially excluded as a result of the corona crisis? Answer: yes. We're not gonna do that. One of the objectives is to protect the vulnerable, the elderly. We can only solve this as one society, together. The suggestion I sometimes hear, that our country with two currents can be a solution to the coronavirus, or the economic crisis, I really reject. You can't say: if one group withdraws for a moment, then the other group can live on. It's sometimes said here and there. What kind of country do you get? We can all get sick, by the way, but we all want to participate, young and old. The same applies to vulnerable people, people with disabilities, people with lung disease and other people with vulnerable health. If you were to have a division in the Netherlands between people who are vulnerable and those who are less vulnerable, that would result in a society I would not want to confess to. This is very important, because this debate also plays a social role. That is allowed; it is allowed to be discussed everywhere. But I really take a stand in that debate; this cabinet takes a stand there. Hugo de Jonge has spoken about this before. It is really a crucial point, that we absolutely do not want such a society, and that we ask young people, who themselves know they have been unwise, not to do so anymore. And if you know that, make sure you don't sit on your lap with Grandpa or Grandma right now. That doesn't happen literally when you're a little older, but at least don't get too close. That's wise. It's just sensible dealing with each other in a situation. But a split in society, that's what I'm turning against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u100	I appreciate this. You saw it yesterday: it really hits me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u101	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u102	There's a lot of reactions coming in. What the Prime Minister says about the code black is something that's in people's minds. The debate here in the Chamber may have been a little too flattened for that. I know there have been four meetings at KBO-Brabant with a doctor and a geriatric. People could walk in there and ask questions. They went away relievedly. Actually, I'd like to give it to everyone. I have the following question to the Prime Minister: can we make the debate on how the code looks more accessible in reality by showing it on national television and making it available on the radio? Older people can ask questions and present fears to doctors. This creates a well nuanced picture of what happens with a code black.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u103	Yeah, I think this is good. It's just it's not up to me to decide what the broadcasters are broadcasting. By the way, I think these debates are already taking place in television talk shows. This touches on the concerns created by the so-called Triage Roadmap. This applies to the worst scenario in which the ic capacity would fall short. It has been drafted by Doctors Federation KNMG and the Federation of Medical Specialists. But this is still open for consultation. In the script, the criterion "age cohorts in triage" is part of the discussion. After all the decisions you have made and after all the triage has taken place, you have a kind of last triage on age cohorts. Martin van Rijn and the other members of the cabinet who are working on this subject have spoken about it earlier by pointing out that we have great concerns about it. But it is not yet ready, because it is still open for consultation. With regard to the question of how this should go further in society, I would almost say that the NOS, RTL and other broadcasters are now listening. Perhaps it is a good idea to talk about this more closely, especially if, as Mrs Van Brenk says, this leads to great concern for people. I can imagine this very well, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u104	It's good to hear this. We do see that this is on television, but very often it is a story or a statement about what is going on. But it is never a conversation with the older self, in which they can be told exactly what they are concerned with and what answer will be given later. This Prime Minister has very good connections in the country of broadcasting. I would urge him to make an extra effort there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u105	I think Mrs Van Brenk has even more access to one specific channel. Let's see what we can do. From a cabinet responsibility, unfortunately, no, fortunately, I can't order that... No! Whoa, whoa! Oh, thank God! I rushed there to correct myself. I can see that this debate is taking place. I would also like to say one more thing, otherwise I will be failing the medical specialists, the KNMG and others who are working on it. They are doing this very conscientiously. They will say, "This is indeed a medical decision. As a politician, you shouldn't really interfere with that." That also complicates the discussion. At the same time, we have said on occasion: 'Guys, such an age cohort, beware of that'. That debate is therefore not yet ready either. I want to tell the medical specialists that I also understand what they're struggling with. I'm not a doctor, but I can imagine you saying at the end of a triage, what is a last criterion? But to do that at an age, I personally find it very complicated. That is more a personal remark than that I would like to make to the doctors who are trying conscientiously to formulate an answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u106	I do have discussions too. I know this is going on very well, very closely and well-balanced. I have another point. I think the Prime Minister knows better than anyone what it feels like if you can't get to your loved one in a nursing home and swing from the outside. He's been through it himself, and he's been through it with a lot of people. I made a plea. I hope that I can get a commitment from the cabinet that this should never happen again and that there will be a real visit; even if it is just one person. Can the Cabinet promise that we will never leave people alone again and that we will have access to a nursing home, even if it's exciting there? Could the cabinet agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u107	I can't say it that hard, but I do think we might be able to agree on how to do it. There is an amendment by Mrs Van Brenk to the COOVID-19 Act, the Temporary Law measures COOVID-19, which I thought was cut next week or at least this month in the Chamber. I agree with her that it is extremely important for the residents, but also for the family members and for friends that you can keep in touch with each other. This may mean, in the case of a pandemic, that it can take place temporarily very limited or even in extreme circumstances. We have also said as a cabinet that you would never want to repeat the whole rough measure of March in that form again, so you say to all nursing homes "you must close." That was necessary at the time. We had cases of contagion in 1,000 of 2,500 nursing homes, and that threatened to catch up. At that time, we had no other means than to give such a blow, fortunately, not literally to do such an intervention. You don't want to do that again. I would suggest that the amendment be dealt with and that we continue to prepare ourselves for it. I can't give the warranty here "never." I can only say: at this moment in extreme need, I hope only for individual or for a limited group of people, but no longer for all nursing homes. We really don't want that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u108	The Temporary Law measures COVID-19 will be added to the agenda of the Chamber and will thus be one of the weeks to come. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u109	A great deal of questions have been asked about the three subjects that I tried to break up in the preparation, but which have been put together: the labour market, the issue of aid packages and the wider issues surrounding the budget. This means that I go through the various questions and let various subjects be reviewed. I try to cluster them as best I can, but that is not entirely thematic because many different questions have been asked. I'll be right with Jesse Klaver from GroenLinks. He asked about the solidarity with young people and the uncertainty they experience, and what support package is there for them. In the first instance, of course, they also have to do with the reintegration policy of municipalities and the UWV. Especially now they are covered by the aid and recovery packages. That is, of course, the main point; that is true for all generations. A temporary arrangement has been established for a number of flex workers for whom the regular safety net did not provide a solution, the TOFA. Anyway, it's already been known. It is well known that, in addition to the aid and recovery package, we are allocating 1.4 billion for an additional social package to support people. I shall come later to Mr Asscher's question in the context of the job guarantee as I thought he described it, or the job guarantee. I will come back to that in a moment, but in this context I would like to mention it once at the point of 1.4 billion. We are also focusing specifically on preventing long-term unemployment among young people. Under the 1.4 billion, 350 million are earmarked for guidance to further education and work. This also means that young people can stay longer in school and thereby increase their job opportunities. There is intensive guidance for early school leavers who are not adequately trained, without initial qualification. The advice of Femke Halsema, mayor of Amsterdam, who led a working group, is there. Half of May is offered. It also called for specific attention to be paid to the position of vulnerable young people during the corona crisis. On 8 July, Wouter Koolmees and I met with Coalition-Y and other youth organisations. There has also been a follow-up discussion with the Minister for Social Affairs. We are specifically trying to find a form of fusion between these two initiatives, with the SER Youth Platform and Coalition-Y, in order to be advised, both specifically on the epidemiological side and on the wider economic impact. This has also helped to ensure that the fight against youth unemployment has been given an even stronger place than foreseen in the aid and recovery package. That in response to that. Then there was the question about the 4 million for the food banks. I took a look at that. It did not come from the European funds, the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived, because we really want to focus on social inclusion of the most deprived and not on food aid or material support. But there is 4 million. There is, so that's right. Mr Heerma's question was: what if it is needed longer? Then we're just gonna do it. That subsidy now runs until the end of May 2021, but if necessary, we will extend it. The safety net has not yet been used. It is a safety net on the emergency fund of the food banks in the Netherlands. So short and well: that 4 million is there until the end of May 2021 and if necessary we extend the scheme. Except he's independent of that fund because we're using it for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u110	I see that Mr Klaver has no problem with it if Mr Heerma is allowed to interrupt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u111	Thanks for that. This was indeed not the answer to the question I asked. The second part is. I have to say that I think it's a separate matter that we're spending billions to keep the economy going and food banks get 4 million if we're really out of reserves. I would ask the Cabinet to see if that is reasonable. On the second part: I have never said that it should come from the European Fund. I have just said that I find it very strange that, if there are European resources to support people who are hungry and who are using all of Europe to support food banks, we, the Netherlands, have used the money in recent years for a social inclusion project that I believe only helps a third of the target number of people, it was something of 2,000 people, while with that same money you can help 10,000 to 20 000 people at the food bank. My question was precisely whether, in future, the cabinet, like all other European countries, will not be able to make better use of this money in food banks, because it will also help social inclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u112	Yeah, that'd be fine. We have now chosen to say: that is something you should not regulate at European level, you should do it from the Dutch budget. So that 4 million is there, but from another pot, namely the budget spot. But briefly and well: if Mr Heerma asks for that 4 million more in structural terms, I say: let us send a letter on that. Now the 4 million is meant as a kind of back-up of the calamity fund, which is currently sufficiently filled. There are many gifts from people and companies and the claim to the fund is lower than foreseen. But if I understand Mr Heerma correctly, he asks whether the 4 million can be used for the food banks. Well, let's study on that. I am certainly in favour of that. In addition, he says: you have this European fund, why don't you put that in? We thought, and I don't think that's a crazy idea, that this is some kind of national responsibility. We use it for what we think it was meant to be. But that's not chiseled in stone, either. If Mr Heerma asks if that money can be more focused on this, then we will take that into account in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u113	Thank you for the first commitment. I appreciate the space that is being offered, but I do want to see it in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u114	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u115	About the second, I'm a little sharper. It has long been the case that the programme is also aimed at combating hunger. I believe that is what 24 European countries are doing. France has already raised half a billion, and Belgium 80 million. We do not do that because we opt for social inclusion programmes, which in practice prove that I believe 2,000 people have used them, while it was aimed at more than 5,000. While people are hungry and the food banks can use that support very well. This is gonna play from next year. Europe is also asking for the fund to be focused on this. I also expect the Netherlands to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u116	Here's what I'm gonna say. There will be one letter with two elements. One: that 4 million for the calamities fund will be used more widely for the food banks. Two: precisely why we are completing this European programme in our own way. Then I won't admit that we're doing what Heerma wants, but I listened to him very carefully. So when we draw up that letter, we will see if we can take his direction. He wants to know when that letter is coming. Well, hurry up. For the Social Affairs budget? For the Social Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u117	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u118	Then there was also...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u119	I see Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Segers. Maybe the Prime Minister can go ahead with the answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u120	I'm going through it fast. The Christian Union asked whether there would be a guarantee fund to pay off debts. Answer: yes. We are going to create such a guarantee fund to speed up the settlement of problematic debts. In doing so, we want to support people with problematic debts, for example, by making it possible to make remedial appropriations more accessible. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs will work closely with SchuldHelpMaatje, the Dutch Association for Debt Relief, Social Banks Nederland et cetera. Then there was the question of whether I would like to extend the deferment of the tax payment until 1 July 2021 and double the repayment period. With regard to the postponement, I think it is important that we keep that date on 1 January 2021. The total number of requests for postponement is very small. Many entrepreneurs have already started paying off themselves. You're also trying to keep tax payments from getting worse. It's dangerous if they go too far. It doesn't seem necessary now either. As far as the agricultural policy is concerned, we have a period of 24 months. It's twice as long as normal, 12 months. That makes it a solid arrangement. Of course, we always look at it again if it turns out that many entrepreneurs are unable to meet it. Then we are certainly open to reconsidering that. But at the moment we do not suspect a problem in that respect. There was a question about extra money for regional economic development. We are in good contact with the regions, including the consequences of the corona crisis. Last week, Secretary of State Mona Keijzer of Economic Affairs and Climate received the recovery plan from the Interprovincial Consultation. The possibilities offered by European funds are now being examined. In that plan, the IPO says that it wants to work together with the Empire and other partners to restore the economy. In the context of the aid and recovery package, the cabinet is working with the provinces and, in particular, with the provinces, and in particular with the latter, I think I come to the question of strengthening the fund assets of the ROMs, the so-called regional development companies. These are important for financing innovative enterprises in the region, including stimulating start-ups and scale-ups. Mr. Chairman. I come to public finances and the wider economy. The first question was about the growth fund. Mr Klaver asked why this is aimed at old-fashioned economic growth and not at climate. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say the following. Look at the objectives of the fund: knowledge, infrastructure and the wider development of our economy. It is clear that it is a mistake for me not to mention the word 'climate', because almost all climate investment and innovative investments in this area lead to additional economic growth. So it will also be a green fund. Sustainable technology or energy infrastructure projects are clearly eligible for this. In fact, I think they have a big chance. Mr Van der Staaij asked when we would return to the old financial normal. As far as we're concerned, as soon as possible. Luckily, we have a buffer. It's being addressed now. It will have to be rebuilt in the long term, so that the budget can also cope with another blow. A number of times it has been asked: is it not true that in the past, during the previous crisis, there has been cuts and not now? The big difference is that the previous crisis was really a crisis of the economy itself. At that stage, it is crucial that we get public finances back in order quickly. I believe that this has led to the enormous growth spurt that followed it. That has released a great deal of energy, no matter how difficult these measures were. Think of the reforms, the tax increases where they were needed, fortunately, this is partly reversed, and there is even net tax relief in relation to the citizens' crisis, but also, of course, austerity. Now it's different. Now, because of the coronavirus, many people simply don't get into the normal expenses. But the underlying strength of the economy is not affected. It could be affected by rising unemployment. We must, of course, try to avoid that. With that, I think you will also see it in the economists' debate in the Netherlands, which now requires a different policy than at the time. That's not because it was wrong then, because at that time it was the good medicine. I would be in favour of using that again in the event of a serious economic crisis. But now we are dealing with the economic consequences of a pandemic. But I very much agree with Mr van der Staaij that we need sound public finances. He knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u121	It's moving too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u122	I've got a lot of other questions to ask, but we're gonna do them later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u123	Yeah, 'cause it's moving too fast. I think a number of Members of Parliament have questions on the previous point. Just to be sure, we have Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Segers, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Azarkan, Mr Baudet, Mr Wilders and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u124	The Prime Minister said that there are a lot of issues in this block that are important to my party. I would now like to start with the growth fund, because that is what the Prime Minister pointed out. I am not concerned about whether the word 'climate' is mentioned and that we can then fill in the bingo card. I am concerned about how the fund was designed. If I read it very carefully, then the only measure that is being looked at, the only one that is hard-lined in Annex C, is the question of what the contribution is to economic growth, to GDP. This is determined by the Central Planning Bureau. That's just not enough. Actually, I think that should be adjusted. It should not be just about economic growth. It should be broader, for example the CO impact and the contribution it makes to the transitions. To be honest, I do not think that a fund that has mentioned economic growth as its sole objective is of added value. That's wasted money, and we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u125	Oh, well, I'm afraid we're still thinking differently about that. I thought the difference of opinion was smaller at this point. Let's try to close that hole again. Economic growth is extremely important in an en- en- en policy. We need to work hard and hard, and that is what we are doing to shape the energy transition and combat climate change. There is also a need for all kinds of investments that do not lead to economic growth, but which are necessary to achieve the CO reduction and energy transition. That is one very large chapter that we are working on, with the support of GroenLinks and others in the Chamber. This is crucial on the way to 49% of the population, but it could also be 55% CO reduction by 2030. That's the piece. But in an en- en-en approach, we also need to work on the question: what is possible to ensure that this country will continue to... That is really necessary. As far as I am concerned, we are facing three major issues over the next five to ten years: the question of our security, the question of what kind of society we are, but first and foremost the question of our jobs, our economic engine, both now and in the future. It is necessary to realise that many of these jobs of the future are not yet available. What is the overlap between this growth in the future and the issue of energy transition and climate change? Of course, this overlap comes with this fund. If you look worldwide, especially throughout the Western world, at successful investments that lead to exceptional growth, then in many cases they are green investments, precisely investments in the energy transition and climate change. So my belief is that they will also be dominant. But it is not the case that any climate investment leads to economic growth. However, it still has to be done, and we are doing so in the context of the climate approach. In addition to combating CO and warming and shaping the energy transition, I would really like to continue working on future growth potential. Why is that necessary? Precisely in order to keep the money in the future to be able to talk to each other about higher healthcare salaries, about more Defence expenditure, about relief or where parties put their accents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u126	Unfortunately, here we are opposite each other. What I hear here is really old-fashioned politics. This is really political, and a view of the economy, of the past. I am not saying that economic growth should not be a part of it or that it would not be nice if we had that in the years to come. In fact, I think investing in climate is helping to improve our economy. But if you really believe that, then you should also have the courage not only to write in such a fund that the only goal is to increase GDP. In addition, on an equal footing, you put the importance of reducing CO emissions, the question of what contribution this makes to the other transitions we are going through in this country and the question of how this strengthens our society. If you are confident that investments in sustainability are also good for the economy, you write that down. Now it's not there and what's the result? Too little focus, because everything contributes to economic growth. More accidents, more smoking and a coal power station also contribute to economic growth. If we are going to spend 20 billion, in which a committee is going to play an important role, then I want us to reduce it, limit it and set priorities, because that is what we are talking about here. You want to have growth in it, and I can imagine that, but if that's the only thing that's hard defined in this fund, then that's not enough. This includes reducing CO emissions. Because otherwise it's an old-fashioned fund, and you'll find us right in front of you. We're not going to spend 20 billion on the old economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u127	I think we agree that this will not happen, because we have a climate plan. That climate plan is working towards 49%, possibly 55%, by 2030. Our goal is to be net climate neutral by 2050. So you need growth, if only to continue to finance those climate plans in the future. There is a lot of evidence in the documents that the social costs and benefits must be positive. It would be weird if we were to invest in a large petrochemical plant with huge emissions, when we know that our energy and climate objectives mean that we have to compensate for this with all kinds of additional measures. Then the social cost-benefit analysis is not positive. But if you would say ahead of time, and I think the discussion is about that, if you are for or against economic growth, then Klaver does not say: I am against economic growth. That's how I hear it. He wants, I think, from his conviction to prevent what he calls economics. I thought that's the professional term in GroenLinks circle. I think we might not find each other ideologically in that, but we practically do. If this fund were to lead to more pollution and more emissions, it would also lead to even more costs, precisely because we have agreed on an energy transition and a climate approach. Then why would you do that? That doesn't make any sense, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u128	Indeed, that makes no sense if you have a fund of EUR 20 billion and that would lead to behavior that we do not want. But then I take it as my starting point, and that is our job, and that is that we have to commit it to such a fund. It is a growth fund and the key test is whether it contributes to economic growth. We cannot even determine in advance whether it is contributing to economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u129	Plus that cost-benefit analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u130	You can't even establish it. If, at this time, 2020, you create a fund that is not one of the conditions for the projects to contribute to reducing CO emissions, then you really live in the last century. Instead of standing up to each other and pretending that it should be just about that economic growth, and you're actually saying that it shouldn't be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u131	No, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u132	Then I would say: include it in the entire governance of this fund. Economic growth, at your service; but what the fund absolutely needs to do for every project that comes out is to reduce CO emissions. Because that's the biggest task we're dealing with right now. Corona is a crisis of unprecedented magnitude, with a huge impact on all the people who live here, but the climate crisis may still be a factor 100 as large as we do not address it. We are the climate generation, the last to stop climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u134	And if you're spending 20 billion on the future of the economy, one must be on numero to reduce CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u135	I agree with all that, but what Mr Klaver says is that all investments from that fund go to climate and energy transition. I disagree. So I agree... I'll peel it off. I agree with Mr Klaver that it is not conceivable, from the point of view of the objective it contains, namely that the sum of social costs and benefits is positive, that this fund should invest, for example, in a coal power plant. So we are not going to do that, because then, because of the climate agreement, you have to make all kinds of costs again in order to compensate for the damage caused by that coal plant. Secondly, my conviction is that the most innovative technologies and investments are always directly or indirectly related to climate change and the energy transition. This is happening in all Western European and American economies at the moment, with or without the support of leadership. But if you do what he says, and there we are threatening to touch a slightly more difficult point, namely that by definition it can only be about green investments, then I say: what does that mean? What if there's going to be a project... I don't know; I haven't seen any projects yet. So I'm looking back at a discussion we've had before with the Chamber about whether you want to be a top player in the world in the field of translational medicine research. I'm just gonna mention one topic. That is a discussion that took place ten years ago and may not be relevant anymore, but it was very relevant at the time and was partly realised. What if you want to be a top player in that? Then maybe that's an investment that we all say "yes, that's great for the Netherlands," but translational medicine research doesn't make a direct contribution to combating global warming. However, that is important. It also leads to future economic growth, and it also leads to the money you need to look at healthcare salaries, defence expenditure, but also to finance our climate plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u136	My problem... I can imagine this. I think it fits in, even if you take CO as an important measure. But the point is that the fund is now so wide-ranging. Can the Prime Minister rule out the fact that investment from this fund for, let me say, airport Lelystad is being paid? Can the Prime Minister rule out the construction of new roads? Can the Prime Minister rule out the funding of new nuclear power plants under this fund? I heard that wish from the VVD. My point is that this fund is now so wide-ranging that it lacks focus. The Prime Minister can laugh, but we don't give EUR 20 billion every year. We don't do that every year. If you do, it has to be focused on the big challenges we have. Medical research and make sure that we are independent fit in with that. At least they do not contribute to higher CO emissions. What is missing now is the climate impact that exists with these plans. If you are only committed to economic growth and do not dare to add to it a CO reduction, it is really a fund from the past. Then the Prime Minister will really run into us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u137	But he started saying that it should contribute to CO reduction. I am glad that at least we find that we do not necessarily have to. But you have to prevent investment from leading to more CO emissions. That is not 100% to be scorched in every respect. That debate must take place more closely when this budget is dealt with, I think. Then we'll prepare for it. But what is already in it, I repeat it for the sake of certainty, because that is what I think is essential: that the sum of social costs and benefits should ultimately be positive. That's gonna help us do that, I think. So let's meet... I listened very carefully to Mr Klaver. I'd like him to be able to carry this too. I was just concerned that it should only be green investments, but I can't hear him say that. He says it shouldn't lead to damage. That is now in general terms in the terms and conditions. Let us agree that this will be looked at further in a debate on this fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u138	I have a whole list of speakers, but I think Mr Dijkhoff wants to respond to Mr Klaver. I'll see if I can. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u139	I'd like to spend an interruption on that. There's no need for an answer, so that saves a little time. For the people at home, a very strange picture can now emerge. The terms of the fund state that it cannot conflict with all other objectives. So you can't afford old polluting things with it at all. But it became very furious when Mr Klaver first demanded that it should contribute as much as possible to CO reduction, but then said that it should not be spent on nuclear power plants, which mainly reduce CO. Then I really have lost Mr Klaver completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u140	Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u141	Different name, same idea: the investment discount for companies is actually the dividend tax 3.0. What do we see? It is still completely unclear what investments should be involved. It is completely unclear what these investments should yield. There are a lot of questions about whether it can be done properly. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how big can it be if we sell this investment discount, the dividend tax 3.0, against the cabinet's story about salaries for our caregivers? Then it is said: "Well, if we reserve money for that, it is not clear to us where exactly that ends up. You know what? We set up a committee and that committee will study what is needed until after the elections, more than six months." But we know very well what it takes. We don't know anything about this investment discount, we don't know what it's gonna cost, we don't know what it's gonna cost. All we know is 2 billion and the VVD wants it, so it's gonna happen. In the healthcare pay, we know exactly what is needed, namely a fair reward for all those people we have to deal with. The cabinet says: there will be a committee, because we still have to study it. How big can the contrast be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u142	I'll come back later on the care pay. By the way, there is 1 billion ready for higher healthcare salaries, regardless of the bonuses we have provided. Within the framework of the system, 1 billion are ready for higher salaries in health care. But I'm going to the point she's talking about right now. I would have done that separately, but I'd like to take that Job-oriented Investment Discount forward now. A few things about that. I have to give a more detailed answer to that, but then I may have been able to answer a lot of other questions about that right away. First of all, yesterday there was the point: how come this hasn't worked out yet? Isn't that okay with me asking for that? You see more often things that need to be worked out. For example, the supplementary item is sometimes used for this purpose. This is the case in this budget, for example, with regard to the availability fee for the public transport sector. It applies to the additional contribution to the cultural sector. It applies to part of the accompanying policy. This also adds up to more than 2 billion. So it's not unusual that not everything is completely finished. Those dots are gonna be put on the i. The House will receive the detailed proposal on 5 October. But I would like to say a few things about the proposal in general. Companies in the Netherlands invest around €100 billion per year in operating funds. As a result, businesses account for around 80% to 85% of all investments in the Netherlands. The public authorities are now bringing forward investments in housing and infrastructure, which is part of the budget, but that is, of course, a drop in the ocean when you see that 80% to 85% of investment comes from business. This involves machines, ICT, research, business premises and so on. These are needed to increase production capacity. That leads to more jobs. This leads to the introduction of new markets. This leads to more jobs and more economic growth. Now, of course, there is a huge risk that, because of the economic crisis that we have now, investments will fall. The CPB is currently estimates that this is a serious figure that I would really like to draw attention to. In 2020, companies' investments will fall by 9%. And in 2021 they are still about 10 billion below the level expected for corona. This has a huge impact on our economy and therefore on the generating capacity for jobs for people in the Netherlands. It is about billions less investment in the growth power of the Netherlands. We also saw this during the financial crisis: a sharp decline in business investment. That's what we're trying to prevent. That is why it is so important that private investment is maintained as much as possible so that jobs are preserved and the economic crisis is as temporary as possible. This measure contributes to this. This is a percentage of the amount invested, which is deducted from the wage charge to be paid. So you're preventing it from going to companies where no one works. That's why the 2 billion is available. This is not for large companies, which is for all companies in the Netherlands. So all companies can make use of that. So companies can only collect that discount if they employ people. So that's very important. Finally, let me give you an example. Suppose you have a company that plans to set up a production line in the Netherlands. Then it is quite possible that such a company now says: you know, with that crisis I'm not quite sure, I'm postponing that investment in that production line. I know from my experience at a company we had previous discussions about here, that there are a lot of people working on those production lines. That's a lot of jobs. I'm not saying it's happening, but at least you're hoping to encourage a company like this to do it. That's why it's temporary. In 2023, it will be redesigned. He's really tuned now, pinned on this crisis time so you can encourage those companies to make that investment anyway. Finally, the picture that the companies are doing so well. It doesn't cheer me up from my party, but I'll just mention the numbers. For citizens, this cabinet, combined with all the measures taken by previous Cabinets, leads to a reduction in the burden on citizens, that is to say, for us here, of 4.8 billion. With this measure, so with this BIK, companies are going down 5.1 billion. So if you didn't do this, 5.1 billion would be 7.1 billion. So it's not like companies all get more reliefs than citizens. No, citizens are getting better at 5 billion on balance. Businesses in this entire cabinet period are, on balance, declining by 5 billion. That includes this measure. This measure is therefore intended for this type of investment which leads to jobs, investments which will otherwise fall by more than 9%, which means huge amounts. That has an effect on employment and that is why you want such a measure temporarily in a crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u143	It is indeed quite a comprehensive answer, but I do not think that I have ever heard anyone in his reply mention the word "jobs" as Prime Minister Rutte in his reply. Apparently that is the idea this cabinet has with the label that they want to put on this tax discount for companies and that should be the picture. My question was actually much simpler. Where's the evidence? What would you be able to convince us of? Because as far as this story is concerned, therefore, I was just talking about dividend tax 3.0.... we have of course heard exactly the same thing when abolishing dividend tax and reducing the tax on profits. That was the same reasoning. It would be good for the investment climate, it would be good for the companies and it would be good for the jobs. Where the hell is the evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u144	What you can never say about a tax measure is exactly how many jobs it creates. That question was also asked yesterday in the debate; you can never give a sensible answer to it. But one thing you do know, and that is that the Netherlands is currently going through a huge crisis and that these companies are responsible for some 100 billion in investment per year. We also know from the Central Planning Bureau that a decrease of 9% is foreseen for this year and 10 billion for next year below the level for corona. Those are huge amounts of money. If you manage to continue some of the investments in this way, it will indeed have a huge impact on employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u145	This is way too easy. The cabinet cannot ask to give a carte blanche for 2 billion euros tax relief for companies, if on the other hand it is hard on our caregivers. It will be paid with half a bonus and a commission that will study for six months on exactly what is going to end up with that investment when salaries go up, whether that will work out well and will end up with the right people and not with the wrong ones. And when it comes to yet another tax rebate for companies, I mentioned it: abolishing dividend tax, reducing profit tax and now a new measure in the same vein, the investment rebate... It is completely unclear which investments are needed. It is completely unclear where that will end up. No matter how often the Prime Minister uses the word "jobs," he still cannot indicate what this will do for the jobs. At the same time, the cabinet is asking us to give carte blanche here for an investment of EUR 2 billion, for a tax reduction of EUR 2 billion. Mr President, I cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u146	No, but I'm not asking you to. As I said, we have to work on the proposal. It will be finished on 5 October and a debate will be held on it. That makes perfect sense. I'm not asking for a carte blanche here. I am merely explaining what is meant by this instrument. Two. There is 1 billion ready for higher salaries in healthcare, apart from the bonus of €1,000 this year and €500 next year. So it's not like nothing's gonna happen. Mrs Marijnissen wants more on top of that. It is a political reality that she can ask this, but it is not the case that in health care salaries do not go up. There is 1 billion earmarked for collective bargaining increases for 2021. Again, aside from the bonuses. This is really necessary because you have to do and-and-and. You must and must try to maintain the purchasing power of people in a crisis. I think we agree that these purchasing power figures have relative value. Whatever you need to do is to ensure that you keep as much jobs as possible in the Netherlands. One of the effects of a crisis is, of course, that investment is falling sharply, which has a direct impact on the job-generating capacity of the economy. This type of measure is therefore necessary. In general, you have to keep looking at the load pressure. Then you can see in the distribution of citizens' businesses that a hole of 10 billion has grown. Plus 5 billion for citizens, minus 5 billion for businesses. So it's not like this cabinet benefits companies, on the contrary. That's what I find explainable in a crisis. Finally, yes, there was initially the idea of a reduction in corporate tax. That is a reduction in the tax on profits. The analysis we have made as a team is whether it is the first concern at the moment to help companies with profits. So leave that what it is, but see how you can focus much more on a measure that has an effect in a crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u147	Just a quick word about the healthcare pay. On the previous subject, the Prime Minister said that it was his job to tell the truth here. I would like to remind him of that, because in terms of healthcare salaries, the fair fact is that the space available for the increase for next year has been negatively adjusted by EUR 445 million. Those are the honest facts in terms of healthcare salaries. Then there's the investment discount. The Prime Minister has no story. The cabinet has no story. We read in the media that there is currently plenty of discussion in the cabinet about this investment discount, whether it is indeed the right investment, whether it has the right return, or whether there will be no improper use. I would ask the Prime Minister not to refer this to the future. That happened yesterday when we asked for additional information. That's when it was said it's gonna be October 5th. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister, because I am getting a bit of a déjà vu from abolishing the dividend tax. If he believes that this is really necessary, that this will provide those jobs, then there will be a better explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u148	I cannot take Mrs Marijnissen into this thought. I have no choice but to point out that a cabinet in economically difficult times, where the economy is not the foundation of problems but is getting a huge blow because we all spend less because we have been home for a while and there are still serious concerns about people at all, must see how you can keep as many jobs as possible. You have to do it in every way you can. Of course, you do that with the packages we are going to talk about, the NOW scheme and other arrangements. But you also do that by ensuring that companies maintain a somewhat acceptable investment environment in the Netherlands. Then you will see where, in such a crisis in particular, you can take a measure that will allow us to dampen the decline in investment, which we see in the predictions. You do. That is important, because that part of a global approach helps all, shoulder to shoulder, safe distance, to sail through the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u149	Then I have Mr Asscher, Mr Segers and Mrs Ouwehand as the first group. Then I have Mr Azarkan, Mr Baudet, Mr Wilders and Mr Van der Staaij, and I understand Mr Klaver. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u150	I spoke yesterday half the time about the problem of people losing their jobs and of too few new jobs being created. That's the big assignment. But if you want to spend $2 billion, $2 billion to invest in work, you have an expensive duty to account for it better than it is now. Because what the Prime Minister is proposing here is a measure that is totally unfocused, which seems totally ineffective and which not only does not convince us, but warns the Central Planning Bureau: this leads to improper use. And "actual use" is, in ordinary people's language, just abuse, fraud. You're using it for the wrong things. In ordinary people, not being Ferd Grapperhaus, that leads to fines. Mr. Chairman. This measure is not just old politics. In the 1980s, in 1988, it was said that this patch on the economy should be removed, because it leads to huge costs and does not create jobs. So the question is: what guarantees does the Prime Minister offer? If it's in two and a half weeks, October 5th, it's there now. And if the Prime Minister has no idea, he better say it now, because then we can now decide on better spending. What guarantees are there for how many jobs and against abuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u151	I have already said that in the case of fiscal measures, you can never say exactly how many jobs that will or will not create. What you do know is that you have to do two things for companies in a crisis, and that apart from all the other things you have to do to organize job retention, which we're going to talk about. There's two things you have to look out for in companies. First of all, the general burden on companies is such that they can continue to take some action. Then you will see that in the Netherlands, in this crisis, the burden on businesses is huge, with some EUR 5 billion, where the burden on citizens is falling by EUR 5 billion. People work at these companies. If those burdens increase, you have the risk that there will eventually be fewer people working there. Three quarters of all Dutch people work either in their own company or in a company in which they are employed. The second thing you have to do, where you try to keep your burdens manageable in general, is to look, if there are proposals in there about, for example, lowering the income tax, or that is the most appropriate. We've had that debate here before. Do you have to do that in a crisis? Is the biggest concern reducing taxes on profits, the Vpb reduction? We have looked at this as a cabinet and we have said that there is an argument not to do so in such a crisis, because that is not your first concern. The more targeted use of such relief would therefore result in a burden increase of still 5 billion, but it would be 7 billion if you did not do this. Not reducing the tax on profits, but stimulating investment has to do with such a crisis, because that is what you see in those figures too: investments are at risk of falling. That is a huge amount in the Netherlands per year from the companies around 100 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u152	Those are all generalities. There's an investment going on. That's gonna go backwards. So it's important. But the question I asked was much more precise. In this measure, therefore, a company that makes an investment receives a discount. That is no incentive whatsoever for that production line that will or will not be there. I wish. This is a completely unfocused investment discount. The question I asked was not in general: investments are important. Or: do we like jobs? Or: is it good that there are companies? That's not the point of the discussion at all. The discussion is about the fact that in this crisis, where unemployment is rising and companies are struggling, you say that you are going to spend 2 billion, you need a better basis than here. The Prime Minister began his speech by seeking support for his plans. Why should I support this plan on behalf of the Labour Party if there is no beginning of an explanation if I do not see a job with it? I'm talking about real jobs now. There are plenty of examples of how to spend that money better. You can now do a load relief that you can now do what Building Netherlands has been helped with, which construction workers work with. And then you can prove that it creates jobs and that it doesn't lead to abuse. In other words, I repeat my question: what guarantees are there against abuse and how many jobs will it create? 'Cause otherwise we don't have to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u153	This tax measure is, of course, primarily concerned with the general burden on businesses. In addition, we are putting him in a position to address, as specifically as possible, an issue that arises in the crisis, namely a decline in the number of investments. As I said earlier, such a measure can never be linked to an exact number of jobs. That's just the honest answer. But one thing you do know, is what happens if you do not take this kind of measures and increase the burden on business by another 2 billion by spending the money, for example, on healthcare salaries or on more Defence spending or more police. Of course, we can do all that, too. You can also spend it on other things; I understand that very well. But in the end, it's a balance. You'll always have to do everything in that balance at the same time, making choices in scarcity. This means both finding money for healthcare salaries and making sure that there is investment in other public services, but also ensuring that a strong Dutch business remains. This business is currently suffering from the crisis. In any case, it is faced with a burden increase. One of the issues that arises in such a crisis concerns a decline of around 9% in investment. That's demonstrable; I'm not making that up, but that's what the Central Planning Bureau says. This decline amounts to some EUR 10 billion in 2021. So then it makes sense to look at how we can ensure that we encourage companies to make that investment anyway and not, out of concern about the economic situation, to transfer those investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u154	Mr Segers and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u155	It is true that the scheme has not yet been worked out, but it is also very special to fill in a scheme that has not yet been worked out. We agree on the objective of innovation and jobs. Then the question is: what activity do you stimulate? We have family businesses that create an honor to provide people with a lifetime's work, to help them move from one job to another and to develop. There are very nice examples of that. But there are also other types of companies. This concerns companies with shareholders who are sometimes very controlling. In that respect, we still have a very small piece of garbage to get rid of, the Prime Minister and I. When I talked about shareholder capitalism, he said on several occasions: Mr Segers does not quite know who those shareholders are; they are all sweet people and they are pension funds. There's really more to be said about that. So it's also the question of what kind of activity and which companies you want to stimulate. What kind of economy do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u156	Yeah, that's more...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u157	Maybe I could run the case? That's a case I don't mean bullying, because that's not how we treat each other at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u158	Well...! Still.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u159	No. The first case that comes up to me is Unilever. There was a top man who said he wanted more sustainable choices and that he wanted to choose the Netherlands. Then there was a hostile bid. In early 2017, there was an attempt to take over the company. That's what shareholders were after. Those were aggressive venture investors who wanted to take over the company. This had a major impact on the location of the head office and on the nature of the company. And Polman's plans have been rerouted. Then you can't say: they're just nice people, they're all pension funds, that's all of us? Like it's a dance around the May Tree! Sometimes it's really rough. Then there is the question, in this debate here: what kind of activity do we want to stimulate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u160	Yeah, to a certain extent. In general: what kind of business do you want, what kind of structure do you want in your economy? This is going to go away from the BIK for a little while. Yes, it is true that companies can become victims of a very bad wind and a threatening takeover. That happens and that's part of the system we have, not the most beautiful part. What I responded to was the idea that shareholders of companies are a problem in themselves. Apparently it isn't; I'm glad. These shareholders are largely our pension funds. They have the shares in those companies. In addition, they are private individuals and, of course, institutional investors, but mostly they are pension assets in the Netherlands of 1.4 or 1.5 trillion, 15,000 billion, or no, 1,500 billion. Those pension funds, of course, invest in companies. That's awfully important. I'd like to warn you about this. I am in favour of a Netherlands where there is room for any kind of activity. That goes from the self-employed person who is not forced to do so because he has to hand in his self-employed allowance at a lower rate, but who is really happy as a self-employed person, to the small entrepreneur on the corner, to the vegetable farmer who employs a few people, to the big company. But this is also about the very large company, which once again creates a lot of jobs for smaller companies. May I give you one example? I was talking to Shell this week, and I gave them feedback. I said, you always put the emphasis on your renewables business, but of course it's small. It grows, but it's small. It's wonderful what they're doing in that new economy, but of course it's still, to a large extent, a classic oil and gas company. But it is an oil and gas company that is engaged in a transition that is similar to the Dutch climate transition. They have to do exactly the same. If they are to survive, just as the Netherlands must survive, they will eventually have to get rid of those fossil fuels and make that whole transition. Then what a blessing if you have such a company in the Netherlands, with all its innovative power, and you can almost do that hand in hand. We also work intensively with them. You know that a lot of smaller companies deliver to such a large company. Because of social objectives but also because of the structure of your economy, you need that mix of self-employed without staff, the smaller companies and also those large companies. You need them all. What I am occasionally concerned about is that in the social debate we are threatening to go a little further towards the fact that these big companies are not good. I have two criticisms of these large companies. Mr Segers knows that. One. They need to be on TV more. Tell your story. They don't do that enough. Some do: Van Houten van Philips will be on television. But too much doesn't work. And two. If things go well after a crisis, you also just have to share it with your employees in the form of higher salaries. That was my point at a speech at a congress of my party last year. There it goes better now, but it can still be better. It is therefore not perfect, but in the Netherlands we must be careful to say that these very large companies are not good. You really need it. In the case of Shell, you even need it for very large societal goals. Sorry, that was a bit of vision, Jesse. As the Netherlands, we can lead the global climate transition and the whole approach to reducing CO2 emissions. We can be at the forefront of this, precisely because we have our innovations and universities. This is partly the result of the large companies. You have Philips and Eindhoven, and Shell and Delft. Those universities have their origins in that. The best minds work there. Those companies themselves are going through exactly the same transition. That's an insane opportunity. Then you are also able to show the world in the longer term: if you want to solve these problems, you have to be here. But then it's so important that you realize that everything is related to everything and that one-sided punching on a few big companies is just not convenient, no matter how popular that may be for a while. I'm not saying that because I want to defend these big companies, but because people work there. A lot of people deliver to these big companies and there is a lot of innovation. You're gonna need it, too. If they just don't take their social responsibility, I'll be the first to tell them. That's what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u161	I fully agree with a large part of the argument. Shell is not our enemy, but a potential partner in an energy transition if it sets the right priorities. So we will indeed have to have that conversation with that company. A lot of people work there who make their money in a very nice way. But Unilever had beautiful, sustainable plans and has been whistled back. They had a hostile takeover bid that was very threatening and that was the leverage that caused them to change course. That's what happened. There are companies that borrow money to artificially keep the value of the shares high, to buy their own shares. So these are imbalances that call for a correction. I agree that we need to keep the channels open with those companies. I agree that they are part of the social debate and that they have social goals. I also agree that they can just earn their money and be a healthy business. But where things go wrong, it is also the question of what that requires of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u162	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u163	For example, how do you deal with foreign capital and equity? How do you appreciate that? Then we'll have to adjust, won't we? We have to say that we appreciate a particular type of activity in these companies and give them room for it, but that we cut off a certain kind of activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u164	I agree with that, but you can also see what we in the coalition have been talking about. How do you deal with the proposals of the Ter Haar Committee, for example? In the end, this will lead to a burden of some 700 million. That's in that number. Of those 5.1 billion companies are going to pay more next year, 1.1 billion is therefore largely Ter Haar. So it's in there, too. When we said that we were not going to do that tax reduction, I think we all agreed, even widely in the Chamber, that that would apply to the larger companies. But for the smaller companies, we wanted to lower the rate to 15% and we wanted to move the amount for which that low rate applies to up to four tonnes. That's what we say: it works there. So I agree. You really have to look at the whole composition of your tax mix every time and whether you're stimulating the right things. I very much agree with Mr Segers. I'm going to say one more thing about this. I said just now that three things are essential to me in the next five to ten years: our jobs, the question of how to keep the country safe, both here and internationally, and whether the Netherlands remains the Netherlands. That's part of my belief that people always connect with other people. This creates a structure in society, an inspiring relationship in society, as Frits Bolkestein once called it, and that is essential. That's in all our political movements. This includes, I say to Mr Asscher, that the Netherlands is not an example. I really agreed with him when he said that yesterday. If I ever said that, it's really stupid, because I really agree with him on this point. "Running the toko," "Running the e.g. the Netherlands," I hate those words. I may have been guilty of that once, but I agree with him that these are not the right terms. So I also agree with what was said about this by Dijkhoff and Heerma, who both spoke yesterday about the polder model. It is very special that in this crisis Koolmees and Wiebes sit at the table every Thursday with the trade unions and employers. This is an essential element of our society. This includes simply being critical of companies and also looking critically at the tax mix, if it stimulates things that you do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u165	The conclusion. The Liberal Prime Minister says: we are people of community; we need social connections and we need poldering. That's all profit. We also need companies and innovation. If things go wrong there, for example in rewards or with shareholders, who are only concerned with dividends and for the rest nothing at all, then we need to adjust and correct them. If he then acknowledges that there are also nice people in pension funds who are shareholders and recognizes that there are also people in there that we need to correct once in a while and put a little distance, then we have already moved a lot further in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u166	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u167	Mr. Azarkan. Then Mr Baudet and then Mr Wilders. Oh, Mr. Baudet doesn't have to anymore. Mr. Azarkan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u168	The Prime Minister says in this document that there is no reduction in the tax on profits, but of course that is the case indirectly. He himself has not properly indicated or described what exactly is the purpose of the IGG and who is eligible for it. Who does and who doesn't? Let us give the following example. Suppose next year the KLM buys two Boeings for 200 million. Is that an example of how this investment scheme, this BIK, can be used?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u169	Yes. It also depends on the exact design. Of course, you should also see if you want to do something specifically for the smaller companies or the very large companies. But in general, it is that very large 100 billion pot that companies spend on investments in their production models, provided they also have a wage charge, so they employ people. So I do think that the example could also be included. I just don't think this is gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u170	There are already several arrangements. We know about the small-investment scheme. The Prime Minister could also have said: we are going to expand it for the really smaller entrepreneurs, for the SMEs, because they are also having a more difficult time. The second example: let's say Albert Heijn says he's going to build five new stores. Then he gets an indirect profit tax discount, actually through wages. Is this also an example that leads to Albert Heijn hiring more people? Because that's actually the idea: to keep jobs for the next ten years. That's what the Prime Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u171	Yes, also because the investments that have to be made, of course, are organised by companies. That Boeing needs to be built somewhere. That is why this example will not apply here. When Albert Heijn opens a new branch, many people who work at Maxime Verhagen, at Building Netherlands, will be pleased. Of course, it has a huge impact on the economy when investment takes place. Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u172	There's still a couple of MPs out there. Mr Wilders and then Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u173	It is very interesting what the Prime Minister says about companies, but can we talk about the people in the country who are watching television at home and thinking: all beautiful and beautiful, those companies, it's good if people keep their jobs, but what about my income, what about my pension, what about my purchasing power? Prime Minister, you just said that the purchasing power cards are all relative, but what do you deserve? You earn €7,000 net per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u174	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u175	€7,000 net per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u176	That's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u177	Madam President, I think I was speaking. You'll just be retired. You'll only be retired and have to live with €1,300 net per month. You see that the rents go up and you see that you can't pay your energy bill anymore, and you see that you already have trouble paying for the care and that own risk of €385. You can see you're not getting anything and the money's going abroad. When are you going to stand up for those ordinary people in the country, for those pensioners or those with a minimum or a modal income, who have a normal job or a benefit against their will? When are you going to stand up for these people instead of talking about the companies all the time? We have been here for an hour; you have not spoken once about the purchasing power of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u178	I stand before all those normal people who contribute to this society, and I hope that we all stand before those people. That is a subject we have been discussing, but we will of course also be discussing matters relating to the rest of the economy and pensions. I can pick it up now. When we talk about that, it becomes even more visible. But when you talk about those companies, Mr Wilders said it himself, too, you talk about jobs, and about job retention. That's important to people. The most important thing in a crisis is that people do not lose their jobs. It's about trying to prevent that as much as possible and trying to organize that if it does happen and a job can't be saved, you can stimulate people and help them on their way to another job. That's what you do. We're in an economic downturn right now. This is inevitable now, as a result of the crisis we are in. You're trying to limit that damage as much as possible, because the underlying power of the economy is good. What I just said about these purchasing power cards is: boys, who average 0.8% or 0.9%, we will see afterwards whether that has been achieved. That's what the Central Planning Bureau is charging for right now, but I'm not gonna show off because there are so many uncertainties. Therefore, the priority must not be the purchasing power picture, but the priority must be to maintain as many jobs as possible in this crisis. That's the goal, for very ordinary people, for whom we're all sitting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u179	You'll only be 72. You'll only be 72 years old and haven't been indexing your pension for a few years, or been cut short on your pension for a few years. Then you hear the Prime Minister here saying, "He's got it." He doesn't even mention pensioners. Then you hear the Prime Minister say it's about a job, or else you're going to another job. You'll only be 72 and have worked hard your whole life, or you'll only be 66 and have worked in construction. Your back is broken, you're sitting there at home, you're not getting a pension, and you hear the Prime Minister say, "Well, then you're going from one job to another." What kind of world alienity do you have? Pensioners don't stand a chance of getting another job. The people over 50, if they have not yet retired, have almost no chance of getting an ordinary job without the crisis. So I find it unbelievable that the Prime Minister simply forgets pensioners. Make sure those pensions are not reduced. Madam President. Now the other people. You say again: yes, I make €7,000, but those people get 0.8%. You know: that's probably a very fat, fat min with the local loads. But you do have gifts and loans on your hands in half of Europe. You're giving money to the Greeks and you're giving money to the Germans. You're giving money to the Italians and the French. You're gonna give it to them and you're gonna lend it to them. And the Netherlands is a fund of 750 billion euros in loans and gifts for 6%. That's 50 billion euros from the Netherlands. 50 billion euros from the Netherlands goes across the border. And here the pensioners forget, and here say "0.8% is enough," and every month they go home with €7,000: what kind of Prime Minister is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u180	I'm just gonna peel it off. First, the issue of pensions. Mr Wilders is right to draw attention to this. I also intended to deal with this in detail. He's encouraging me to do that even faster, so I'm going to do that now, because that's a fair point. But again, I certainly wouldn't have forgotten that if he hadn't asked the question, because it's an essential point. With regard to pensions, we are now seeing that with the introduction of a new system we are making it much more future-proof. This also makes it possible, because it is becoming more personal and transparent, to give more indexing perspective. That's what people, I think, will think is important. There is more risk of this, that is what I am saying honestly with regard to this issue, but there is also a more indexing perspective. This means that there is also a greater chance that pension benefits may increase, unless it is very bad, then there is a risk that they will fall. But with increasing returns, they can go up. That was the problem with the old system; it was not possible to do so. The solidarity of the system and its collectivity have also remained intact. I think that's something people really appreciate. We talked about my salary. It's true. It's a little more than that. I thought it was $7,100 net. I think Mr Wilders has about $500 under there. I think he has about €6,500 net a month as group chairman of a large party. It's true that it's huge salaries that he and I deserve. This also means that we have to work hard for it and that we have to do our best for all Dutch people. I shall now turn to the European story. There's something about that. You immediately attach conditions to support for countries that are currently at risk of falling so far that they cannot make it on their own. It is essential that they implement the conditions they have not implemented in all these years so that they can take care of themselves next time. It is therefore aid in exchange for very concrete and harsh conditions. If you don't do this, you run two risks. The first risk is that Europe will perish economically. That is not in the interests of the Netherlands, because we are the largest exporter of this continent. The second risk is that Europe weakens, also as an organisation, in which embedded The Netherlands has more security. We can't do it alone in the world. So we have a great direct, national interest in preventing that. But, I say, it's directly linked to terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u181	Finally, my third round in this interruption. Pensioners have had no indexing or hardly any indexing for years. Some of them have gone down in nominal terms. What good is it if you say, "Well, there will be a new system. In the future, maybe you'll get a little more or a little less sooner"? Those people have been in the cold for years, and you're not giving them anything. You need to take care of those people now. It can't be that you make up half of Europe, while the purchasing power of the Dutch... You cannot abandon the elderly, the workers and the people with benefits. Then I come to my second point. The Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, says: "Yes, but otherwise those countries will not make it." Don't fool people! I just called the prime minister "the prime minister of deception." As a gift, you give EUR 47 billion to Germany. Don't tell me that Germany wouldn't make it without that EUR 47 billion gift. Germany is richer than the Netherlands, has more economic growth than the Netherlands and has a higher GDP than the Netherlands. And Germany gets 47 billion euros! Mr. Rutte, your credibility is already hanging by a thread. Don't fool people. You keep them in the dark. You give hundreds of billions, including 50 billion Dutch money, to countries like Germany and France. It really is not just about Italy, Spain and Portugal. You should never have signed that money. You had the pensioners, the workers, the families who make that money here in the Netherlands... You were not elected by the Italian or German people, but you were elected by the Dutch people. I am ashamed that we do not have a prime minister who says, "I am here for our people. You will get that money and not the people abroad."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u182	Then Mr Wilders must tell the whole story. Germany does not receive 47 billion from the Netherlands and does not even get a net 47 billion from Europe. Germany betált net. They can, like the Netherlands, get money out of that fund, but they pay much more to the fund than they get out. They're a net contributor, just like the Netherlands. Precisely to ensure that some economies that haven't reformed for too long... That's the deal, too. To a number of countries in the south, we have said, "We are willing to help you one more time, provided that you carry out the reforms in return for the money you can invest." That's the deal. It is therefore directly linked to conditions. That'll get you two things. You achieve that the countries do not fall over, because if these countries fall over, it will have far-reaching consequences, including for our economy. Two, you're making sure that Europe stays strong. The Netherlands has an interest in a strong European Union in an uncertain world, because we cannot do it alone. We can't make it on our own. We must be embedded in that strong structure, as in NATO and in the United Nations. That's why we do that. But we do in exchange for those reforms. This is also important for pensioners in the Netherlands. Security is important. But it is also important, because without economic growth and without return on pension funds, the chances of indexing are decreasing. The new pension system will increase these opportunities again. Yeah, it's true there are risks, too. That's what I'm gonna say right away. It all remains as it was, namely: solidarity and transparency. But there is no greater chance of indexing if the economy deteriorates further. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u183	You almost forgot, but if you look at the figures carefully, you can see that the budget we are discussing today is an historic budget. After the war, there's never been a budget with such a big hole. There are reasons for that. The Prime Minister has indicated this and I agree with that. I'm not saying it's a shame that this is happening now. Thanks to the buffers that were there because of caution in the past, we can also offer that support. But it does give us a huge responsibility, at least that's how I feel about saying it to future generations: yes, how do we avoid going on this tour and when do we have manageable public finances again? Would the Prime Minister be more specific about this? Can he give us a little more perspective on when we can get back to that old financial normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u184	That will not be next year and perhaps not even the following year. It is not exactly predictable, because the estimates in the Millions Note and the multiannual estimates of the Central Planning Bureau are surrounded by enormous uncertainties. But I have just said it, and perhaps I can say a little more about it: the economists' debate in the Netherlands is about why we cut back in the previous crisis and increased the burden and why we are not doing it now. Again, at the core, this is another crisis, because it does not touch the foundation of the economy. It's because of a pandemic, which, in a well-running economy, led us all, as it were, to a medical and economic impact block, which has just led to a lot less spending on all of us. As a result, we have this economic damage together. You need to limit it as much as you can. So you're not gonna cut back now or increase the burden. Now we are very lucky as the Netherlands, and then I make it a little bit more political: there were here in the Chamber, also in recent years I have often had the debates here, many parties, including Mr Van der Staaij, who said: spend a little more, it goes so well, let the deficit go further. I am so glad that we have not done so, that we have managed to build up a great apple for thirst through falling public debt, so that we now also have that buffer to take this blow. At the moment, we are growing to some 60% debt relative to national income. If the virus hits worse, it'll go a little further, but we can handle it too. We'll be way below the European average. We are under Germany and you really need to go to the Baltic countries to find that kind of debt set against national income. So we have that space. But it is true: you must now do everything you can to get economic growth going again. Fortunately, next year, in the predictions, you will see a return to growth. It's not a V in one go, it's gonna take a few years, but that means you're gonna be on a path where you're gonna be able to gradually reduce public debt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u185	I agree. I share the Prime Minister's analysis. But the point remains that you can say that it is temporary expenditure in the context of the corona crisis. But it's not like the pictures show it's gonna be okay. There is still an account somewhere, which we will most likely have to take action again sooner or later. It's not gonna be okay in the pictures by itself. The economist debate on this issue is not uniform. Does that mean you can let it go for the time being? Or do you really have to take the 60% debt standard seriously again in a few years? At least the SGP Group is on that line, and I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister shares that perspective and whether he would like to promote it. This is to prevent the next time being said: don't worry, open locks, it'll be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u186	Of course, we have to keep looking at that. I agree with you that there are two important things you are going on. One is Gerrit Zalm and his standard that if the revenue decreases you will not also reduce the expenditure immediately. We don't. At the same time, however, the Minister for Finance has been very keen to ensure that structural expenditure does not increase suddenly. But you do have a hole, of course, because the revenue is losing. That's a hole that won't be closed in one go, it'll take more time. In addition, of course, you have a huge increase in public debt as a result of the emergency packages, but still, as it now looks like, you're looking at about that 60%. That's one-off money, that's not structural money. It's all a one-time thing, but it's very important to keep as many jobs as possible. You will have to look very closely at what is happening to the economy, with your growth, with your unemployment rates and with the costs behind it for what is needed in the longer term. Can you restore this completely through growth or do we need additional measures? I agree with Van der Staaij, but I would just say that from my political point of view rather than as Prime Minister of this cabinet, because we have not yet had the full debate, also because it may be less relevant to this team. That's gonna be more like after the election. It is, of course, important to continue to focus on those important indicators of sound public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u187	Mr Klaver and then Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u188	It seems as if the Prime Minister has not learned anything from the whole discussion on dividend taxation. There was then a tax no one knew what the effect would be. There's been a lot of discussion, and eventually he left the table. With the income tax it went exactly the same: a silent death died. Yet another 2 billion will be brought to large business. We do not yet have the beginning of an idea of what the effect on the investments you want to provoke with this will be. This is just a farewell gift for Hans de Boer, nothing more, nothing less. This Prime Minister has proposed that the large business sector should still receive a tax reduction of 2 billion in this cabinet period. Each time a different gift is chosen. My question is: is the Prime Minister prepared to look with the Chamber at an alternative use for this 2 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u189	No, we support this measure. It is not aimed at big business, by the way. I don't know where Mr. Klaver gets that. This is for the business community, so also for small businesses. It applies to the full width of Dutch business. So it's not aimed at big companies. That's a real misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u190	The CPB warns that this scheme is very similar to an arrangement from the 1980s, which was completely out of control. With this kind of general generic investment scheme, we have bad experiences when it comes to creating jobs or triggering additional investment. All we know is that this is the erosion of the taxes that companies pay, while EUR 2 billion is very much needed in this crisis. I'd like to see it in the public sector. The cabinet says: I am not prepared to do so; we must put it into the market. Is this Prime Minister prepared to look at alternatives? We know that investing directly in construction now has a real impact on the economy. In the end, this is only shareholders' bacon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u191	The latter is simply not true. That's bullshit. I'm sorry, but what do you mean "shareholders"? This also goes to smaller companies. This also goes to larger companies that otherwise... This ensures the maintenance of employment. So it's just really not true. But apart from that, because Mr Klaver has another, rightly, point: you have to be extremely careful not to make the mistake of the Investment Account Act of the 1980s. That's what the Central Planning Bureau is warning us about. That was the famous WIR between 1978 and 1988. There are two really important and substantial differences from the WIR. This will also be evident from the work done. The BIK is a temporary crisis instrument and is not structural. In doing so, you will ensure that investments are untied just in time of crisis. Secondly, the size of the budget is really considerably smaller than it was at the time. That makes it more manageable. That's a really big difference from the WIR. But I agree with Mr Klaver that we need to show in the work how the BIK differs from that and what lessons we have learned from it. He's just right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u192	Name 2 billion in size but limited. What can we all do for other things with EUR 2 billion? I want us to rely on facts here. This was not the case with the proposal to remove the dividend tax, nor was it the case with the proposal to reduce the tax on profits. Again, with the BIK, we do not base ourselves on facts. I'm looking at the numbers from the Central Planning Office. Investment is forecast to recover by 7% next year. That is, of course, not at the level we expected, but it is a huge recovery. And then we're going to spend money, EUR 2 billion, when we don't know if it really contributes to restoring the economy. That's a mistake. Because the Prime Minister calls on parties such as GroenLinks, I ask for cooperation in this crisis. I say here that's what we want. We've been doing that since spring. That's what we keep doing. But I'm asking the Prime Minister if he's willing to look at an alternative interpretation of this $2 billion. Because I can predict how this is going to work. Towards October 5th, when the plans of the cabinet come, it will appear that the CPB has no evidence that it contributes to the economy. Then it will turn out that this was just a lobbying wish from VNO-NCW, that it was a gift for Hans de Boer. Then we will have high-level debates here, which I do not think is necessary. Return to your steps; the arrangement has not yet been worked out. Let's think of something else that's better for all those people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u193	A few things. One. It is not a relief for business. If we did not do this, the burden would not be increased by 5 billion but by 7 billion. Two. In 2021, investments in the Netherlands are still at 10 billion below the level we had for corona. Three. I am proud that this cabinet, I have just said this in response to Dijkhoff and Heerma, talks intensively with polder organisations, social partners, employers and employees. We look together to see what is necessary in this crisis. So I am not ashamed at all if there is consultation with employers' organisations. We are open to substantive or administrative criticism and to criticism from the CPB. But in the end, I think it's very good that you're trying to come up with a sensible policy in this way. We're gonna work it all out. That comes back here October 5th. Then we open the debate with each other. But then I hope that Mr Klaver will be open to being persuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u194	I'm telling you, Mr. Clover, you're starting to go through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u195	Yes, Mr President, but it is the Political Reviews and it is an important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u196	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u197	I want to be convinced of everything, but of course I have to see facts. So far, I do not see any fact that indicates that this arrangement can work and that it is more than a gift. If the Prime Minister says "I want to convince Mr Klaver," then I do need information. Is the Prime Minister prepared to share with the Chamber all the memos on which it is based, for example on where it comes from, what the official opinions of both EZ and Finance are and how it has been discussed? Maybe he can convince me, but I'll need this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u198	Why don't we just wait and see the cabinet proposal? That's my proposal. On October 5th we'll be done. Let's just come up with a piece first. More things have not yet been worked out in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u199	Mr President, the absolutely strange...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u200	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u201	Yeah, I'm closing up. The strange thing about this is that a new arrangement has been devised. That went with a lot of bombs: it's so much needed to get our economy out of this crisis stronger! But we have no idea what that arrangement looks like. It's still to be worked out. It is EUR 2 billion when the budget is presented to the House of Representatives, but there is no starting point. In history this has not happened before, that such a large amount is spent in a new scheme, when we have no idea what that will do. The Prime Minister is really defending it as if it is the most brilliant invention ever and says he is going to convince us, but he does not even know what the effect of this arrangement is. He doesn't even know how this BIK is going to contribute to a stronger economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u202	Yeah, you know, if you're gonna pursue perfection in a crisis, you're not gonna make any decisions anymore. The worst thing that the Dutch would blame Mr Klaver and me is that we do not make decisions. In a crisis you have constant considerations to consider: what is wise? First of all, it is not wise to increase the burden on business by another 2 billion. Two. There were rightly reflections here in the Chamber on whether it would be wise to reduce the tax on profits in a crisis. Well, that's a fair point. We talked about that very well, and then you're gonna see what's wise. I'm not ashamed that we talk about this kind of thing with employers and employees. We are in close contact with employers and employees throughout the support package. You will see with each other what a sensible direction is to a prevent the burden from increasing by another 2 billion and b you will use the situation in which the Netherlands is now in. That's what we're gonna work out. That comes October 5th to this Chamber. In a crisis, it's all gonna have to be quick. The same applies to the aid packages and to all kinds of other matters. We don't have much time. It's all gonna have to be quick. That is also right, but that also means that not everything has gone beyond comma. But I am telling you here today, in my view, that I am doing so in quite detail what the objectives of this scheme are and what it is going to look like in general terms. We're gonna have to work this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u203	Mrs. Ouwehand, would you like to be the last one, or would you like to go now? 'Cause you're actually the last one left. We're gonna keep that. Then I go to Mrs Van Brenk, then to Mr Azarkan and finally to Mrs Ouwehand. At least, on this part. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u204	I was indeed waiting for the part where pensions would be discussed, but Mr Wilders gave a nice kick-off. The purchasing power for pensioners is 0.4%. They're the last in line. The beneficiaries have 0.5%. But pensioners are at the bottom with 0.4% purchasing power. The day before yesterday the newspaper said that there was a threat of pension reductions, 4%. How are we gonna do that, Prime Minister? How are we gonna make sure this group doesn't get so much worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u205	A brief and concrete question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u206	I have already said that I consider the purchasing power figure to be of limited relevance. Unlike other years, when we declare this sacred and cheerful here, there is so much uncertainty that you don't know all about it. What is at issue here is: are we doing nicely with all the income groups in the Netherlands, and thus with the elderly? I think we're trying to do that in a reasonable balance, although it'll never be perfect. I thought yesterday Mrs Van Brenk herself created the picture that older people's incomes have been on the zero line for decades. That's just not true. The AOW is indexed twice a year and for a lot of people it is the majority of their pension income. Nevertheless, I understand that the second pillar, the pension that you save at your company and your employer, has not or hardly increased for many years. I think we should get to the heart of the matter right away. Mrs Van Brenk says: freeze the interest rate to prevent and index discounts. But that is a balance where you have to do everything at the same time as politics, as a cabinet, namely to ensure that the elderly have a decent income, but also that young people, even in the future, can count on a pension. Isn't that real? It is true that the returns have increased, as Mrs Van Brenk pointed out, but the commitments have also increased at an equal pace. Commitments and returns are at the same level. So it's really unwise to do that. Nevertheless, we have pointed out the particular economic circumstances. That is why we have not chosen to cut by 104%, but it has been agreed that a 90% coverage rate in 2021 should not be reduced. This ensures that funds can recover, that there is no need to cut heavily into pension benefits and that deficits cannot be endlessly increased at the same time. So that too is a balance. Can you guarantee that there are no funds that don't cut short? No, you can't guarantee that, but you've reduced a whole lot of that problem. It's not gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u207	I will not be put in the mouth that I have not spoken. I have only mentioned a pension that is not indexed, 12 years. I didn't talk about the AOW, so I find it really disgusting that this minister is trying to rub that on us. That's not right. Mr. Chairman. This Prime Minister has just spoken about the indexing perspective. He just forgot to mention that that doesn't start until 2026. So all this time, all these people can't count on an increase in their pension. So they have to do it next year with a huge shortage, with a loss of purchasing power that is unprecedented. And there's no answer from this cabinet. That is what I now have to observe in response to this reply. Is that a correct representation, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u208	Well, no, it's not, but first at the point of the misunderstanding. For the people of the Netherlands, the pension is the sum of the first, second and sometimes third pillar. So when Mrs Van Brenk spoke about pensions, I assumed that she meant AOW and pension. If Mrs Van Brenk only meant pensions, then I wrongly quoted her. It's a good thing we've got that clear then. In addition, it is simply a fact that pension funds are struggling with their investment results. They are trying, also in the light of the new system that is to come, and it is still a while before it is all there; Mrs Van Brenk is right to make sure that you at least see if you can avoid discounts as much as possible. This means that, among other things, we have managed not to cut that 90% coverage rate in 2021 if you are above that level. Of course, that helps a lot of pension funds. The fact is, of course, that interest rates are very low in the Netherlands at the moment and therefore the investment results are also on average low. You can see that in those pensions. That is why I think it is fair to continue to say that for the vast majority of people the AOW is the largest pension income component. Otherwise there would not be a net increase in purchasing power from the transfer of the Central Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u209	Emphasis on "little." But this Prime Minister is trying to say again that it is all so disastrous with these pension funds. The returns are fantastic. The returns are good. In the last year it was even 12% at the ABP. On average, 7%. All pensions are indexed throughout Europe, except in the Netherlands. Mr President, I find it shocking. I'm sorry about the answer, too. If the elderly need it from this cabinet, I hope they will think further in March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u210	Then Mrs. Van Brenk has to tell the whole story here too. It is true that these pension funds have good returns, but also liabilities have increased at the same pace. Then you still have the same level of commitment. There may be higher investment returns, but there are also higher obligations. The cabinet must, of course, look at this and we are trying to do so through the financial review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u211	I get the impression that the Prime Minister would like to talk about this job-related investment discount. I've been thinking about that a little bit longer. My question is: how does the Prime Minister ensure that this link with new jobs is not deducted from labour costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u212	I just explained that you can't give guarantees for employment expectations. This is very difficult in the case of a tax measure. However, we have agreed that it only applies to companies which also have a wage bill. That's normal work. A company invests. In this case, in this scheme, you look at companies that also have a wage bill, and not just investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u213	But then the Prime Minister and his team just didn't think it through, at least not in advance. I hope the 5th of October is clear. I just gave the example of the KLM investing in two Boeings, or the Albert Heijn. But imagine that the KLM will arrange with that money that will be automatically checked in. It's at the expense of employees. Then the Albert Heijn says: we are going to invest in even cans. If they're eligible, we'll lose the jobs and lose the money. We don't have anything twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u214	No, it doesn't work that way. They're, of course, corporate resources. And it is true: strictly speaking, a means of operating can also be there to increase the proactivity of the company. This could, strictly speaking, have an effect on employment. That's true. But company resources come from somewhere. With such a scheme, you will ensure that the entire market of around 100 billion a year of investment, of which the business sector accounts for more than 80%, even more than 85%, and is under considerable pressure due to the crisis. The effect of this is, of course, that all those supplying companies, of those scanners, which Boeings, all the raw materials for that Boeings or that self-checking system at the KLM, must be built. This also leads to employment. So that always has an effect in the chain. But it is true: strictly speaking, an investment can also aim to make a company work better. Of course, that's also very healthy. But as a whole, this type of investment decision leads to employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u215	But that can also mean that we give the money to abroad, that we order it there. In this case, the Boeings, but also other assets. Then we don't have jobs here and we give our taxpayers' money to another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u216	Take the example of Airbus. If KLM orders Boeings, then Mr Azarkan is probably right. But when it orders Airbuses, it has a huge impact on Dutch employment, because Airbus has a very large supply industry in the Netherlands. That is one example in which the international supply chain is working together. Of course, it's about investments in company resources. They could also be bought abroad, strictly speaking. But the predominant share, especially in the company we are talking about, naturally leads to an expenditure in the Netherlands. This can lead to increased proactivity and leads to investment in expenditure that brings with it new jobs. That's what you want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u217	Mrs. Ouwehand, at last!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u218	Yes, Mr. Chairman, finally in this little block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u219	I saved it for the Prime Minister for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u220	For lunchtime, hoping this didn't bring his mood down to zero, but that never really happens to this Prime Minister. The other colleagues all had similar questions on one subject. I thought: my question is so different; I'll do it at the end. My question concerns the ground under the aid packages. Can the Prime Minister confirm that compensation is not mandatory if the public authorities are forced to take all kinds of public health measures to protect public health, because this is a public health issue? Can the government choose how it wants to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u221	This is about the mink, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u222	Mrs. Ouwehand? He's trying to do it subtlely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u223	I hear the Prime Minister slept well, but that doesn't really matter. I have a fundamental question first. I'm looking for those grounds for those support packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u224	I wish it were all so brilliantly thought out. We're in a crisis. You don't have that time to do all that until... Even with all the power of thought the government has, these kinds of packages of support are gross. There's no other way. You don't have time to... Moreover, the execution is so complex that you also have to keep it simple in the execution. But if you want to talk about the minks, we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u225	I do not think that my second interruption should go into this, because I simply asked a simple question. It seems to me that the Prime Minister should know whether the government is obliged to compensate if you have to intervene on the basis of public health. If he says 'I don't really know', then we have a very big problem, because then all entrepreneurs can go to court and say: I have had this loss of income, so just give me a break. So this is the fundamental question that lies under all the other questions that are yet to come. The government is not obliged to compensate when it comes to intervention on the basis of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u226	That's right, that's right. The answer to that is no. Absolutely, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u227	Good. Now let's go to the minks. The prime minister felt it coming. The minks appear to be intelligible for corona. The scientists are scratching behind the ears. They did not see that the number of infections in these farms would continue to be so enormous. So that's all much more contagious than I thought. Now it also turns out that there are many more people infected by these minks than they thought. So there is no reason for the cabinet not to say on the basis of public health: you can no longer breed with these animals? There is also an approved motion from the Party for Animals and the Labour Party. Then why does the cabinet choose a different route, a route that is much more expensive? In addition to the cost of the clearance and the cost of the accompanying policy for the conversion of the stables, this amounts to 150 million. That's $1.360,000 per mink fob. Why does the Cabinet choose that super-expensive route and that fur bonus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u228	Because we force companies to stop. That's the legal difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u229	Why does the Cabinet choose that option? The other option is a breeding ban and then the government is not obliged to compensate. What is happening now is that all kinds of entrepreneurs have had to deal with far-reaching measures taken by the cabinet. Nightclub owners still can't open, they also go bankrupt. Only the general aid packages are opposed to which mink breeders can also use, but for mink breeders a preferred route is chosen which is very expensive and inexplicable. I am simply asking the Prime Minister: why the preferential treatment for these entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u230	Because you can't force them to stop breeding forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u231	But that's not a justification. You can now impose the breeding ban. Probably gonna bankrupt those people. That's right, but that goes for a lot of other entrepreneurs. So why not opt for compensation and the route chosen for all other entrepreneurs in the Netherlands? We must act on the basis of public health. Then we don't have to compensate, but we do, because we don't just leave people to their fate. That goes for everyone but the mink breeders. They get more than a million euros, whilezzp'ers and the cultural sector have to do it with €5,500.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u232	Because it's actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u233	It's inexplicable. I ask the Prime Minister to change that arrangement together with the Minister for Health because it is also fair to the rest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u234	I don't think we do. Everything that is said here is chewed, but I do not want to raise expectations here. In fact, you're forcing companies to stop. Then I think it is fair that at that point in time you also legally mention that difference, and that is what this is about. That's just decent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u235	My final comment on this. The cabinet can choose to do this, but I wonder if I want those documents sent to the Chamber or whether the legal implications of that route have also been investigated. I can imagine that mink breeders who stopped earlier than when the corona crisis broke out will soon go to court and say: but the boys who continued are rewarded with €1.360,000, I would have liked that too. And get to know me those mink breeders, they're gonna go to court. So I'm very curious if the Cabinet has investigated those risks as well. The Chamber wants to see all the pieces. And I say that the Chamber also wants to see how the cabinet is now acting on the basis of the additional public health risks that were identified last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u236	I propose that this be dealt with in the relevant debate, but I am not going to give it my word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u237	Otherwise it will be a repetition of questions with the same answers. There's gonna be letters coming over, and there's gonna be another report to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u238	There will be periodic interim reports and we will take these questions into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u239	Good. Thank you. I will look at the Prime Minister and see if all the questions relating to the support package have been answered, because then I will suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u240	I've taken together the support package and the broad economy. If you'll allow me to check my papers so I don't skip anyone... In the meantime, I think, we have treated the BIK sufficiently. In the meantime, we have also dealt with pensions, also through all the interruptions. The fund has been dealt with. Maybe a few more little things, Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u241	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u242	How do we prevent investments in the Defense Department from falling behind? We don't foresee cuts in Defense, this cabinet period. This budget has been structurally increased by 1.5 billion. Then I have been asked whether I am prepared to lower the low VAT rate. No. We believe that this is too generic a measure with insufficient evidence for what that means. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the counter-budget. Maybe I can start with that after the break? I'll do that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u243	Fine. I see Mr Krol standing. Then comes Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u244	Wait a minute. So I'll do the counter-budget after the break...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u245	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u246	... and after the break I would also like to answer Mr Asscher's question on the work guarantee. Is that okay? Then I'll take it after the break, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u247	Yes. Mr. Krol, this microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u248	Wait a minute. I'm just negotiating with the chairman. So, after the break, I will deal with Mr Asscher's point about jobs and the appreciation of the counter-budget. Then I have a few small questions to ask. It has been asked to reduce the regulatory burden for companies with fewer than 50 employees. I would like to draw attention to the SME test that departments are obliged to carry out from 1 May 2019. Then we've been asked why we don't tax the actual return in box 3. That has everything to do with the execution. It would be nice if it could be done. We would also like to have it.But it is not yet technically possible. Then there was the question about Borstlap. How do we look at the labour market now? I would like to point out three points. One. The Labour Market Act in balance. Two. We have taken measures to facilitate employers' payment obligations so that they can more easily employ people on a permanent basis. Finally, in order to reduce the division, it is also important to reduce the differences in tax treatment between self-employed and entrepreneurs. Can people get the right to work at home one day a week? I understand that wish, but it has to be at home. The employer has a special responsibility for working conditions. This is now all part of the Working Flexible Act. It's being evaluated right now. It'll come out in the fall. I think that would be a good time to look into this issue. Mr President, apart from the two points I mentioned, I believe that I have answered all the questions on the economic front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u249	Yeah, exactly. Go ahead, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u250	The Prime Minister stresses the importance of jobs. I understand. But you can't keep doing that with subsidies forever, can you? Don't you get some zombie companies with people sitting at home? That's not going to win the economy in the end. Wouldn't it be much wiser if I came up with that last night to come up with a Marshall plan to make sure purchasing power goes up? Then you give an immediate boost to the economy. Wouldn't that contribute much more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u251	This indicates, for example, a generic VAT reduction, which has already been suggested here. But I just said that this is generic and unfocused, with the risk that it will eventually become part of people's savings. I would like to give them my heartfelt support, but with the NOW scheme, for example, we are looking very closely at those companies that do have the opportunity to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u252	It's very noisy in the hall. You're almost incomprehensible. You will answer the final questions of Mr Krol and Mrs Van Brenn. Then I'll suspend for a short lunch break. But it's almost impossible to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u253	No, exactly. I'm gonna talk a little louder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u254	No, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u255	In all seriousness: the NOW scheme is of course much more targeted. A generic measure also has a huge risk. It may be private for people, but it does not immediately lead to effects in the economy. However, I believe that, partly through the targeted use of measures, we are a little more favourable than other countries. After all, we have designed this quite specifically. This is also reflected in the European analysis of the Dutch approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u256	I was not talking about a VAT reduction, although I would not disagree with that. I talked about last night that you could do that with a tax cut that is specifically aimed at people at the bottom who are really getting tied up right now. I am also thinking of pensioners, whom Mrs Van Brenk and I are fighting for and who have really fallen behind in recent years. With a tax cut, that could very well end up directly with those people, wouldn't it? This would give an immediate boost to the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u257	Of course, I think a tax cut from my party card is very good. Only I think that it is not the most targeted measure now, viewed from the cabinet and, by the way, from that party map. We have to do so much to keep the economy going that it is not wise to do so. And by the way, we have some smaller tax cuts in it. Over the entire cabinet period, the burden on citizens is falling by 5 billion. That's a hell of a lot of money. They're down by 5 billion. But now, in the context of the crisis, an additional generic reduction at the bottom, however sympathetic: balanced against the other instruments we have, including the regulation towards companies where people work, towards the self-employed, towards business investment, I think this is more sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u258	Finally, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u259	Even if the director of the CPB 15 billion a year for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u260	Mr. Krol, in the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u261	...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u262	15 billion? Then I'd like to find it. I don't know about the 15 billion. Maybe he's saying the deficit could be higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u263	Well, Mr. Teulings strongly recommends it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u264	But he's never like that with those deficits. But then I will come to the somewhat more classic vision of Mr Van der Staaij, who I like more, in order to keep public finances under control at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u265	I have not yet heard the answer to our questions about the 45-plussers who are in danger of becoming unemployed, about our concern that they would not be queued up in the back of the queue to accompany work to work. Is that answer gonna come?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u266	Yes, Mr Koolmees is going to give me some notes. I'll start with that after the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u268	I shall now suspend until 2:45 p.m. Then we have a short settlement and then we proceed with the debate.
