ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u1	The next item is VAO Terrorism. I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u2	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot to say, but there's not much time, so I'll start my motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the light of the case law of the Administrative Court of the Council of State, for the withdrawal of the Netherlands' jihadists from the Netherlands, it is necessary to demonstrate that they have joined and acted on or after 11 March 2017;]] [[Considering that terrorist organisations did not become terrorist until after publication of the list of terrorist organisations and that jihadists also knew before publication of this list that they had joined a terrorist organisation;]] [[Considers that it is not in the spirit of the law to withdraw the Dutch citizenship only from jihadists who have joined a terrorist organisation on or after 11 March 2017;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber during the summer recess 2020 how it can be made possible for the Dutch jihadists to be withdrawn with retroactive effect, including as evidence of affiliation and acts before 11 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-551]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u3	That's one, Mr. Chairman. The agreement we have made here is that Syrians will not be brought back, that national security will prevail over criminal prosecution and that the Minister will not take irreversible steps until the Chamber is involved. However, we read that in the letter to the Rotterdam Court, the Minister suddenly states that trial in the Netherlands is preferable. This goes against the agreements we have made here. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the Laan-Geselschap motion of 25 June 2019, the Minister should not take irreversible steps before the Chamber is involved, if there are any intentions regarding the return of Syrians, or their wives or children;]] [[Considering that the Rotterdam Court ruled on 16 June last that the Minister preferred the return of Syrians to local trial in the region, thereby reflecting the importance of national security;]] [[noting that the court's ruling shows that the Minister made his statement of reasons on this matter by letters of 19 May and 30 May last;]] [[calls on the Government to send these letters to the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with previous commitments, not to take any further irreversible steps and to involve the Chamber in advance if there is any intention of retrieving Syrians or their wives or children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u5	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u6	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good AO, but since then of course a lot has happened again. I am very interested in the appreciation of the Minister for the motions that my colleague from the VVD has just tabled. I am also concerned about the image that has emerged that, on the one hand, we in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court are being called upon to bring people back, while, on the other hand, the Supreme Court actually agrees with the cabinet, because there is no need to do so. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to take that up tonight. We now know that a nice appointment has been made with the province of Zeeland. It is now being considered whether a proper legal delta can be set up there. Now it could just be that there's something coming from a terrorist unit. Can the Minister and his college pay particular attention to this? There have been some reports showing that placing all terrorists together in one department may have a potential danger, but that this danger may have left once again if you divide them across different establishments. I wonder if that is what is being looked at specifically. Will the expertise gained in Vught be well taken into account? I am referring above all to the image that we are very critical of the people who are in that terrorist department in Vught, but that once they are selected from there to a regular department, we treat them a little too carefully. Let us learn from that. If we are going to set up a similar department in Zeeland, let us take the advantages of Vught with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u7	Thank you. I call Mr De Graaf of the PVV. We'll wait. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For some time now, that sounds a bit strange. The AO's have been talking about terrorism and counter-terrorism very often also about the return of, with an inflammable word, "jihadbrides" or Syrian gangsters. There's the word "gangsters" in there, but that's not what I mean in this case. But of course it is not for the sake of safety that the ladies come back to the Netherlands. I have a motion on that. It is not the first motion, but I hope that it will be adopted at some point, because we are concerned with the safety of the Netherlands. That's what we've been chosen for, so it's always our priority. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Supreme Court stated that ISIS women do not need to be recalled;]] [[noting that the Supreme Court also stated that the State did not have to make any effort to do so;]] [[noting that the court in The Hague ruled that a wounded Syrian gangster should not be recalled;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to facilitate the return of jihad brides or jihad brides. Syria gangsters cease and never allow them on Dutch soil again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-553]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u9	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u10	Thank you. I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u11	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u12	Mr. Chairman. I will get the exact text of Mr De Graaf's motion in a moment, otherwise I will forget it. Let me put it in perspective before I discuss the motions. There is the ruling of the Supreme Court last Friday and there is the interim ruling a few weeks earlier from the court Rotterdam. Those two are in line with each other, including with regard to what was put forward by the State, namely that the judge recognises that there are important aspects for the State with regard to the possibilities for efforts towards the return of women who are interned in the so-called Syrian camps and who were members of ISIS. The High Council has recognised as three major interests: the fact that the State says not to send people into unsafe territory, that the State also states that it cannot do business with parties with which diplomatic relations are not maintained, and that national security is a component of the whole. Finally, the safety of those involved must also be taken into account. I am sorry to tell some of your Members of Parliament this story for the umpteenth time; for them this is a huge repetition. The reason why Mr Blok travelled to Iraq in spring 2019, after the NCTV had done so in preparation earlier in March 2018, was because of that last aspect. A large number of women who had joined ISIS would be at risk of being arrested, interned and tried on their way there by the Iraqi authorities as soon as they reported to the Dutch consulate in Erbil. We know there the problem of a judicial system with the death penalty. I say it without breathing, but that is the problem. There's just consistency in that ruling from the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has said that those interests that weigh heavily are more important than the individual interest of a woman who is interned in such a camp. Those interests were also taken into account by the Rotterdam Court in the decision of early June, where any further decision in the prosecution case was held there for six months, at least indefinitely, with a maximum of six months. So through you, Mr President, I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg that I hope I have indicated that there really is consistency in these two. It is also not the case, as Mrs Yeşilgöz did in her motion on item No. 552 suggests that the cabinet prefers the return of Syrians to local trial in the region. That's not true. In the letter to the court of Rotterdam, I have really clearly indicated that I have given your Chamber a summary paraphrase that I absolutely want to do everything that can reasonably be done, taking into account those serious interests I have just mentioned, to avoid impunity of people suspected of those horrific crimes of IS, or involvement in them. Preventing impunity: this is therefore a very clear starting point. Then I'll come to the motions. The very first motion, in part No. 551, belongs to Mrs Yeşilgöz. Let me say first of all that I understand the thought behind that motion. I understand that she says: "It is very unsatisfactory that we cannot withdraw Dutch citizenship from people who have travelled before 11 March 2017.' That is what I find painful, as Minister of Justice and Security, but it is true. But I must discourage the motion, for the following reason. That state law clearly sets a line for March 11, 2017. The moment of exit is not important. It is not possible to withdraw Dutch citizenship on the basis of facts or circumstances that took place before 11 March 2017. Nor can you change a law on that point in order to make that possible, because that would be contrary to the principles of legality and legal certainty. Those are really key principles of our rule of law. Once again, with real understanding of Mrs Yeşilgöz's point, but she knows that from other occasions here in the Chamber, I must therefore discourage this motion. At the motion in part No. 552 plays a slightly different, but the same constitutional point when it comes to the letters that are requested. These are letters written in an ongoing criminal case at the request of the judge. So they're part of the criminal case. I do not think that we can deliver those letters now, because then there is a risk that I will interfere, like your Chamber, in the criminal case. As I said, I informed your Chamber of the main lines of those letters in writing on 18 June. We have also been asked not to take any further irreversible steps. In general, I must also advise against that point of the motion. I have made it very clear here in the Chamber that I will certainly come to your Chamber first if we change the policy on this point. But it is always conceivable that, in an individual situation, something might happen that might indirectly involve something like what should be technically qualified as an irreversible step in an individual case. We should not get into that, which is why, unfortunately, I have to advise her not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u13	That second point, the point about irreversible steps, was already agreed in June 2019. There was simply a motion from my predecessor on this dossier, Mrs Laan-Selschap. That motion, which stated that irreversible steps should not be taken, was also adopted. Mr. Chairman. I find it complicated that this interim decision was taken by the court on 16 June and that two days later we were informed by the Minister. We will be informed about these guidelines later. Of course, I would have liked to have them earlier, especially since we had agreed to do so. That is my first point of criticism. It does not say that the cabinet is relativizing the importance of state security, but that is what the court concludes from the Minister's letters. The letter of 18 June does not contain any short-term initiatives, or what the Minister is now doing to bring those people back or not. This makes it very complicated for me as a Member of Parliament to do my job. We have made agreements that state that they will not be retrieved and that we will be informed first. We would also be involved if steps were taken. But now everything comes afterwards and I can only say 'of which I am aware'. But that's not the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u14	I should not go into the possible semantic or constitutional point of "agreement." I have just explained why I dissuade the motion and I do not really have anything to add at the moment. The issue is not that I do not want to inform, and that is what has happened in general. In the letter you will also see, and I would like to confirm this here, that there is really no change in policy. I cannot do much about the fact that I think some media was just one suggesting or saying, but there is no change in policy. And for the rest, I really refer back to my earlier reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u15	Mrs Yeşilgöz, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u16	If we in the Lower House have passed a law stating that national security prevails over criminal prosecution and I then read in the order of the court that the minister wrote to the court that the importance of state security is being related, then I did not read it in the newspaper. Then it has been reported there and then it is a change of policy. Not only would I have been informed in advance, I would have wanted to be involved, so that I could have told the Minister that I am not waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u17	The letter from my predecessor, Mr Blok, as Minister for Security and Justice, to the First Chamber, I went through the letter again this morning and said that there was a weighting. The letter does not say that national security must weigh more heavily. Well, maybe that's a lot of words. That letter was written at the time in the context of discussions in the First Chamber and after that letter at least a majority of the relevant bill was withdrawn from the Netherlands. But again, I can... I'll just say it out loud. You have heard me repeat this policy of the cabinet from about the beginning of November 2017. That policy is that the impunity of the people who have served in these war crimes should not be allowed. But there are three clear and very important interests. I'd like to call them obstructions, too. They are: do not enter an unsafe area, etcetera and so on. I'm not gonna repeat them now, because then I'm gonna keep repeating myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u18	Mrs Yeşilgöz, do you have anything new to add? I'm in a lot of hurry tonight. Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u19	With all due respect, Mr. Chairman, I understand. I'm not talking about letters or newspaper articles, I'm talking about the law we've established here with each other. It says that national security prevails. Mr President, I will conclude. I'm not curious about what the Minister is saying, I'm curious about what he's doing. And I'm not gonna be informed about that in time, and that's what this motion is about. I hope that she will be judged by the Chamber and that I will also receive the support of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u20	I've got the impression it's gonna stay with "dissuade." Then the motion to part No. 553.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u21	The motion in part No. 553 by Mr De Graaf, I advise against. Then I think I've treated everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-69.u22	Thank you.
