ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Plant Health Act, Section 35083. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I give the floor to Mr Weverling as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm fascinated by plants and you, too, I hope. As a former alderman of the horticulture municipality of Westland and spokesperson of horticulture for the VVD, I am of course regularly in a greenhouse. In my discussions with growers, protecting plant health is a recurring theme. From tree growers and farmers to fruit and vegetable growers, they all benefit from combating the spread of plant diseases. For example, a trace of the tomato virus in a tomato grower's greenhouse can be enough to make the whole harvest unsellable, and that is why it is in principle right that the European Commission should now take the lead to protect plant health. At the same time, protecting plant health also requires a lot of our growers. In taking preventive measures and meeting the requirements of the plant passport, for example, there is a lot of time and money. Fortunately, I saw that the use of the plant passport landed well, but that did not happen automatically. It shows that we need to strike a balance between ensuring plant health and preventing unnecessary regulatory pressure. The Plant Health Act now before us brings our own legislation into line with the agreements we have made at European level. As far as the VVD is concerned, we leave it at that. We are not supposed to impose even stricter rules on our entrepreneurs on top of European rules. Otherwise, this distorts the level playing field in Europe and, moreover, rules must be respected. An example of additional national legislation in addition to European agreements is Article 20a of the Plant Protection Products Act. This Article proposes to prohibit the supply of these resources to growers who do not directly need it for their cultivation. It is important to reduce unnecessary use of plant protection products, but suppliers indicate that they do not have the necessary information at all to know which growers need what resources for their cultivation. Moreover, they also supply workers who do not grow plants themselves but use protective equipment. Article 20a is therefore an additional national obligation which is impossible to maintain or comply with. In order to ensure that the level playing field in Europe is not distorted by additional national regulations, I support the proposed amendment tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr von Martels to delete this article. I also propose an amendment to delete the new Article 84a of the Plant Protection Products Act. This Article obliges the fee after re-inspection, an obligation which does not result from the Regulation and therefore does not necessarily apply to producers in other countries. As far as we are concerned, such additional headlines on European regulation are only creating unnecessary regulatory pressure. Producers are crucial to the implementation of this law. The best way to prevent the spread of plant diseases is to share information and report outbreaks. The establishment of the Plant Decision laying down additional rules on the implementation of this law should therefore be carried out in consultation with the growers. The question is whether the dialogue between the sector and the Ministry is as flexible in all cases. Can the Minister promise that the sector will be well involved in the implementation of the Plant Health Act and that the adoption of the Plant Health Decision will take place in consultation with the sector? In order to ensure that we as a Chamber are kept informed about the implementation of this law, I have tabled an amendment which obliges the submission of implementing measures. For example, the Court can check that the implementation of the law is not unnecessarily burdensome for growers. Rapid action is necessary in the event of the outbreak of a plant disease. The NVWA will soon be given a central role in the enforcement of that Plant Health Act and the NVWA should therefore be enabled to act as soon as possible if the rules are not complied with. Can the Minister confirm that the budget and additional staff reserved for the implementation and enforcement of this law is sufficient to carry out this important task? I'm rounding up. As the Netherlands, we have a leading position when it comes to agricultural entrepreneurship. This is due to the hard work of our growers and farmers. To keep it that way, plant health protection is crucial. That is why we have made agreements at European level, and we must not deviate from them as far as the VVD is concerned. That is the best thing for plant health and that is also the best thing for our agricultural entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. I now give the floor to Mr von Martels on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Plant Diseases Act has lasted 69 years, but is now finally in need of revision and needs to be revised and renewed. From now on, the Plant Health Act will matter. The emphasis will be on prevention, so as to reduce the need for action later on with plant protection products or costly controls. As far as the CDA is concerned, that's a good choice. Mr. Chairman. However, we do believe that, if outbreaks of pests or diseases occur, the enormous cost of destroying plants, safeguarding greenhouses and inability to produce should not be borne by individual entrepreneurs. In this context, it is good to see that the most recent version of this proposal has been accompanied by an article which states that the Minister is competent to grant compensation to economic operators for the damage suffered in the case of measures which are disproportionate to one or more persons. However, the CDA wonders what the criteria will be for this. When does the Minister consider that there are plant health measures that have a disproportionate impact on one or more persons? And what, according to the Minister, is the maximum amount of compensation that can be granted to entrepreneurs in these cases? Mr. Chairman. The CDA has already advocated the development of a similar approach to the Animal Health Fund for plant health. A common approach could also help to cover the enormous risks of an outbreak of a disease or plague. In this way, the major consequences of a serious, potentially disruptive crisis on a particular crop can be avoided. In the meantime, we have learned that LNV has indeed talked to the sector about a plant health fund. However, because of European rules such a fund does not seem to be possible. Can the Minister confirm that? And what is the main cause of this? The alternative could be to explore the possibilities of some kind of insurance. If this is to be a success, it cannot be achieved without a form of public contribution. For the sector, it is important that there really is a level playing field in Europe. Have all the other Member States incorporated European legislation into their national laws? Additional tasks flow from the Plant Health Act. The Minister has already stated in a letter of formal notice that this will lead to an additional supervisory capacity at NVWA of perhaps a few FTEs. Is it already clear in which direction this is going to go and what consequences this is going to have? Mr. Chairman. The CDA is deeply concerned about the practical consequences of Article 20a. Mr Weverling of the VVD also spoke about it. We are in agreement with the overarching aim of the proposed ban, namely to prevent illegal use. In our view, however, the proposed ban is disproportionate. A supplier can never determine with certainty whether the grower who places an order with him actually grows the crop for which the product in question may be used. It is unthinkable for the CDA that the supplier can commit a crime by violating this prohibition, without being able to obtain any certainty about it. The proposed ban on the holding of plant protection products which are not intended and authorised for crops grown at that time also leads to an unworkable situation, with additional environmental burden and increasing regulatory pressure. It's a typical example of putting the horse behind the cart. Therefore, the SGP and the CDA are tabling an amendment to delete Article 20a from the legislative proposal. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Von Martels. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with the good news: we can support a large part of the proposal before us as a result of the Plant Health Regulation. But there's one big bone in the throat. You have already guessed: that is the point with which Mr von Martels ended, Article 20a. Mr Weverling also spoke about this. That is a banana peel for farmers and their suppliers. But first three points about the plant health part. Sayings of diseases and pests can have a major impact on the affected sectors and businesses: plants must be destroyed or crops must be stopped. At official level, there has been consultation with the European Commission as to whether there is room for a plant health fund, Mr von Martels also spoke about a plant health fund. The Commission had promised further investigation. The specific question to the Minister is: is it now clear? The Minister would explore with the sector the possibilities for such a fund with a legal basis. The specific question is: what is the state of play? Then the point of disadvantage compensation. The current provision on loss compensation will lapse if the general scheme for loss compensation will enter into force under the General Administrative Law Act. The Minister does not expect any difference in the application of disadvantage compensation between the current provision and the new scheme. A number of conditions are laid down in the general scheme. This means, for example: no compensation if a grower could have prevented or reduced damage in any way. That makes sense, but my question is specific: do these conditions apply now, or will there be a reduction in the compensation for losses? Has it been taken over one-on-one or is it being tightened a little bit further? Then there is the powers of the inspection services. They have indicated that they would also like to be the competent authority for plant health import matters. Then it is also clear in the direction of abroad who is responsible for this. Is the Minister going to take care of this? Then the bone in the throat: Article 20a. We have great difficulty with that. A ban on the availability or supply of authorised plant protection products for crops other than their own will in practice create a great deal of uncertainty and undesirable situations for both growers and suppliers. There are many growers who carry out spraying for other growers. Then it's also about crops they don't have themselves. In practice, it is difficult for every grower than himself to purchase funds with corresponding regulations. I call the many hobby farmers. You just don't want to. Cultivation plants can also change unexpectedly; think of the growing of pot plants. Or growers have arrived packages that they would like to use again for a cultivation in two or three years. That seems to me to be a fairly normal part of the business. Do they have to dump it or do they have to dispose of it through the little chemical waste or something? For suppliers, that is quite difficult. There is the idea of using an information system, but that has not yet worked out. I have not yet seen the promised agreements with the stakeholders, to which the Minister refers in the note on the report. It is also undesirable for producers to have to share their competitively sensitive cultivation plans with suppliers. Mr. Chairman. I have a very bad feeling about this. Already the farmers see the NVWA inspectors coming up with suspicion. There are a lot of rules and regulations. When you're on a job visit, every time you ask what people run into the most, you touch the same point. Those rules may be self-explanatory to everyone, as separate rules, but there are so many. The farmers have to keep it on their own. So there is always an administrative error or something else to be found, with the threat of all kinds of fines and sanctions in the background. Mr. Chairman. The present bans create new uncertainties and make it even more difficult for farmers. And then the burden of proof lies with them. This isn't a banana peel, this is a box of banana peels scattered over the farmyard. That's enough. That is why, together with Mr von Martels, I tabled an amendment to delete Article 20. Finally, Mr President. The Minister took the opportunity to introduce a technical amendment to the Fertilisers Act. That's very convenient. The question is: will it also take this opportunity to establish that phosphate rights data will not be disclosed if the financial benefit remains below €500,000, in line with the European exception? This seems to me to be the right time to do so, a wonderful gesture towards the farmers-entrepreneurs. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I see the Minister can respond immediately. Yeah? In the meantime, if additional information is needed, it will be taken to the Minister. Shall we do it like this? The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a legislative proposal which we may not be spending so much time on, but which is all the more important in practice. It is true what Mr Weverling said, and others also: this bill is certainly important for the plant health and the importance of the horticultural sector, an important player in the Dutch agriculture and horticulture sector. If you don't have healthy crops, it can have a big impact. Unfortunately, we have seen another example of this recently. Mr. Chairman. It is important not only for the economic position of agriculture and horticulture, but also for biodiversity and ecosystems. If there are harmful organisms, they can seriously affect the crops. The risk of that kind of crop being affected is increasing, because of trade globalisation, but also because of climate change, for example. This type of thing will allow harmful organisms to survive longer on the territory of the EU and thus cause more damage to crops. If that happens, it's terrible. Crops need to be destroyed, plant protection products need to be used even more, there are high control costs, there are economic losses and there may also be export restrictions to third countries. So there is quite a vulnerability latent. On the world stage, the Netherlands is a major player in the trade and production of plant products. That is all the more reason to organise things properly here. A robust plant health system is crucial for the Netherlands. The European Commission evaluated plant health legislation in 2011. This evaluation led to the conclusion that the system should be modernised. For example, more attention had to be paid to the risk-based approach, to a Community approach to risks and to better import prevention. That is why the Plant Health Regulation has now been drawn up. The aim of the Regulation is to minimise the risk of introduction of harmful organisms. The Plant Health Regulation also indicates how to act in the event of outbreaks of plant diseases. The new Plant Health Regulation will also make plant health legislation future-proof. This Regulation applies directly to all Member States, businesses and citizens of the European Union. The Regulation entered into force on 14 December 2019. Both the Plant Health Regulation and the Control Regulation have not yet been worked out in detail. Implementing acts have yet to be drawn up. In those implementing acts, the European Commission shall lay down detailed rules for the elaboration of the Regulations. Examples include the classification of EU organisms and the requirements for the plant passport. With all this there is far-reaching European harmonisation, which leaves little room for national interpretation. The bill we are discussing here today is intended to implement the new Plant Health Regulation, which will lead to a complete revision and renewal of the Plant Health Act of 1951. Therefore, the legislative proposal also contains a number of legislative changes, which are necessary under the 2017 European Control Regulation. I would like to emphasise that the legislative proposal only includes those provisions necessary for the implementation of the EU regulations. I am working towards what we call 'last-low and workable solutions for business', by seeking the widest possible connection with the existing instruments. I am also working closely with the industry concerned in terms of design and development, for example by regulating the new requirements for plant passports and the development of tertiary import regulations. All in all, I believe that this legislative proposal contains good tools for dealing with the well-known and unknown phytosanitary challenges in the coming decades. This amendment also amends the Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products Act, which also implements the Control Regulation 2017 in that Act. This will also strengthen the monitoring of the field of plant protection products. Mr. Chairman. The three members who have registered have also asked a number of questions. I shall now deal with it by group. Firstly, the Member Weverling. He asks if I want to continue to involve the sector in the implementation of the Plant Health Act and the development of the plant decision. Yes, I will. The sector is involved in the elaboration of the decision and the arrangements of the Plant Health Act. Several information meetings were also held last year with the sector, organized by NVWA, inspection services and my ministry. The sector was informed and was also able to discuss the rules. We have of course also had an internet consultation of the law and we will also involve the sector during the further implementation process. Information meetings will also be held so that everyone is well aware of the issues involved. Mr Weverling also asked whether there were sufficient supervisory capacity and FTEs at NVWA. Can I confirm that there is sufficient staff available to carry out these tasks? It is true that the tasks of the NVWA will be extended structurally to include additional work, which will therefore result directly from the new European rules. For example, additional import inspections and supervision of passenger baggage are part of these new tasks. It is estimated that for this new work about 38 FTE formation is necessary at NVWA. Of those 38 there are about 6 to 7 retributable, another word for direct assign to the activity. The 38 fte are currently recruited by the NVWA. Then Mr von Martels asks what are the criteria that we are going to apply when there is damage and amounts are going to be paid out. When are plant health measures actually being applied which are disproportionately heavy on one person or more people? The current Plant Diseases Act already includes an article which gives me the power to compensate for the damage caused by plant health control measures in exceptional situations. That article is just one-on-one in the present bill. Over the years, the necessary case law has also been built on this article. That case-law also gives us guidance on whether or not a concession is granted. Of course, this is a case-by-case assessment, and we will also look at what has been established in the past. If a plant disease was not foreseeable at all and has a disproportionate impact on a company, it may be a reason to provide a concession, but once again: these are often almost tailor-made decisions, also based on statements made earlier on this type of situation. Mr Von Martels asked what would be a maximum concession in the cases of those entrepreneurs. Again, the possible applications and the level of a concession are customized. You look at this on a case-by-case basis, also on the basis of what has been built up in recent years. In doing so, I will also have to take into account European regulations on financial compensation in the fight against harmful organisms and State aid. That's not unlimited. Then I really have to look carefully at the rules that apply in this area to provide for a concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u9	I just got word from the minister that it's custom-made. I fully agree with that, but it would be useful if certain criteria were to be applied to determine when such a situation exists or not. Would it not therefore be wise to consider whether we might be able to set out criteria in which cases such measures could actually be in force?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u10	I get the feeling of some kind of direction or certainty when you set criteria. The difficulty in drawing up criteria in such cases is precisely that situations are often excluded. In fact, I also limit possibilities. I would like to give that consideration to Mr von Martels. Especially in this type of situation, in the case of plant diseases which are recurring, there are now unforeseen risks that can occur in the future. If I start laying down criteria now, that could be a restriction. On the one hand, therefore, I understand Mr von Martels' call for clarity. I would also like to tell him that, on the other hand, this can also mean a reduction in the possibilities for compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u11	I understand the Minister's answer to Mr von Martels' question. Still, it is a bit of a black box for many parties. Of course it's customization. That's okay in itself. At the same time, it is said that we do not want to set a precedent when a question is asked from the sector if something has gone wrong. I understand Mr von Martels' question about criteria. I see you understand that, too. Can you say something useful about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u12	It is not that we do not know anything at all, because there is, of course, case law. Unfortunately, there have been situations in the past, I would add, in which it has come to a compensation. This is, of course, already a framework in itself that you can also use in cases where there are cases. Here too, I would like to say that the mirror image is that when I set criteria, it really is the criteria within which it must take place. I will, of course, also look at what has been laid down in case law. In that sense, that does not add much. In fact, I would rule out the fact that very new circumstances would be eligible for this. So there are two sides to this story. I come to the question about the Plant Health Fund. Indeed, I have been discussing this with the Chamber for a long time. I have indicated that I want to see what the possibilities and opportunities are. I first examined what scope the European and national laws and regulations provide for the realisation of a risk cover. I have also had discussions on this with the European Commission. It showed that a plant health fund is not possible by means of a general declaration, an avv, on the basis of the CMO. The Commission indicated to me that the list of possible objectives of an avv is a restrictive list and that a plant health fund is not included in that list. What is possible is a fund based on the regulation. For example, we have already done this on the basis of animal health. The Animal Health Fund is covered by that Regulation. A system of this kind has been put in place. I invited the sector to come up with a concrete plan for the implementation of such a plant health fund. I think that is important, because if you are going to do something like that, then ultimately it also means that everyone has to make a contribution to it. Then there's got to be support. If so, I will look with the sector at the possibilities of setting up such a fund with a legal basis. But I would like to do it in that order, because I think that the behavior of such a plan is important. What is the state of implementation of these regulations in other Member States? The two new European regulations, the Plant Health Regulation and the Control Regulation, as I said, are directly applicable in all Member States as of 14 December last year. Those regulations do not therefore need to be taken into account in national legislation. They exist and are now in force. They are directly applicable everywhere. I did take a look at what other Member States are doing. However, I have the impression from the contacts that we are working hard to translate this regulation into national legislation. So I also have the impression that there is speed on that. Based on that, there would be a level playing field. Then there is the question of supervisory capacity. I have just said in reply to Mr Weverling's questions that we are now in the process of recruiting to NVWA. It's running. Then there are Mr Bishop's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u13	You'd be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u14	Yes, I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. Is there any conclusion on research into the EU's potential for a plant health fund? I have already said a few things about this in reply to questions put by Mr von Martels. So I'm also waiting for plans from the sector. Then I come to the possibilities of providing the plant health fund with a legal basis. I understand that there are consultations within the sector. That has not yet resulted in that concrete plan. Depending on their speed, I can see how quickly I can see with them how I can shape that. That also determines the speed with which we proceed. Mr Bishop also mentioned compensation if a grower could have prevented or reduced damage in any way. Do these conditions apply now, or will there be a reduction in the loss compensation? So we're gonna sit closer? Nothing changes with regard to the disadvantage compensation. The current approach remains valid and an application for compensation is considered on a case-by-case basis. Then there is the point of designating the authority for import inspections. I am prepared to designate the inspection services as the competent authority for the import tasks which they have already carried out and which may be carried out by mandate. This is in line with the substance of the import duties for which they have already been designated as competent authorities in the transitional temporary arrangements. So for the import duties, I can point them out. Finally, Mr Bishop's question following the letter of amendment I sent to the Fertilisers Act. That is literally the points and the commas. There are no substantive changes to that. The question was also whether I would like to take the opportunity to delete the provision on disclosure of phosphate rights. Questions have been asked to me about the disclosure of these aspects. I'm in the middle of answering those questions. You'll get those answers as soon as possible. I also agree that disclosure will be postponed until your Chamber has been informed and has been able to discuss this with me. According to my agenda, but I am not going to go all the way over it, there is an AO Mest on February 19th. For the bill we are discussing today, the subject has no consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u15	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u16	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u17	Then there is a question from Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u18	Subject to the fact that we still expect the Minister to reflect on our amendment. But that aside. I understand the Minister's line, but she also knows how much unrest has been caused by the unclear communication, to put it mildly. The specific question to the Minister is whether going back to EU standards is also part of the considerations. This means that anything that remains below the threshold of €500,000 in benefits does not have to be made public. Is that an option the Minister is seriously considering?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u19	I'm interested in the unclear communication. That's what I'm saying. It is precisely in order to prevent us from again raising all kinds of doubts or questions that I really want to do so very carefully. The same applies to the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u20	I appreciate that in the Minister, absolutely. My question is very open. Does the package include trade-offs and choices that need to be taken into account as well as the possibility of limiting them to what is required in the EU and not setting them up again in the Netherlands? Is that a serious consideration in the Minister's deliberations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u21	I don't want to fall back on my answers. This is one of the questions that has been asked to me. We need to be very strict about what the arrangement is and what the options are. I really want to take a very careful look at that before I make a commitment here or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u22	The amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u23	The amendment in part No. 13 has been withdrawn and replaced by the amendment to item No. 18, I understand. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u24	Amendment 12 has become Amendment 18. Amendment No 15 is now No. 19 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u25	It's a jigsaw puzzle, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u26	That is always the case with amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u27	I have Amendments Nos 15, 16 and 18, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u28	Amendment No 15 is indeed No. 19 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u29	Maybe I can shed some light on this case? My amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u30	The von Martels amendment (Doc. 13) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u31	I put my name under the SGP amendment. I hope that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u32	If the Minister says which amendment it is, I'll say the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u33	I have Mr Weverling's amendment on the expiry of Article 84 Wgb, the fees for re-inspection. That's my no. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u34	That's no. 19 years old. Then you can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u35	I would advise against this amendment. It is contrary to the Control Regulation 2017. Article 79 of the Control Regulation 2017 lays down the obligation for the competent authority to collect fees or charges for certain aspects. One of these aspects concerns the unofficial controls initially not planned for non-compliance. That obligation applies to all areas covered by the Control Regulation, such as animal health, animal welfare, plant health and plant protection. It is not the case that the legislative proposal goes beyond the regulation as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment. There is no question of a national headline. It is also common practice in the Netherlands to include fees or charges in national regulations. For this reason, this part of the regulation is also included in the legislative proposal. I explained this in the explanatory statement. I would advise against this amendment. Then I come to Mr Weverling's amendment on the procedure for hanging. That's my no. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u36	In the meantime, that's no. 20 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u37	Okay. That amendment I can give the House's opinion if I may make a suggestion for amendment on one point. That's a crucial part, so let me explain. The various AMvBs under the laws mentioned in the bill are already subject to a pending procedure based on a provision in the Framework Act Zbo. The proposed suspension of the AMvB and the rules on fees for re-inspections of the Plant Protection Act is new. There are no objections to this. On that aspect I can give judgment Chamber. In the case of the Plant Health Act, the amendment provides for all the regulations to be applied. I would like to make a comment on that. For example, when a harmful virus is found, action must be taken very quickly to establish appropriate technical provisions and to prevent further spread and damage to entrepreneurs. Of course, I always do so, and I will keep the Chamber informed of developments on that point. If the author would like to amend the amendment in such a way that it only sees the general measures of governance under the Plant Health Act, and therefore not the ministerial regulations, so that I can act quickly in the event of illness, then I can give this amendment a ruling Chamber. If the petitioner is prepared to do so, I would therefore give the Chamber's ruling. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to advise against it at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u38	Okay. I'll take a look at the proposers, or one of the proposers. Mr Weverling, what is your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u39	I think I agree with this change, so I am amending the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u40	Okay. Please continue with the last amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u41	That is the amendment to item No. 18, that's about Article 20a. I would advise against this amendment. In the event of inspections, NVWA finds that plant protection products are used which are not authorised for cultivation. Depending on the crop and the year, about 10% to 20% of the inspections are carried out. That is quite a considerable part, and that is also the reason for this article. Of course it must be workable in practice. The NVWA will be based on current cultivation plans and a system is also being developed to provide insight into information. In the initial period, the NVWA also actively focuses on communication and information on this point. Of course, it is not the intention of the growers to dispose of resources, as Mr Bishop says. For this purpose, collection actions are also regularly organised at local and regional level. It's already happening. The ban should, however, contribute to a conscious choice of the resources they purchase and in what quantity. I don't think it's a bad idea to think this through. If everyone is working on these rules in this way, that also means a level playing field for everyone. On the basis of these arguments, I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr Bishop, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u43	I'm trying to narrow it down, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer, but it does not remove the uncertainties. The agreements with the sector are not yet in place and the information system is not yet in place. One then depends on the goodwill of the NVWA. It may be large in the beginning, but as long as the infrastructure alone is not in order, it cannot be introduced without creating enormous uncertainty among those concerned. In this sense, I do not think the answer is satisfactory and we are maintaining our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u44	I would, however, like to refute a few points that I heard in Mr Bishop's explanatory statement, for example that it would relate to hobby farmers. That's not the case, it's really about professional users. There was also an example from the practice in which an agricultural entrepreneur carries out sprays for his neighbor who grows other crops. Then the neighbor can buy the supplies himself and then get his neighbor to do the spraying. In itself, these are matters that can simply be arranged. I hear Mr Bishop has his own thoughts on this, but I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u45	You are free to put the amendment to the vote, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u46	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This is true on the desk up to three digits behind the decimal point, but in practice it doesn't work for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u47	There! Thank you. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to Mr Weverling. I thought it was a bill that everyone agreed on. At least that's what I was told.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u48	Yeah, that's true. I think we can conclude that we all have a fascination for plants. Well, then I guess that's a nice final word. I believe that the law will be passed by a large majority. It is good that the information meetings with the sector are continued. That's very important. Thank you for the Minister's commitment to this. It is important to realise that 38 FTEs are needed to implement this law properly. That's a big deal. That is why it is a pity that we are only here today with three spokesmen, because the law has quite a lot of impact. I intended to table a motion, but I think I have heard very well that I have been given a commitment from the Minister that she will make an effort to better involve the agricultural and horticultural sector in the implementation of the plan and all other implementing acts resulting from the Plan Health Act and that she will engage with the representatives of this sector. If she can confirm that in a moment, we are all satisfied. The second amendment I have tabled, the one on item No. 20, we will amend something. The first amendment, the amendment to item No. 19, it's been dissuaded. I'm gonna have to sleep on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u49	Fine. A commitment is also very important. This means that there will be no automatic motion. That's the way it's gonna be! I'm proud you're doing this. Thank you, Mr. Weverling. Mr von Martels, on behalf of the CDA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You thought you could get this bill through quickly. The fact that this is not happening is really not due to the fact that the bill would not be good. On the contrary, it's a good bill. However, we have difficulty with Article 20a. It is a pity that the Minister does not recognise that the regulatory burden is being increased by the introduction of such an article, because the Minister is in favour of a cumbersome approach, as we have just heard. However, the deletion of Article 28a will also benefit the environment, because I am sure that plant protection products will be handled more efficiently on farms. So I hope that the House will eventually support the amendment so that it can get through. It will be quite a tour for the NVWA to recruit those 38 FTEs. I really hope that this will succeed in the foreseeable future, because it is necessary. Finally, I would like to express the expectation that the Plant Health Fund will soon be back on the table again in order to look at the possibilities of shaping this in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you, Mr. Von Martels. Finally, Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr President, I will not disappoint you. The contributions of colleagues are clear, clear and clear. I missed a little the heartfelt and heartfelt words of thanks towards the Minister for answering the questions. That is why I felt I should take on that duty. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u53	That's very kind of you, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u54	On their behalf, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u55	Yes, also on behalf of the colleagues. Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. We're all so nice today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yes. I hope that we will be able to do so by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u58	Yeah, sure. But it's a good start. Mr Weverling called for attention to be paid to involving the sector. Of course we will involve the sector. I'd like to make that commitment. Mr Von Martels expressed the hope that the Plant Health Fund would soon return to the table. If there is a concrete and supported proposal from the sector, I am prepared to discuss it with the sector. That is what I have asked and promised to the sector. I say to Mr Bishop: thank you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u59	In turn, I would like to thank the Minister and Members of Parliament. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-6.u60	The amendments tabled and the proposal will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
