ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Van den Bosch and Van der Molen amending the Municipal Act, the Province Act and the Public Authorities Act Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba in connection with the expiry of the compulsory presidency by council members, statesmen and island council members of Council, States Council and Island Council committees (35397). I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in Box K by Mrs Désirée de Groot, policy officer at the VVD Group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today, we're dealing with the whole law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u2	I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Raak, who will speak on behalf of the SP Group. He's reserved five minutes for that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. It shouldn't be any crazier. It shouldn't get weirder. I brought it. In 2014, 3 June 2014, the House of Representatives adopted a proposal from me, an amendment to the Municipal Act. There was support from the entire Chamber, from the VVD, from the CDA, and I know who. Well, that doesn't happen every day, Mr. Chairman. And now Mr. Van den Bosch of the VVD and Mr. Van der Molen of the CDA have made a law, an initiative law, a whole law to undo that proposal of mine. It shouldn't get weirder. And then they say, "Yes, it's moving insight." I certainly don't like that. I think one time insight is more than enough. Then you think, "It can't get weirder." But it still gets weirder. Because one of the reasons for this proposal is that it would result from the dualisation of the provincial and municipal administration. The dualization. And then I look at Mr Van der Molen. He also knows that a year ago, almost a year ago, I tabled a motion together with Mr Van der Molen on 31 October last year, because Mr Van der Molen and we felt that dualisation was not a success and did not bring society and governance closer together. Then we hung out here in the room together and now he's just sitting there cheating on me in "K." The motion called for an evaluation of dualisation. I see the Minister sitting there, too. The motion is well adopted. It also said that we would be informed before 1 March 2020. Let me take a look at Mr Van der Molen. Have we heard from that? Well, maybe the Minister can go into it, because I missed it. I am very curious to hear the answers from the proposers. I have to thank them, too. That's the way it's supposed to be. Well, I guess I'll do it with some reluctance. Thank you for your work, thank you for your work. I am also very curious about the answers, but I can announce that I am going to vote against them anyway. Now perhaps the President asks: what is it really about? What exactly is the law about? We hadn't talked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u4	I'm not asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u5	It's about presidents. Not about this chairman, but about the chairmen of committees in the province and the municipality. President of a parliament, a council, a committee or states: that is fantastic. Because these parliaments are independent. They don't have a boss and therefore they always choose a chairman from among themselves, as primus inter pairs, first among the equals. That is a wonderful democratic principle. And that's what the proposers want to undo now. They want Presidents to come from outside, who then have to sit in front of them so-called technically. Well, I don't know if the chairman needs any input, but technical chairman of a parliament or of states, councils or committees: I've never seen that before. That's very political. And it should be. And what do we get? Then we're going to have some sort of moving circus of people's presidents, who are going to pick up a bit of a schnack everywhere. That was precisely why in 2014 the VVD, the CDA and all those parties opposed it. So I am also curious about the input of those spokesmen, because why do they suddenly think that parliaments should be chaired by externals, by consultants, by professional representatives and I do not know what? And why do they not think that a parliament should simply be an independent and democratic parliament, where a president is elected as a primus interpares by the members themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr Van Raak calls it a travelling circus. That is how Mr Van Raak puts it away. It would even be a job carousel. But does Mr Van Raak not have confidence in the representatives of the people who sit on these councils and stand up for the interests of the inhabitants of that city? Does he really think that they are not able to put the right people there, so that it is not a travelling circus, but rather an addition to and an improvement in that democracy? After all, these council members can really get to work with the council work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u7	I have that confidence. Or I did. When it comes to the CDA and the VVD, I had until 2014. What's happened since then, I don't know exactly. Look at the VVD, I get it a little bit. That is a consultant party and they always find it useful to put away some consultant jobs somewhere. But I don't understand Harry van der Molen from the CDA. In his case, I find it really, really weird. Those decentralisations were a so-called professionalisation of local government and that has led to real people's representatives being genuine people's representatives! To study deep into the night large piles of paper. They've become popular officials! And what VVD and CDA want now is that there are now also some kind of folk consultants who sit in front of all those people who sit in those halls deep in the evening with cups of coffee and large packs of paper. And that external chairman could be politically neutral and technical. I think it is so far removed from popular representation that... Maybe you should feel that a little bit. Maybe that's a little bit too. It doesn't fit me at all and until 2014 it didn't fit the VVD either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you. You had come to the end of your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u9	Yes, but Mr. Terpstra still wants it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u10	I am interested in the passionate story of Mr Van Raak. Mr Van Raak belongs to a party, the Socialist Party, which I know from many municipal councils. It's a party of people who go up the barricades and stand for those workers. They think it is important that their own representatives have the time to take action and to engage with all these people. Isn't that actually what makes this bill possible? You have a wonderful speech, but you focus mainly on the consultants. I understand that, but isn't that what Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van den Bosch are proposing, namely to give these representatives more time so that they can do what your party really wants, namely to speak to the people, the core task of the parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u11	No. This leads to technical chairing and further meetings. As a result, we get more paper and meetings that go on with even more cups of coffee to even deeper into the night. And that's not a public representative. A representative of the people, who's gonna go into the neighborhood, who's gonna mobilize people, who's gonna take action, and who's gonna see what's going on in the community. Then he tries to put that in the city council. Since the dualisation of 2002, which I and Harry van der Molen are very critical of, this has become increasingly difficult. The representatives of the people who could really represent the people and actually do things in the city council have become some kind of civil servants. Again, it has become people who are going to check the papers and plans of the colleague. Then there is regionalisation and the security regions. As a result, the paper accumulates and these people have less and less to tell. And then they get an external chairman, some consultant who knows better. No, this is all the wrong way! You should talk to Mr Van der Molen. Last year we tabled a motion that does not go well at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u12	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u13	Ah, I see another one! Cozy. We've got till 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u14	No one was on the schedule after us, I think. And we need to meet longer from Mr Van Raak, so let's give it a try.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u15	Yeah, but with cups of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u16	No, I have to leave at 8:00, because I have to combine my job as a representative of the people with this. We still have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u17	You're doing something wrong! I wonder what Mr Van Raak is saying to the SP council members in those shattered municipal councils with nine members. That is, I think, one of the developments that has continued since 2014. Those Members should simply chair those committees, when they do not really want to carry out that framework or control function or read all those papers. They do want to go into that neighborhood, so they do need it. What does he say to those council members to reduce the overload they feel?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u18	If the SP, if the CDA and also D66 find that we are on the wrong road, if we see that the dualisation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then we must also ensure that those council members are released, that those papers go into the trash can, that they are not completely flooded with papers from the college, from the security region, from all the regions that exist. But that they can simply do their job as a people's representative and have influence, and not always hear about it: that's not your concern, that's what the college is about. Or: that's what the security region is about or some other region. That helps! Council members who are not built-in between the papers, but simply have the space to do their job as representatives of the people and who also have something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u19	So to those council members who are now struggling with acute problems, you say, wait for my structural change at national level. That's the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u20	I say to that: throw those papers through the window, take action and pull those aldermen to their ears. That's what I tell my people. Go do your job and don't let those consultants drive you crazy, and certainly not later by an external chairman who's gonna tell you how to complete your council work. We need to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you. I call Mr Snoeren of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was actually assuming I'd make my maiden speech here. I told you that later, but that was suddenly changed by the change in the agenda, so I've already had the opportunity to do it. Mr. Terpstra's gonna be all right. I wish him luck in advance. But I'm going to use a few parts of my maiden speech for this debate. I would, of course, like to begin by thanking Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van den Bosch for the great amount of work they have done. I will certainly make a different noise than you have just heard from Mr Van Raak. I have been a council member for ten years, which was also mentioned in my maiden speech, and I have indeed seen a lot of changes in those ten years. In the beginning, when I was just a councilman in 2010, I was about ten to twelve hours busy with my council work. In the meantime, I think that has grown to 14 to 15 hours. Furthermore, I also see that there has been a very large shift, and Mr Van Raak may have a point: we see that we are often in those meeting rooms and less outside. But it has to happen outside. We'll talk to the people outside. We hear what's going on on the street, along the line, near the kids or at work. There you hear and you see what's going on in the neighborhood one there you can also really get started as a councilman. It is a pity that this shift has taken place. I also note that in those ten years there has also been a far-reaching fragmentation and that there are more and more one-man groups. That can be done, within our democracy, but the question is whether it benefits from being able to work effectively as a council member. Mr. Chairman. You can see that small groups have far more difficulty in adding additional tasks than large groups. That's simply because they get the same amount of pieces, but have fewer people to treat them. I was also allowed to chair a council committee, Mr Van Raak............................................................................................................................................................................ Those hours of work you can't stop at work to be out on the street, to listen to the people. That is why I believe that this proposal is indeed an outcome for many council members. It's just too bad we're losing the connection to society because we're inside more often. My group therefore wholeheartedly supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u23	Oh, excuse me, I didn't see Mr. Van Raak standing there. That's what you get. I was just serving my supporters. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u24	If we agree that too many meetings are being held, then I think we can get a President from outside. I think we will have no fewer meetings or we can meet less. We'll get fewer meetings. Isn't that the direction of a solution anymore: that if you meet too much, you have to meet less?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u25	A council is often responsible for its own agenda, so it also ultimately determines what is on it. There are very often important dossiers, of which we cannot simply say: we do not deal with them, because then we meet less. On the contrary, the solution of putting in place an external chairman gives the Council the opportunity to spend less time in chairing and spending more time outside the street, or at least to hold the right meetings on important issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you for giving me the floor so quickly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u27	Yeah, I'll be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u28	You're on top of it. Mr Snoeren gave a number of reasons why the council work has increased over the last ten years of his career. He calls it fragmentation and all that. But couldn't a reason also be common that the municipalities are getting bigger and bigger, because they keep merging and when they're merged, merge and then merge again, until they're actually kind of mini-provinces? That's exactly what the VVD supported. Doesn't this just make the VVD fall into her own sword?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u29	No. Mr Bosma also knows this: as a municipality grows, there will also be more council members in proportion. I don't think that's where the problem is. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go on with my input. As I said, chairing and preparing such a council committee will soon take three or four hours. You'd like to bet them outside on the street. And yes, it must be a technical chairman. I totally disagree with Mr Van Raak that this combination is not possible, of a technical chairman. I think that a council committee should be chaired technically, regardless of any policy. I do not agree at all with Mr Van Raak on this. Mr. Chairman. With this initiative we give the municipal councils a little bit more autonomy, a little bit more freedom. However, this small improvement can mean a lot to the councils, the Provincial States and the island councils, looking at the tax and the extra work it entails. It is also a good thing that the municipalities themselves can give substance to this, both in terms of profile and remuneration and whether or not they use it. I really have faith in that. I know a lot of councils and councilmen in my neighborhood. Those are all really good people who can make good profiles and recruit external presidents. I have every confidence in that. Mr. Chairman. The authors describe it in their pieces as well as I have experienced it in recent years and as I have just told it. But this initiative proposal applies not only to committees of municipalities, but also to those of Provincial States and island councils. The question is whether the need there is as great as that of municipalities. If you look at that, I'll ask the proposers. There are also different cultures and practices within the councils, states and island councils. The VVD Group wonders whether proper monitoring of the use of that possibility is not desirable, in order to get an idea of how this external technical chairman is being addressed. We do not want that democratic process to be affected in principle either. Perhaps the Minister could also comment on this in his advice. Mr President, I come to an end. As my contribution shows, I think it is important that the board professionalises, without this leading to professional council members. The strength of a council member is precisely that it is in the midst of society, alongside his work, next to his family and his social contacts. This initiative proposal is a further step in the professionalisation of the Council. The VVD Group has every confidence in the proper implementation of this law. I would like to thank the authors once again for the work done and I expect many city council members to thank you for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you. I call Mr Terpstra of the CDA. To him, this is his maiden speech. That is, as the other attendees know, a good moment. That means that he should not be interrupted, not even by Mr Van Raak, and he regrets that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u31	He did interrupt me, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u32	Yes. Yet it is true, Mr. Terpstra. You will have to deal with that, but there is still a second deadline. I wish you every success. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues here in the Chamber, the staff of the CDA Group and, above all, the staff of the House of Representatives, because without them it would not have been possible to carry out my work, especially in this time of Corona. So that fits first and foremost a word of thanks for the effort that has been made. Mr. Chairman. First of all, it is an honor and pleasure to be here this afternoon. It is therefore good practice to indicate in this house at your first plenary speech from which ideal you address the Chamber. What's the base you're leaving from? What do you think is important to be active in patriotic politics? When I put that on myself, I must think especially of monk Valentine. That's what I want to take you into today. We know monk Valentine first and foremost of course of the scarlet roses we give to our loved ones on February 14, Valentine's Day, but monk Valentine has more to hide in him. I would like to share that political lesson with you, and for that I am a historian anyway.I will take you to a few centuries after Christ, to a small southern Italian village, to a monastery where Monk Valentine was a monk at that time. He worked in the monastery garden. But monk Valentine was an ambitious monk. He wanted to move on. He wanted to join the race, but he was not allowed to do so. He had to be active in that folk garden, in that monastery garden, doing his job. And when he looked at his fellow monks, he was somewhat jealous. For he saw one monk reciting the most beautiful songs in the church and he saw another fellow monk writing the most beautiful stories, writing books, and a third monk being allowed to become bishop again and make a career. None of that was awarded to Valentine and that frustrated him greatly, because he had to sow, prune and dig daily in that monastery garden, do hard physical work. That hit him hard and he got frustrated. He even became so frustrated that he considered laying down his monkship and returning to secular life. One day he was so frustrated that he had thrown his shovel aside, sat down in that monastery garden and thought: I'm all done with it. He was angry. At that time, the versions of the story differ slightly, but I think this was the most beautiful little girl from the Italian village of Valentine. She came to him and said: monk Valentine, do not grieve, for you are great in little things. Being big at little things was what she gave him. Valentine looked at that girl and thought: yes, that is actually a very nice message. He found his joy to be active in the monastery garden and he went to work. For the rest of his life, he worked with great pleasure in that garden. The monastery garden flourished, and with the garden the monastery flourished. The small village that was next to the monastery and the community also flourished. Valentine was great at little things. When he died a few years later, people said: he worked in that garden with great pleasure for years. They said he was big in the little one. Being big in little things is, as far as I'm concerned, a political lesson, at least for me. Valentine didn't care about the community. And so, despite the sometimes hasty existence that we know in the Netherlands, and despite all the ambitions that many people have and which I may have, it is good to be big in small things; to figure you out for the other. When I look at our society, I see that many people do. I am thinking here of the caretaker who takes care of his or her mother or father, and I am thinking of the people who are uninterested in the football club or those who are committed to fighting loneliness; it does not really matter. It's about people who figure themselves out for the other. They're big in little things. As a CDA, I believe in the power of society and in looking after each other. It's my political lesson and my motivation, and it's what I want to work for, here in the Chamber in the coming period. That's the lesson I'm taking, and that's what I'd like to share. Well, I had actually thought of it, because of course it's about Valentine's Day, to give a red rose to the chairman, as with Valentine's Day. But when I saw Mr Van Meenen sitting down, I thought: well, we'll have a beer sometime soon, that's kind of nice. Mr. Chairman. Being big in small things also brings me to this afternoon's initiative proposal. I would therefore like to express my appreciation for the work that has been done and for the drafting of this initiative law. I know both initiators as involved MPs with a great heart for patriotic democracy. And both gentlemen also have a past as city council member, respectively in Utrecht and Leeuwarden, I have selected. So they know the blow of the whip when it comes to the work that council members have to do. And they also know the additional responsibilities and time efforts. Mr. Chairman. In different laws, we require preparatory committee meetings to be chaired by a member from his own centre. The initiators propose to delete this obligation so that it is possible to hire an external chairman. The choice of whether this is desirable is left to the municipalities, provinces and islands themselves. If desired, they can also decide how appointments and any remuneration are to be dealt with. As far as the CDA is concerned, that is a nice interpretation of the idea of subsidiarity. We therefore congratulate the initiators on the space offered to the municipalities, the provinces and the islands. Mr. Chairman. Being a council member, a member of the State or an island council member is a beautiful, yet responsible and time-consuming activity. Research shows that council members lose an average of 17 hours a week, and even 25 hours a week in a large municipality. I see that Mr Van Raak would like to interrupt now, but unfortunately that is not possible. In being a council member, framework and controlling functions come into play. And with all the decentralisations, this work has also become more urgent, more up-to-date and therefore more time-consuming. As far as our group is concerned, it is good that a compulsory presidency for preparatory committees should be decoupled. Mr. Chairman. In many cases, the commitment to the community of council members, island council members and members of Provincial States is combined with a full-time job and council members can also try to have a private life next to it. The CDA Group agrees with the initiators that council members should devote their limited time first and foremost to being a representative of the people. The initiative proposal contributes positively to this. In addition, the proposal provides for a clear need for council members themselves. This is evident from the positive endorsement of the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the Association of Registrars, which therefore also supports the initiative proposal. Our group therefore supports the proposal to abolish the compulsory presidency of committee meetings by council members, members of the States and island council members. Finally, we still have a request for the authors to clarify how an external chairman should deal with secrecy. It happens regularly that pieces are discussed with good reason behind closed doors. In the written round, my group was not yet sufficiently clear on how to deal with this, so please respond. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude by thanking the initiators once again for the much work they have put into this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you very much and I look forward to that beer; in the beautiful Leiden, of course. Congratulations. I would like to suspend for a few moments to give others the opportunity to congratulate you. Let me add: pay very close attention to the rules that we apply here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u35	I would almost say that Mr Bosma of the PVV will resume the sitting, for something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u36	Yeah... a coronamaid speech, but still a maiden speech. Just like the people who are graduating now. It's a final exam after all; it's still a piece of paper. Welcome aboard! A beautiful, inspiring, connecting maiden speech. Yes, that might happen, Mr. Van den Bosch. You are always of polarization, but it is also good that we have this today. Monk Valentine. I quickly googled it: there is no biographical evidence that he has ever lived. That's totally in line with the CDA, I'll say. No backup. And yes, the great and small things, the great adage of monk Valentine and also your adage. I assume you're taking an advance on the CDA's election result. Or am I too cynical now? Welcome aboard. That's a great story, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u37	I would just like to say to Mr Terpstra that he can intervene. I'm just gonna give it to him before he sits in all modesty. Proceed, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u38	I don't want to invite him to that. We had a maiden speech earlier today: from our new colleague, Mr Snoeren. What we are seeing today is, in a way, the opposite of a maiden speech, because this is Mr Van den Bosch who, in the wake of his parliamentary career, is going to flame with a genuine initiative law........................................................................................................................................................................................ A little bit of your Black Pete, I think. I do not know whether my farewell gift to you, Mr Van den Bosch, is going to consist of voting in favour of this law, or whether my group is going to vote in favour of it. For I am not yet convinced of the brilliance of your proposal. But there's still a lot to be done. My first question is: what problem are we talking about today? What exactly is to be solved? In order to make it a bit attractive, the documents write a lot about an "external chairman as technical chairman," as it is called. My question is, what the hell is a technical chairman? My idea is that every chairman is a technical chairman, otherwise he is a talk show host. It must be a chairman's honor to be untechnical. I assume that this chairman is also doing his best, and I will do so if I am allowed to sit in that seat, and our permanent chairman, Mrs Arib, is certainly doing so in order to show nothing that he agrees with or disagrees with anything. That's why you're president. If we were to say 'the chairman of the service is not technical', we would now have to have an order debate to drop him off and put someone else there. He's got an appointment with his supporters, so he might appreciate it, but I don't think a chairman is always technical. Politics is politics. We are, of course, seeing a kind of technologicalization of politics. It's no longer about conflicting societal visions. It is a kind of cool, technocratic policy weighing that we are opposed to. Politics is the process of articulation of social contradictions at state level: that is the definition of the political scientist Fennema, to whom, I believe, Mr Van den Bosch has been on coffee. We are seeing politically more and more as technocratic. That is also because of the very large municipal councils, at a local level, and we see it all in security risks. All these units are covered by the WGR, the Common Regulations Act. And the ideologies have also virtually disappeared from politics, here from the House of Representatives. In daily politics, we are increasingly seeing a build-up. GroenLinks and the VVD are now ideologically merged with everything in between. They are all in favour of diversity and inclusion, all for the EU and for the fight against the nation state, all for climate socialism, all for the gender genesis. For example, the only thing that is intellectually interesting about the VVD is the speed with which it embraces the demands of cultural Marxism. It's not like she's gonna do it. If the hatred of our Black Piet becomes a leftist fashion, it's only a matter of time before the VVD takes over. First she flutters a bit before the form, waiting until the moment is there that her supporters are warmed up by the left-liberal media. And then she just takes over. Long behind us are the days when they still had real conservatives like Harm van Riel or Theo Joekes. And you can actually put that story before a lot of parties. Everyone's a little on the same page. Everyone scratches each other's backs. Everyone's giving each other a job. And everyone agrees that people who are outside the Left-liberal consensus should be excluded. Those are the trickies, those are the populists, the soccer supporters and other inferior people. If politics is no longer political, you will have technocratic proposals. Then you're gonna say, "Oh, who cares who's in charge?" 'Cause he's just technical, right? But that's a step in the wrong direction. What's coming after the technical chairman? The technical alderman, the technical mayor or the technical city councilman? You can actually let go of all the arguments. I hope that technical MP Van den Bosch will enjoy his retirement with great pleasure. I wish him all the happiness and health, but there is little chance that my group will give him a vote in favour of his swanzer cheek as a farewell gift. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thank you. There is an interruption for you from Mr Terpstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u40	However, I think it is always a good idea to start with what Mr Bosma has to say about an initiative proposal in which we are talking about the Presidency of committees, Black Piet and the Left-liberal elite. I can always look at that with admiration: all the arguments are drawn from the left and the right. But then my question. I was triggered by the following. Mr Bosma said: yes, they are giving each other jobs. "They," he said. Who's "they"? That's just the question. But that's exactly what we're not doing right now. This proposal is aimed at promoting and encouraging, through a technical chairman, that people's representativeship, which Mr Bosma is always very keen on, that it is so important. Can he just reflect on that and go into it? That's what we're actually promoting instead of ending up at Black Piet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u41	No, we are not promoting this by means of this initiative proposal, because it is being depoliticized. Then there is someone sitting in a chair who is not a representative of the people but someone who presides over the committee in Doetinchem on Monday and in Leeuwarden on Tuesday or anywhere else. So that is completely depoliticized. That has nothing whatsoever to do with a representative of the people. I think that as a political body, you should just do it yourself. You must have self-respect and be able to simply say that our chairman does not do or does not do the job. So that's exactly what you're saying. This is precisely playing jobs, because you get a whole circuit of people who are good at it or who are popular. Maybe they're familiar with television. Maybe they're talking show host at the NPO one day and they're chairing the city council or committee the next day. One minute they present Lingo and the next minute... Oh, no, that's a bad example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u42	I have one follow-up question. Mr Bosma also has city council members. Take Rotterdam. I believe the PVV has one seat in the city council. This gentleman or lady should also go out on the streets, should also recruit votes and should also engage in discussions with the citizens. All this precious time that this person has to spend on the Presidency, is it not good if this precious time is not spent on the pure, technical chair of the committees, but this person, this PVV Councillor, can just go out on the street? Does Mr Bosma not agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u43	No, I disagree. If you represent a small group, you unfortunately have little time to do that sort of thing and to take on the more general tasks. Here in the House of Representatives, for example, you can see that. People who represent small groups will not be so soon, I will mention just what the chairman of the parliamentary committees we have. It's very simple: they don't have much time. It puts enormous pressure on a small group to supply people for it, and so you will see more in practice that they are representatives of the larger groups. So in Rotterdam's example, I can imagine that person saying: sorry, I don't have time to chair a city council committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we are all looking back a little bit, I think Mr Bosma is failing his group colleagues Wilders, Fritsma and De Graaf. That is why I was on the Hague Council a few years ago. I have had the necessary discussions with them, which were not so technocratic. Anyway, there are more former PVVs in the Hague council now than PVV's, so maybe that's because of the technocratisation. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the members of the Chamber who are in trade-K. It is good to see that they did not let it go when their party colleagues across the street rejected the proposal, but simply climbed into the pen and put a proposal together again. I do not need to repeat that. The taxation of council members is large and growing. In order to lighten the work of the council members, the initiators propose that non-Council members, Member States or island council members also be chairman of council committees. As a councilman, I often sighed that it was so much work myself. Some people said to me: then you need to focus a little more on the main lines and be a little less that glorified policy officer. That sounded exactly like what Mr Van Raak said. That was, of course, a useful advice, which I had a lot of use for, but it was only a limited solution, because that monitoring task is indeed very important. We will also have to look at better support yesterday as the Home Affairs Committee with the President of the Public Administration Council. That's the professionalization that was referred to. That's what they're doing. That can help, too. We ourselves, as a Chamber, took that initiative. But it is also a good thing that colleagues have looked at what else can happen to bring relief. I am curious to see what more they are looking at, in addition to the proposal they now have, because they are also both experienced local politicians. What other ideas do they have to bring that enlightenment? I don't know if that's necessarily in a return to monism. On the specific proposal we are discussing, I have four more questions. The first is about the technical role. When I look back at my term as chairman of the Accounting Committee, I think it is a rather marginal description. The same applies to what is happening here, as Mr Bosma said. I would like to invite the initiators to explain a little further what they mean by saying that it is a technical role and not a political role, for example when it comes to the agenda and that kind of subject, but it is simply one of the Members. Then the travelling circus that was called. The SP described it as striking in the report: the presidents of the professions. The authors write that they do not fear that phenomenon. My question is what they mean by 'do not fear': do they see it happening, but are they not afraid of it, or do they not see it happening at all? 'Cause that makes a big difference. If they do see it perform but are not so afraid of it, I would like to hear what is the reason for it. Thirdly, the financial paragraph. It's missing. We had a debate earlier today in which although it was a much larger amount, I still have the question to the two authors why Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act would not apply here. Is their argument: it is a power, not a duty, so we do not have to look at Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act? Or do they say, "Then should the ozb be increased in those congregations?" That seems to me to be a very attractive perspective for the two groups they represent. Finally, the evaluation clause. It's missing. Precisely because of the freedom they leave to municipalities, there will be great pluralism. Method of appointment: municipalities have to look for themselves. Reward: municipalities have to look for themselves. They're allowed to do some committees, not other committees. I wonder how we're gonna look at the effects in a few years' time. How do the proposers look at that? Perhaps the Minister could also say something about this: how does she see it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you very much. This puts an end to the first term of office. I'll take a look at the initiators to see what they prefer. Shall we suspend for... ten minutes, fifteen minutes? We can eat first; whatever you want. I hear you don't eat first. Okay, then I'll suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u47	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Van den Bosch and Van der Molen amending the Municipal Law, the Province Act and so on. We are going to listen to the authors in their response to the first term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van den Bosch of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin, of course, by congratulating Mr Terpstra on his wonderful maiden speech. What did I get out of that? I've been left with being big in little things. That's a nice one, especially when you grow up. My father used to say, "It's the little things that do it in life." Maybe this bill is something big too, because it is still an initiative proposal, but actually it is quite a small thing. We will not win the Nobel Prize with this, Mr Van der Molen and I think, but it is a big thing for a lot of council members. So that's how I made the link while you kept that beautiful story. Again, good luck and congratulations very much. What is more beautiful, Mr President, than that we have two proposals for our own initiative in this Chamber in one day? Because that is also the core business of the Chamber, which is sometimes forgotten. Mr. Van Raak is also a great advocate of that. And then we had two maiden speeches. Surely that is a special moment for this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Let me make it clear that I will do the introduction and sometimes elaborate a little bit, because I understand that we have until 11 p.m., and Mr Van der Molen's speech goes a little deeper into all the questions that have been asked. Before I go on with the content, I would like to thank some people first, because that is always nice when it comes to an initiative proposal. This may seem like a very small initiative proposal, but we have been working on it for a year. You see when you make something that counts every comma and every dot. It's actually kind of more complicated than I thought. I thought we'd do that in a month. Van der Molen thought two months. We thought we'd be in the middle of it, but it took us a year anyway. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs De Groot very much behind me. She put a hell of a lot of time in here. I want to have said that anyway. I would also like to thank Mr Den Heijer, Mr Dillingh and Mr Van Stigt, our collaborators. They're not there in the context of corona, but they're probably watching on television. And I would also like to thank the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Mr Knops, very much, because he has been very helpful to us. That's a good thing to say. I would also like to thank the Chamber for the positive stories, the critical stories, the well-known ones, I would almost say to some of them, but I will go on about that in a moment. I'd like to look back at the history, even if it's just for the story later, how we got here. Mr Van Raak made an attempt, but it stuck at some point. I'm gonna do it all over again. In 2013, the previous cabinet, with Minister Plasterk, came up with a proposal to do what we are now proposing, so it would be possible for Council Committees or Provincial State Committees to be able to do so, I am just talking about council committees, but I mean to have them all presided over by non-Council members. An amendment was tabled by Mr Van Raak in 2014, which was adopted. Two parties voted against that amendment. I'd almost say it's a special ally. That was the PVV, which did not support the amendment at the time. And that, of course, has been D66, because they always lead the way when it comes to this kind of thing. They probably already realized that they were going to vote against the amendment, because it was quite a good idea from Minister Plasterk. That said, Mr. Chairman. I had a position in Zaltbommel back then. I can tell you that my city council in Zaltbommel exploded when that amendment was adopted. That's where they took care of it. They had made profiles, they had introduced a carousel system, because it all fits in at this time, and had sought independent technical experts whatever you're going to call them presidents. Those were often former council members or former aldermen who liked to sit in front. That worked out perfectly. Zaltbommel wasn't the only city that exploded. The minister was contacted at the time, but the minister intervened and said it was not allowed, "law is law." I can still hear myself saying it as mayor: yes, it is a pity, but law is law and we have to abide by it. At that time the Minister announced his intention to make an experimental law, because he was willing to give municipalities the space to see if this could work through experiments, because there really was a lot of municipality needs. This experimental law was finally said by this minister and by this cabinet "yes, do you have to do all that with experiments now?'. I'm just saying it in my own words. Then just get it right, whatever's going on. So this law has been repealed again. In 2018 I personally argued in a general consultation that the City Act should be amended. In March 2018 I am also saying this to Mr Van Raak; so a little later than in 2014, many parties who also voted in favour of that amendment voted in favour of a motion by VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristianUnion in which the Minister was called upon to make a legislative change, in order to get this out of the Municipal Act. The minister did that, and the minister was wise, quick and smart. Can I say that, too? It's called "smart and strong" these days. It then used a legislative proposal in the Chamber on the extension of the power to waive the requirement of residence of aldermen and delegates to come forward with a letter of amendment. She did, and that all happened very quickly, I have to say. I'm always proud of that, until I get on with it. In that letter of amendment it was therefore decided to delete Article 82, paragraph 4, of the Municipal Law and thus to allow for what we now come up with. That law was passed by a large majority in this Chamber. The SP voted in favour of the law, but with the note that they were opposed to this part. The PVV was against it. Then came the First Chamber, our friends in the Senate. They rejected the law on 4 June 2019. This had to do with the opposition to the waiver of the requirement of residence, i.e. the original legislative proposal. The First Chamber felt that the Minister should come up with a vision of local government before doing so. There has been no criticism at all of the proposal before us today, but it was about residence, and they felt that a vision of the cabinet should first come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u49	Does Mr Van den Bosch still know which parties in the Senate voted against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u50	Yeah, that included the VVD and the CDA. That's how we work in this country. You have also been on the Senate, I say through the President to Mr Van Raak. Fortunately, the Senate is independent. I wasn't happy about that as a member of the House of Representatives, but that's how it works. They have the right, I think, sometimes to make their own statements. They had an argument that was neither my argument nor the Minister's. That's how it works, and that's nice. The bad luck, of course, was that we had a problem now, because this wonderful idea of giving the city council members, which is incredibly much needed, more room to do their public representative tasks, was gone. Then Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van den Bosch looked each other in the eye, I can tell you. We were pretty quick to get out, weren't we? This is a matter for the European Parliament and for the European Parliament. I understand that the Minister cannot do that if her bill has just been rejected. So we took the initiative, and that is how we stand here, Mr President, until tonight. I will say that, and that is an answer in general: this really led to a lot of disappointment in a lot of municipalities. Until yesterday, there were still a lot of municipalities that said, "Hey, hey, when are you guys gonna take care of it? That's the story. I'm about to say something about it, but there's a lot of support for it. That's what you saw in the letters. There is support from the municipalities, the Association of Registrars, the Association of Council Members. In fact, they say unanimously, "Do that, give us that space." The Council of State was also very positive, and we have also heard from the input of many of your groups that they are in principle very positive about this law. That does us good, and we thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. What's the most important thing now? We can make it very principled. I had written a whole page to convince Mr Van Raak. I thought we'd leave together in March, so what's better than us getting out of here together? Also among his SP council members there are certainly those who are actually very happy with this. But that is also allowed in your party, of course; that is also a free party in that regard. Maybe not with everything, but with this. But what's it about? Well, that's essential. We can have a very fundamental discussion and say: this or this, or that or that. For us, and also for me very much from my past: let those municipalities, let those councils and states just decide for themselves. Then Mr. Bosma, Mr. Van Raak and perhaps I can have a different opinion, and I know a lot more, perhaps Mr. Terpstra, but let's deal with our democracy a little more maturely. Let's just give these communities the room to make this assessment. I think they can. In a large municipality it may not happen as soon as possible, but in those smaller municipalities, I say to Mr Van Raak, through you, of course, Mr President, there is a great need for this. That's really got to do with the council membership. This is something we can discuss separately in the context of the fact that dualism has become very difficult. I can remember from my own experience that it was always hard; it took a lot of time. In practice, you can also see that there are a lot of council members who cannot play President at all, if I may put it that way. They don't feel like it at all, and they don't do it right. They're not all called Mr. Bosma. There are council members who don't have it in their genes to be a good president. Well, if you're on such a board, it's also nice if you can decide as a board: guys, we do a nice profile and look for presidents who like it and are good at it and then those meetings are well run. That's how you should see it in the context of this law. In addition to the principles of some of you, I would say: think about them and just give them the confidence and space to be representatives of the people in particular. Let's see. The SP is going to vote against it anyway, so I can put a lot of time into it. I am trying to give Mr Van Raak, through you, President, the insight to think again tonight or at the weekend. Maybe in 2014 you had an understandable position, so did other parties, but parties have come to their senses, so just give those councils the confidence! Doesn't that just fit with the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u51	I want to promise that I will think again, but then Mr Van den Bosch will have to read the whole piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u52	The beauty of my story is that I've been doing a lot off my mind and not just taking notes. In fact, it said here: what is better than having a nice farewell gift for the congregations at the end of our two parliamentary membership in March to let the members there do their job as a representative of the people? How beautiful it can be that we say goodbye together like this. That may be called a swan song, Mr. Chairman, but it's nice to get this done. Again, we're not doing this for fun, we're not sitting here for fun, we're doing this because we really believe that this is good for all these city councils. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few small comments. Mr Van der Molen goes further on the content, but when the question is asked what problem we are solving, it is a little advisable to determine that. Look, there'll really be guesses. I can really name you a lot of municipalities that are very happy if they can do this, because a they don't have the people for it and b some people can't preside over it. So they can find other people. That's a problem you'll solve, and then they can leave someone the choice. They can also do it together, that's all possible, but give them that space. So we are solving this problem, and I say to Mr Bosma, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. I want to end up with a tweet. I saw a tweet today from a former D66 council member............................................................................................................... He has sent a tweet with the text: means step forward in the practical work of council members. This seems like a nice tweet to end with. Thank you all for your attention, as they say at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you very much. Then Mr Van der Molen of the CDA will undoubtedly continue the treatment after cleaning the microphone and the speaker chair. Mr. van der Molen, to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mr Terpstra for the questions he has put and also on my behalf for congratulating him on his maiden speech. I haven't noticed anything about nerves, where a lot of novice Members of Parliament, when I speak for myself, suffer from such a speech. I wish you every success, of course, in fighting something big in this Chamber sometimes on the small subjects, and it may be given to you to do so for a very long time. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van den Bosch has already said something about the reason for this law in general. The distribution is such that I will answer a number of questions raised by the various groups on the more technical aspect of the proposal that is now before us. However, I would like to comment on that dualisation side, also in the direction of Mr Van Raak, to point out that it is not the intention of the proposers to ensure that council members will not be involved in practice in the future. Mr Van Raak made a very explicit reference to the issues we have dealt with here. From the CDA, I attach great importance to the position of the lay administration. If necessary, people must have very little knowledge of the situation, but a great deal of knowledge about society must be able to take part in the city council. We share that as words like "professionalization" fall, you think: yes, professionalization of what? If this professionalization hits the councilman's space, I'd back off, too. The proposal we are making here is precisely designed to create space, at least by providing councils, States and island councils with the opportunity not to do unnecessary work or, as Mr Van den Bosch says, if there are no people in a small council, to play a number of hours in that busy council work in order to carry out that role to the full, to which we both attach. I would add that I also think it is right, and Mr Van den Bosch has the same view, even from the autonomy of the municipality, that a ban or a commandment in the law is now being transformed into a space for own considerations. I entrust it to the members of the municipal council to consider with each other whether they would like to use an external chairman in the future. Mr Van Raak began his speech by saying that if I am to have an amendment, then years after that there must be a legislative proposal to reverse it. I would like to say that if two Members of Parliament even have a legislative proposal for it, you should take it as a compliment. The VVD. Mr Snoeren raised the question of whether the need for municipal councils for many years, and what we are trying to do with this proposal, is equal with Provincial States and with island councils. I must admit that the wish comes mainly from municipal councils. Not only the small, actually many municipalities want the space to be able to make this assessment. We have also written to the provinces in this process. You could see that. The reaction of the IPO, the consultative body of the provinces, was: that is to the provinces themselves. There will be different opinions, as is the case with the municipal councils. We did not then do that in twelve provinces. We have argued: if we have arguments for municipalities, it is not reasonable to make an exception for Provincial States. Equal monks, equal hoods. On the contrary, we have received a positive response from the island councils. To leave provincial states out of it would be very crazy. For water boards we have made a different assessment. This has to do with the fact that there is no legal provision on committees in relation to water boards. Then a provision would not be appropriate here. As you know, water boards function from a monistic angle, while all the other councils I have mentioned work from a dualist angle. That's why. But we assume that all fellow governments will be pleased with the fact that they will be given extra room for their own choices. There is, of course, the idea that they can decide that very well themselves and that we do not have to do so from The Hague. Mr. Chairman. Mr Terpstra asked questions about confidentiality on behalf of the CDA Group. If there is an external chairman, the question is: what can he or she do in practice and should he or she in practice comply with the rules that apply to council members? You have read in the note following the report that we are referring to a proposal from the Minister. The Minister has a proposal to the Chamber on integrity and wants to make adjustments to the confidentiality obligation that applies to committees. We agree with that proposal because, as we have heard, it stipulates that the chairman of a committee is not about secrecy, but that it will be a collective agreement. In practice, this will mean that an external chairman will only be able to impose confidentiality on the documents he or she brings in. That does not actually occur in practice, but he or she will have to comply with the confidentiality rules, because they are part of the committee. So should it be agreed that certain documents lead to secrecy, those rules of course also apply to the President, even if they are external. This also applies, of course, in all cases to council members who can preside over a committee now and perhaps also in the future, because councils can already decide that they do not want external presidents at all. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has asked a number of questions which overlap with questions raised by Mr Sneller van D66. The first question was very much about the concept of 'technical chairman'. Then what are we talking about in practice? If a chairman is a good chairman, isn't he or she always a technical chairman? The term "technical chairman" is used in speech. When you talk about a technical chairman, you really want to underline that such a chairman should not interfere with the content of the sitting. Mr Bosma agrees with Mr Van den Bosch and with me that that is what is decided in the word 'President'. Then why are you putting it up? That is actually normal use of speech, to emphasize that distinction once again. Because there was a concern in the questions in the note following the report whether someone outside would not interfere with matters of the municipality where he or she is resident or not, we thought it appropriate to use that word. In doing so, we only emphasise that it is the role of the President, even if he is an external chairman, not to interfere with the content of the sitting, but to conduct the process in an orderly and sound manner. Municipal Councils and Provincial States will in practice be able to decide with each other what a President should do in this respect. I would remind you of a question in the note following the report, namely whether the discussions will be improved by an external President. Well, a chairman must also understand the art of allowing sufficient discussion without disrupting order. There are council members who can do that, but externals can do that too. The personal content is therefore always important, but the basic agreement is: you do not interfere as chairman with the content. That is why we used the word 'technical chairman' and used the word 'technical chairman'. Mr Bosma, like Mr Sneller, has made a comment on what I call 'the circus of moving presidents'. I have heard Mr Van Raak say the same. Is that what we're afraid of? I would like to summarize Mr Sneller's question. Well, we're not afraid of that, but that doesn't mean we don't see it happening. Maybe I can make a comparison with the Court of Auditors in the Netherlands. I think we are all pleased that municipalities can make use of a Court of Auditors or a Court of Auditors function either independently or collectively. In practice, we then see that in practice there are a number of people sitting in different audit chambers, in one audit chamber as chairman and in the other audit chamber as a member. But often they do, because they have very specific knowledge that can be useful for auditing chambers. I do not rule out the possibility, in practice, of external presidents being able to do so in one or two municipalities. The emphasis is on whether we are afraid of that. No, we're not afraid of that. On the one hand, we are not afraid of this because we put our trust in the consideration of the council members concerned, Statesmen and island council members, because it is perfectly possible to determine with each other that you do not consider this desirable. On the other hand, we are not afraid of that because, as in the Courts of Auditors, we do not see that it will happen on a very large scale. So we are not afraid of a circus and should it become a circus, we are confident that the council members will limit themselves to that. Mr. Chairman. D66 has asked a few questions about what I call "the smaller things." But they are certainly not insignificant! Mr Sneller referred to the financial paragraph. The assessment at the time of the adoption of the initiative law was that these would not be substantial amounts. We've checked that out here and there, too. Furthermore, we have not found it in the reaction of the Association of Dutch Municipalities. We all know the Association of Dutch Municipalities. If they had even one millimeter to comment on the budgetary effects, we would have had them. Mr Van den Bosch has just informed me in the preparation that, in the example he himself mentioned, it was ten-tone work in the municipality. That has then been a rather economical or, if you will, greedy congregation. But it will be in practice. Mr Sneller already asked whether it had anything to do with the introduction of an option for these councils. That's what it's got to do with. We have said a little more about this in the note on the report, because we also believe that this is a matter for the Council. I can imagine, and then I speak for myself, President-in-Office of the Council, that in a discussion about external presidents, someone from the Provincial States would ask what that would cost and whether we would give that amount to each other. That could be a trade-off. If it were to cost €10,000 on an annual basis, the council might well say: that would suit us very well, but we are not doing it; we would rather spend that €10,000 on just one goal. I think that is too fair a balance that any city council can make, but the financial consequences are limited, and that is also why you do not find a financial paragraph in this proposal. We have also heard from no one we have asked, that we should take that into account. Then Mr Sneller asked another question about the evaluation of this law. I have also heard the word'monitors' from Mr Snoeren on behalf of the VVD. It is wise, I think, to say at some point: we have offered this space, what has happened to it? Perhaps very little in practice, but that is also relevant to know. In relation to the scope of the law, at least Mr Van den Bosch and I believe that an evaluation as we know it with an evaluation clause would be quite substantial. That would mean that a whole circus would have to be rigged for that. However, I would like to take up Mr Snoeren's speech, because I recognize Mr Sneller's point. Monitoring would, I think, be in order. I do not mean that in terms of spying, but at least we would like to know how this is handled and whether we might also see things go wrong, which we might not have anticipated in advance. In reply to Mr Snoeren's question and Mr Sneller's question, I would like to refer, for example, to the biennial State of the Board, in which a full picture of the state of affairs is also given to local government. As initiators, we can imagine that such a report will also cover this issue in monitoring. That is how we look at it, but Mr Snoeren has also presented this point to the Minister, and perhaps the Minister will be able to show how she looks at it in that respect. But evaluation in the sense of a provision is a little too big for a little thing that is going to do great things in practice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u55	Thank you very much. First we clean the cathedral and the microphone. Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations from her advisory role in relation to this bill. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to congratulate Mr Terpstra on his maiden speech, and indeed Mr Snoeren, as an advisor to Parliament. I was there when he made his maiden speech earlier today, but then we all weren't allowed to say anything, because it was only the first term. So here's to it. Of course, my compliments also to the initiators, present here, and to their support. I always like being able to be there when there is an initiative proposal. I will say a few things about the government's position on this bill, but yes, that the government is positive should not be surprised, because it's a little Groundhog Day I've already said that here, but I'd like to say it again. The previous bill, Mr Van den Bosch explained history and, as historian, he did that of course eloquent.. was rejected by the previous First Chamber in her after days. I am pleased that this part of the proposal is now revived in this initiative legislative proposal. The requirement for a council committee to be chaired by a council member shall lapse. As a result, the Board may, if it wishes, also opt for a member other than a council member as technical chairman of a council committee. The words "external chairman" may call up some wrong associations here and there, because, of course, in practice, it will be very often about civil council members, duos, former council members and former aldermen, people who are very involved in local politics. It is a need that exists in practice. This need is unabated in relation to the past, in which this has been proposed once. I, too, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, recognise the desire from local practice for more space and local customization. We have no objection to the proposal before us on this point. Those of us who have been active locally themselves know that the council committees play an important role. They are intended to prepare the board's decision-making. They may consult aldermen and the mayor for this purpose. I believe that this proposal will relieve the burden on the council members in the smaller municipalities and the council members from smaller groups, who feel that the chairing of the council committee is a relatively heavy time tax. All council members, of course, want to be able to devote time to their popularly represented tasks, their framework tasks, their controlling tasks, so what the council's work really is. If this change of law continues, it is up to the city council itself to draw up rules on the chairing of the council committees by regulation. It remains a local autonomy. You can do it, but you don't have to. Some will simply continue to appoint council members as president, but there will soon be room for change. I fully agree with the initiators on this point: the final responsibility for the Presidency lies with the elected representative of the people, locally. It has just been said: in the end it is also about chairing, that is a technical task. Mr Bosma stressed that. That's what I agree with. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked to me. Mr Van Raak informed us of the state of play of the motion he tabled not at this BZK budget debate but at that of a year ago. It was about dualization. In a letter which came to your Chamber on 30 June last, I gave effect to that motion. I then looked back at a whole series of evaluations made of the dualisation of municipal and provincial administration. From all these previous evaluations and reports, I conclude that dualism functions broadly as it was intended. But of course there is always room for improvement; that is also stated in the letter. In the core, of course, dualisation was about strengthening the position of councils and states. My letter states that, as far as I am concerned, we should focus on the further development of this dualisation. Better support for council members, so that they can fully fulfil the role of the people's representatives and the roles I have just mentioned, is part of that, as far as I am concerned. Thus, this bill can also contribute to this. Finally, a question which came back in various forms and just now in Mr Van der Molen's reply. I thought Mr Snoeren asked that first. He said, "Maybe we should just watch how this goes. Can we monitor that? Can we keep up with that?" I think that's a good proposal. Mr Sneller repeated that afterwards and Mr Van der Molen referred to me just a moment ago. I think it's a really good proposal. We already collect a lot of information about everything that happens in the public administration in the so-called State of the Board. That's a biennial monitor. I could imagine giving this to you if the bill is accepted, of course, at the next question for the State of the Board. Then I will ask for this new opportunity for the chairing of the Council committees to be included, so that we can have a clear view of it and also assess how it is being applied and how it is going to be done in a while. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u57	Thank you. That concludes the first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I am looking first at Mr Van Raak. He doesn't need it. Mr. Snoeren? No. Mr. Terpstra, if only to be interrupted? No, I didn't. Mr. Bosma? No. And neither is Mr. Sneller? Yeah, well, then maybe I can ask the initiators if they want to add anything else. No. I have to say, then, that this initiative proposal is being considered rather abruptly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-11.u58	The bill will be voted in this Chamber next Tuesday. We look forward to that. Once again, I would like to thank the initiators, the minister, the support, the Members, our unfaithful support of the Chamber, who has dragged us through this again, and everyone who has followed this debate elsewhere. I wish you a very nice evening. Thank you.
