ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u1	I welcome the Secretary of Law back to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not easy in these strange days to make time available for an oral hearing. You did that for this bill, didn't you? I would like to express my deepest thanks for this. The bill is, you could say, an answer to one of the most important challenges that I face in my period, namely: how do we reduce the risks to society when criminals return to society? Direct triggers were a number of painful events that are engraved in our memories forever. I noticed that yesterday in the contributions of many Members. There has been a lot of work on change and improvement to prevent the recurrence of such horrible events. This bill focuses on the resocialisation of a delinquent in society. The granting of freedoms is an integral part of this, but you must do so in such a way that every step in that process also provides a place for the protection of society. I believe that we have managed to find a good balance with this bill. I look forward to checking this proposal against the views and views of your Chamber. It is precisely when dealing with a proposal that changes so much that it is important to be able to look each other in the eye. Hence my thanks. Important part of this bill is the establishment of conditional release. This changes a lot and we will be able to talk about this extensively, but at the same time this vi is also the final part of a much longer journey. There's a lot more ahead of it. Before we go into depth and pay a great deal of attention to that particular element, I think it is important to outline the broader framework. In order to protect society from returning prisoners, a prison sentence should, from the moment of entry, from day one, be dominated by the question: what are we going to do to ensure that the behaviour and attitude changes? It's a permanent change of behavior. In doing so, we appeal to the responsibility of of offenders. Good citizenship can also be expected from them. Anyone who doesn't show a change of behavior loses freedom. Punishment is punishment. The credibility of our system stands or falls upon effective implementation. The appeal to that responsibility, to good citizenship, is opposed to the outstretched hand of a government. For many inmates, for many inmates, it stands or falls with the help they get to get their lives back on track. Anyone who's ever been to a prison recognizes that. There are many people with other problems, psychiatric disorders, addiction, an intellectual disability and so on. So the government has a moral duty to help prisoners as best they can. The government must therefore also make full use of the detention period, the sentence from day one. This is in the interest of the prisoner, but it is also in the interest of society. Punishment usually comes to an end. We still have a life sentence in the Netherlands, but the vast majority of penalties have an end date. When a prisoner returns without proper preparation, we all lose. A safe return starts on day one with what you might call a personal approach in coordination with all the agencies you need to realize that: DJI, but also parole and municipalities. This legislative proposal removes all kinds of obstacles that prevent or sometimes even prevent cooperation. For example, it concerns the basis for exchanging data on prisoners, for example when transferring a prisoner from one authority to another. Municipalities and parole are more closely involved in the different phases of the detention and reintegration process. Ultimately, the person-oriented approach and the uniform criteria that apply to it throughout the detention period will also improve the connection between the phase of detention, i.e. the steps to that end, and the final moment when the conditional release starts. Thus we arrive at a single unified system with a certain logic in it, which leads to a common thread running through the whole process of detention. This legislative proposal provides the basis for that unambiguous system, which does justice to all interests and expectations. I believe that this will contribute to effective implementation. I believe that this also reflects the punitive nature of the prison sentence and the expectations that society has on that point. And I believe that this proposal creates the right conditions for a successful return, successful rehabilitation and a safe return of prisoners in society. Many thanks for all the comments made yesterday. I have heard support here and there, but also many points on which we need to discuss today. I'd like to start with that. I thought I'd build up my speech as follows. I will start with the discussion on the maximation of the vi-term of two years. I will go into the questions that have been asked about the basis of the legislative proposal. Next, I will deal with the examination of the vi and the division of tasks between the prosecution and the judge, including the criteria on which the prosecution will assess: behaviour, risks and victim interests. Thirdly, I would like to address the implementation and implementation of the legislative proposal, the various implementation consequences. A number of you have already indicated: we are talking today about the paper start, but in the end it stands or falls with how it is handled in practice. So that's an important part. I would like to conclude with, among other things, the right of transition. Finally, I would like to comment on a few broader reflections on issues that are not so much related to this legislative proposal as they do require an answer. Mr. Chairman. Several Members have asked what the purpose of this bill is. What is the need for these changes? I would like to emphasise two points. The first is the issue of preparation for return. Several improvements are possible. Think, for example, of better information exchange and better cooperation that makes this possible. But think also of focusing more on a change of behavior, focusing on all elements of a punishment, including the granting of leave and conditional release. Because if you just look at the facts and the figures, it bothers me that 50% of the people who leave prison are still coming back in the foreseeable future. 50%! It has to be and can be better. You want to keep these people on the straight track, you want to offer them a good future and you want to work together with different partners, municipalities and parole, but you see that there are a number of legal bumps that stand in the way of effective work. That's what we're trying to clean up with this bill. The other point is the connection of conditional release to the detention phase. Among others, Mrs Veldhoen quoted the Erasmus University report. This shows that the conditional release is working well on a number of points, but also that there are still parts where it is not working properly. One of these things is the connection of the detention phase to the vi. Furthermore, the report shows that there is already a movement towards more customization in the application of the vi. With this bill, I want to embezzle it better and continue it. Now Mrs Veldhoen and Mrs Bikker, if I remember correctly, asked whether it would be necessary to revise the whole system. Would a number of minor changes not suffice? I think the first thing is necessary. With this bill, we are trying to achieve a coherent and consistent system, not just small repairs, but to see the logic of the whole in full. For this reason, this legislative proposal has chosen to review and align the whole system of detention phase and vi, creating a single system in which the prisoner gradually grows to return to society. For this, it is important that the same approach is applied throughout the phasing process. There were questions about the proposal to limit the vi-term to two years. This proposal should be seen in the light of the better balance I am seeking with this legislative proposal. So that is more, I say in the direction of a number of Members who have asked critical questions about this, than sailing on the sentiment of society. It is about doing justice to the penalties imposed and also about the credibility of the penalties. After all, it affects the feeling of justice. Freedoms that are needed to prepare prisoners for return to society are part of it. That requires us all to explain this in a good way, but then these freedoms must also be marked by that return and must not be longer than strictly necessary. The way the vi is now furnished... I believe that Mrs Bikker or Mr Cliteur indicated that with very long sentences you have a vi of up to ten years. You might wonder if that's necessary. Mr Cliteur felt, I understand him, that this bill would give rise to the suggestion that the retaliation and preparation for return always go hand in hand. I agree with him that sometimes there may be tension in this, but that does not mean that we must cherish both elements and give them a place. It's about payback on the one hand. That's why we're punishing. Mr Janssen had an interesting contribution yesterday. He asked why, in the title of the bill, punishments are first; after all, punishments are only a means of achieving a better return to society. I think I'm just looking at something else. I also see punishment as a goal in itself. A punishment is part of the retaliation, in order to compensate for suffering, of what has been done to the victims and society. But seeing punishment only as a goal, I find it too shortsighted. You want to take advantage of the time someone's inside to see if you can get their life back on track. Can you make sure that someone is a better person when he returns, or at least a person who does better things? So the punishment is both a means and a purpose, you might say. I think we have tried to bring both elements together in this bill as best we can. Mr. Chairman. There was a call for social support. We can be very short and very long about that. We regularly assess how society looks at our system of penalties. A very large proportion of the Dutch, some 72% of the respondents, are currently negatively opposed to the release of prisoners after two thirds of their sentence. This, combined with the question of whether you need all this time with long sentences, has led us to believe that these two years are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question to the Minister is twofold. First of all, I see the purpose of a sentence not only on a prisoner, to let him know what he did wrong. There is this aspect and the aspect that one can return to society well. But there is also another aspect, namely the restoration of the rule of law. I believe that it is precisely in this way that society invests in the government and that society says so: something has gone wrong here and we are correcting it. I think that's why your department is called "Justice." That is why I welcome the fact that we have a Minister for Legal Protection who is looking at that whole. I would like to give that as an overarching idea. With regard to the time limit for conditional release, I have to ask whether the Minister is now ready with his argument as to why this two-year period is so justified. If that is not the case, I am reassured, because then I look forward with great interest to the follow-up to his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u5	We said something about the cause. I think Mrs Bikker's question is then whether that time is enough, do you not need a longer term? We think we're gonna get a long way with that. If you look at the target group, it is a restriction, the maximation of that vi for those who have been punished for more than six years. That's where those two years pay up. If you look at the average duration of the probation period and the monitoring pathways, you'll end up at one and a half to two years. That's where the vast majority of those trajectories fall. It must also be said that the intensity of supervision is decreasing during that time. I believe that it was a professor of probation from Amsterdam who said that six months after the release the supervision is decreasing, that if everything is going according to plan, then it is a kind of natural course. That is one of the reasons why we can get out of our way with those two years, even if you look at the broader context of the legislative proposal. This bill not only limits the duration of the vi, but also does something in the run-up to conditional release, for example a strong extension of the very limited security regime. This means that prisoners who show good behavior are already given great freedoms during the day's imprisonment, for example working outside the walls, so that you actually only come back to sleep in the evening. If you consider that as a whole, the run-up to the vi plus those two years, then I think you have found a very good balance that is workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u6	I'm gonna take a look at the public survey the Minister was talking about. I believe that when you ask people in the Netherlands what it's like in prison, a lot of people will answer that it's a kind of Hilton Hotel and that it all has to be much stricter. If you ask the same question to people who really know what's going on in prison, you get a completely different kind of outcome. So I think it's a little lean when the government starts basing itself on public surveys to come up with proposals to maximize conditional release to two years. But I do have a question about that. Yesterday, in the debate, several of us have also pointed out that the judges may be going to anticipate this new vi and perhaps come with lower sentences, perhaps, because they think that such a long prison sentence in effect will be much longer for those who have been convicted. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u7	I have, of course, seen the input of a number of Members. There's two things going on there. Let me focus on why these two years. That's more than just a survey. A number of institutions, despite the fact that they were also critical of the maximisation of the vi, also recognise the need to change their social support. I think that is also an important element. It is both the views that live widely and the feeling in institutions that it is difficult to explain that for very long sentences it is actually true that the longer you are punished, you also have a longer vi. So that's the reason to do this. Then the question is whether I'm not afraid that this will lead to lower sentences. I have also indicated earlier that I am not afraid of this myself and that I also suspect that its effect is very limited, for a number of reasons. I read that some of the parties indicate that there may be a risk. So they're not saying "that's gonna happen," they're pointing out that risk. Previous adjustments to conditional release also alerted for a similar effect. When the early release, which was really a digital right, was changed into conditional release, there were similar sounds. In retrospect, it was not found that such an effect would have occurred. Moreover, it is important for a judge to impose a punishment looking at the seriousness of the fact and the personal circumstances. In principle, the court is not asked to look at the execution of the sentence as such. That is, of course, quite difficult in today's practice, because it is not so now, I believe that Mrs Veldhoen mentioned earlier that it is automatic, that everyone is eligible for conditional release. A judge can therefore never, when he imposes his sentence, say: you will automatically be released after two thirds. Therefore, in conjunction with the fact that we are not changing the penalty ceilings, that we have also made it very clear that this is not intended to lead to lower penalties, I am confident that this phenomenon will not occur. The last time I checked, we were still living in a rule of law, where judges apply the law, looking at the letter of the law, but also at the purpose of the law as discussed by the legislator. I'm assuming judges will take that into account in their judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u8	Last night I indicated that I know that there are judges who are indeed looking at the actual outcome of the sentence imposed. That will not be all judges, but it happens and that makes sense in itself. My question to the Minister is: how is he going to monitor the impact of this proposal to change the system? For example, would he like to sit down with the Council of Justice to see how it will work out and, if necessary, to look at the review of the law to see if there would be any need for adjustments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u9	Yes. The answer to that is yes. Mrs Bezaan asked for that too. Keep your finger on the wrist there, because if that phenomenon occurs, it is an undesirable effect of this law. That would mean looking again at what we need to do to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u10	I basically referred to what the minister said about bringing the vi back to two years. Now there's been a debate about the judge. Let me see if that's all you're gonna say about that. Then I would like to discuss two points with you. Or will you come back to that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u11	Then perhaps you should be more specific about what you're referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u12	Whether the judge will punish otherwise in the future, or the penalties will be reduced in connection with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u13	No, I said what I wanted to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u14	I would like to raise two points. First of all, you say "two years is enough." I also pointed out yesterday that parole organisations, but also the RSJ and the Council of State, point out that two years is not enough if you look at good guidance and reintegration. You keep saying, "I think it's enough." I would like to ask you once again whether you could comment on what these important organisations say about this. They judge differently than you do. Can you back up your position on this point and include the criticisms that have been made? A second point that I would like to make, if I may, is that of justice. You say that there was no change in 2008. Looking back, I see that the landmarks were changed at the time. They were adjusted downwards because of the change that was made at the time. Can you respond to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u15	I look at the real effect of the ultimately imposed penalties. We see that this has not led to a decrease, although it has been warned. We need to focus on that. That was not the case. Now back to the legislator. I've been asked to respect the independence of the judge. I do that at all times. The other day we had a debate in which I was right in favour of it. I am also very much in favour of the legislator's primacy to see whether the intention of the legislation in practice is working in this way. This means that the law can be amended if this effect would occur. Then the critical notes that are placed at the two years. Mrs Veldhoen cites a number of contributions, including those of the Council of State, the RSJ and the probation. They have emerged either in the consultation or in the examination of the bill in the Lower House. After that, the bill was substantially amended. This is not so much in the maximation of those two years, but there has been a considerable increase in the route leading up to the vi. There is an extension of the ZBBI period and an extension of reintegration leave. In the administrative conversations I had with the parole board, they indicated that they could do well with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u16	I also indicated yesterday that the probation is still concerned about the two-year maxim period, as it turned out this week. I also referred yesterday to the possibility that the penalties will not fall. I gave the example of 22 or 30 years. In that case, penalties would increase by 36% compared to today if the judge still imposed 30 years instead of 22 years. You say the judge must apply the law. In the example, this actually means an increase of 36%. Is that the intention of the legislator? Is that what you're trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u17	The sentence will not change anything. The way the sentence is executed changes. The penalties will not be heavier, they will only be carried out in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u18	Mrs Veldhoen for the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u19	But de facto it means an increase in the sentence given the time someone is in detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u20	That's just the way you look at it. The intention of the bill is to see what time you need to get someone to return properly. The question is whether someone who received 30 years really needs ten years to be able to resocialize properly. There's a lot of question marks about that. I also find it difficult to place an explanation, a sense of justice and a sense of justice in the position that this group of prisoners gets the biggest discount. That's not necessary, and so it makes sense for you to limit it. At the same time, I think it is very good that behavior gets a more central place where you also reward good behavior more. It can also be a lever to ensure that sustainable behavior changes really take shape. You can earn freedoms, including for the vi. The vi becomes much more an individual decision. In the end, you have to ensure that someone whose sentence is entirely on it is at the end of the court's term of office, and has the best chance of getting back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u21	Still, about the public survey. The Minister knows the Wall against Violence. He was there last year. I was allowed to be at the opening of the monument. With my former colleague in the Lower House Van der Steur we often went to these kinds of meetings. When you talk to next of kin, you notice that they have a very different picture, different from what you would expect. It's also about retribution. The death penalty is passing. Life comes along. However, there are also many more nuanced reactions in the sense of: we do not want this to happen again, so it is no good for us if someone comes back on the street and it happens again. Then that public survey tells me less than the opinion of the people who actually had to deal with it. Has the Minister, also in talks with next of kin, asked what they think about it. My experience is that this image is often much more nuanced than the public survey shows in the sense of it all has to be harder and stricter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u22	I think Mr Janssen is right. I also think that these images also vary in society. Especially in the case of victims and next of kin, this is very nice because they have to get over something. These organisations have also responded to this bill. They have expressed their strong support for the limitation of vi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u23	These organizations say the Minister. I'm not talking about Victim Support and other organizations. I'm talking about people you're talking to directly when you're at the monument, for example. Until 2015 there was the foundation Aanstreken (Stichting Aanstreken). Martin Roos and Jack Keijzer have meant a lot for that. Jack Keijzer is still active. That's not an organization that sends a letter, but they're people you need to talk to and then have the conversation with. Did the Minister have those conversations, too? He also bases himself on the letters from organisations that are often more structured after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u24	No, I mean exactly these organizations to which Mr Janssen refers. Jack Keijzer sits at my table twice a year. His organization is actually an umbrella organisation for victims and survivors of serious violent crimes. He also responded to this proposal. He has indicated that he is happy with the changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u25	Mr Janssen for his third question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u26	Mr President, last but not least. Does the Minister agree with me that if paper reality does not become reality, it should not take too long to start talking again? Then he has to say it didn't work the way he thought it would. In practice, it's disappointing. This wasn't the answer. We're gonna have to do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u27	Absolutely. Regardless of this bill, I think you should always stay in conversation with victims and relatives, both with organisations and with individuals. I spend a lot of my time on that. It's the conversations that I get most energy and drive because you know what you're doing it for. So I'm gonna keep doing that one way or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u28	I'm gonna go back anyway. Thank you to the Minister for this answer and for the insight into where his drive comes from. However, in this legislative proposal, I spoke very specifically about the two-year deadline, which meets the vast majority of the eligible people, which is a much smaller part than the total number of punished people. I'll get that back from all the experts. But they all say, one by one, not only on paper, but also when you do a ring of bells, that they think it's really gonna wring in a small group. I would ask the Minister to look a little further than just the evaluation. The evaluation is in five years' time, while people who will be punished for example for seven years after this law enters into force just lose weight. So even if we conclude in the evaluation that there is a group for which it does not work, that evaluation will be too late. How does the Minister see that? And how does he see those words from the experts that it's probably just a handful, maybe a dozen? There are not many of them, but it would be annoying if they were affected by the bill that this minister is now defending with fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u29	I'm going to say something about the calculators, the risk groups and the non-customers. Moreover, I think that the evaluation is premature and not too late. This has to do with the fact that we are not going to see the effects of this bill until penalties are imposed, and then only at the end of those penalties because they are penalties for more than six years. If there is an effect there, this will not occur in the very short term. I rather think that in the longer term that will be five to ten years. But, of course, we need to keep our finger on the wrist and see what it takes to overcome any unwanted effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u30	I am referring now to a group other than the calculators, who receive the greatest punishment. Then two years is a small part of the whole. I am referring to the group which is already clear to experts that they need longer than those two years of vi to enter society properly, including in the new system. It is said that it is a small group, but they are there. That's what I'm talking about. I would ask the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse with that particular group. Make sure that the evaluation is not too late, because we want to prevent people from pouring out too early when we could have known that with each other and we could have done it by now. Make sure you pick up that signal in time. I would like to ask the Minister how he weighs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u31	I see that point, but we now also have a toolbox with which we can do something about it. The Long-Term Supervision Act has made it possible for a number of years to monitor for longer, even when a part of the sentence is over. This can be done by imposing a behavioral measure at the start of a sentence. We are also in the process of increasing awareness of this measure, which must be imposed on the conviction. But even where there is no residual sentence, it makes it possible to continue to supervise after the sentence. That's one of the things we can do about this. The other is an extension of the probationary period for those who are in vi and who still have a residual sentence, but for whom you want to extend supervision further. That too is a part of that law that can be applied specifically for this target group. At the same time, I agree with Mrs Bikker that we must always see if it is enough. If it is not enough, you need to look for other ways to perhaps come up with new measures or introduce them to keep a finger on the wrist for longer with this particular target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u32	I thank the Minister for being open to keeping his finger on the wrist at an earlier stage, in the longer term, throughout the entire journey from the moment the bill starts. On this point, however, I would specifically ask him to start discussions with the experts on what they will encounter before the evaluation in five years' time, for example in three or four years' time. Is the issue of these two years working as we had thought it up, or are the objections that we as senators are still hearing, I suspect that the minister who is also supposed to be in his department? I would attach great importance to this, because then the law will be in force and we can see if it all works out as the minister now thinks it works. Or are the experts right when they say they have a handful of people in mind who are going to go through the holes right now? Well, then there's still a chance of being made up about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u33	We just have to have that conversation, so I'm gonna admit it. Whether this two-year maximation really becomes problematic, we only know six years after the law enters into force. Only then will you gain experience with inmates who would otherwise have been granted parole for three or four years, but for whom it is now limited to two. Of course we shouldn't sit around and wait for it to happen. For example, if an authority says that we need an extra hook in the Long-Term Supervision Act that will make it possible to keep the reins even tighter specifically for this target group, I will come to your Chamber to make proposals. So this also gives us some time to start that conversation. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u34	Mrs. Bikker, your fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u35	I thank the Minister for his commitment to enter into that conversation. I would also ask him to return this matter to this Chamber. I really think those experts have seen before, even before they've accompanied people in real life on the street, whether they need two years or a little more time. But we'll see. I would therefore like to thank the Minister very much for his willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u36	I would like to ask the Minister a question about the relationship between the legislator and the judge, to which he has referred a number of words. At the time a suspect is found guilty, it is up to the judge to impose an appropriate penalty, taking into account criminal targets. In practice, this means, among other things: how long do you want someone to leave the street and end up in prison? If this bill comes into force, for long-term punishment, the net penalty will be longer. Now I seemed to hear the minister say: "Yes, that is actually the intention of this law. I even assume that the judge will not take that into account, because that is the primacy of the legislator. Should the judge do so, we might even have to think about other legislation." Did I understand the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u37	I have indicated what the purpose of this law is and what is not the purpose of this law. With regard to the concern expressed last night, I have indicated that if that occurs, that is a real point. For it is not intended that this will automatically lead to some kind of gross net calculation, as happened last night, that this will be calculated. I don't think that's gonna happen either, because at the moment, a judge can't indicate if someone's going on parole. First of all, I think it is important not to affect the independence of judges. They must apply the law with the law in hand and consider, for each individual case, what punishment fits what happened. At the same time, with this bill in hand, you have to consider what that macro means for imposed penalties. I don't have much concern about that, by the way. In recent years, you have seen that the judges have actually only started to punish more heavily, even after maximum sentences have been raised. In raising criminal limits, a judge can be expected to take this into account, because that is the political signal about the gravity or seriousness we attach to certain crimes. But even after that, you can see that judges take the social sentiment with them. We monitor this every year and can therefore quite easily track what it means. I think you're gonna have to take this bill in hand and see if things happen that we didn't expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u38	Can the Minister confirm that the purpose of this bill is not to increase penalties, even as a matter of fact? Does that decision remain for the judge, is it really in the judicial domain and will there be no repair legislation if the judge says that this means that, in the case of long-term punishment, we are actually going to take less time to punish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u39	The purpose of this proposal is to change enforcement, not the level of punishment and not the imposition of penalties. That means that if this bill does have an effect on the level of punishment or the imposition of penalties, you have to watch how you appreciate it and how you deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u40	Mr Recourt, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u41	The minister stays a little vague here, because you can appreciate it both ways. You can say: the imposition of heavier penalties was not meant to be reduced, so we are going to take action on that. The purpose of my question is precisely the opposite. I'm expecting an adjustment. I think that makes a lot of sense, given the primacy of the judge. He'll see what an appropriate punishment is and see how long someone is actually off the street. I think it is an appropriate point for my group. If the Minister assumes that he will make adjustments if the judges start to punish less severely in the case of serious crimes, I think that is very undesirable. I want to keep the room in front of the judge as it is: the judge will see how long someone is net off the street. If the Minister remains vague about that, it is something that weighs negatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u42	I hear what Mr Recourt is saying. I also said something about the intention of the bill. If he says "I'm in favour of this bill, because the shortening of the vi leads to a lower penalty for serious facts and that's the reason for my party to be excited about this bill," I'd be a little... Let me put it this way: that is not the intention of this bill. The intention of this bill is that you adjust the execution and not the imposition of penalties or the measure of punishment. This means that there will be some changes in enforcement, that the time of conditional release will come later, which does not mean that the sentence will come to an end, because also the vi-period is actually part of the sentence, we must not forget that. It's not a penalty discount, it's a parole. So there are conditions you have to meet. It's an integral part of the sentence. I myself have indicated that I think it is important to see what the effect of this bill is, including the level of punishment and the imposition of penalties. If that really shows significant changes, is it not strange that we are having another debate on this? You say: I do not want another debate to take place here. Well, Mrs. Bezaan probably does. Then it's up to me or me, I don't know if I'll still be there to weigh my successor and possibly see if that leads to proposals. We do so on many other fronts, by the way. If a social view on certain offences changes, this can also lead to, for example, a change in criminal limits. Look, for example, at the law of vice, which we are currently busy with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u43	I note that the Minister continues to ignore the fact that the case-law itself says that a gross net weighting is being made. Anyway, I'm gonna leave you with that observation. I would like to go back to those two years and the fact that the Minister says that the Act allows long-term supervision. Firstly, I do not hear the Minister say, and I believe that this supervision can only be imposed if someone goes with vi, even if it is only one day. Otherwise there will be no long-term monitoring. That's one part of my question. The second part is the transitional right. Long-term surveillance is often very important in sex cases. In that case, the Long-Term Supervision Act often does not provide a solution in my view. If the fact has been committed before 2018 and the ruling follows after the entry into force of this law, I do not think that long-term supervision can take place. Maybe the Minister can respond to that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u44	The Long-Term Supervision Act can be applied to convictions that take place after the Long-Term Supervision Act has entered into force. It has been in operation for a number of years now and judges can involve him in the imposition of a penalty. That works both ways. It offers the possibility to extend the probationary period at parole while there is still a remaining criminal record. Suppose someone goes with vi and has two more years in which he could possibly be attached. It used to end after two years, and now you can extend that probation. In the case of very serious crimes, you can even extend it indefinitely. That's good, because then you keep a stick behind the door for a long time. That doesn't change with this bill. It's gonna stay that way. The second is that the Law makes it possible for a judge to impose an additional measure in the case of convictions, a so-called behavioral influence measure, a gvm: a behavioral influence... It's complicated. That is also possible. This is already possible and will be possible after the entry into force of this law. And that measure makes it possible to impose additional supervision conditions, even after the vi-period has ended and even if there is a residual penalty. One of the reasons why we are now working very hard to bring this measure to the attention of officers and judges is because we want them to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u45	The Long-Term Supervision Act entered into force in 2018. We agree that long-term supervision of the facts that have been carried out for this purpose is already lacking. Another point is that GBM. It can only be imposed in the case of very serious crimes of violence and sexual harassment, rather than in the case of drug crime, for which long prison sentences are also imposed. It is also a limited category. Can you go back to the point that I made that someone must have gone with vi for at least one day? No long-term monitoring can be imposed on non-willers and non-cannons, who may not be able to do so at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u46	No, but neither can the old system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u47	Mrs. Veldhoen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u48	But in the current system someone can have six or ten years of vi and then he runs the entire period on the leash of probation, which is a very clear amount-influenced effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u49	But this is, of course, a very strange reasoning. Mrs. Veldhoen says you need one day of vi. Suppose someone shows very bad behavior. He doesn't want to, is just aggressive et cetera, et cetera. It's said, you don't get a vi, so you're gonna be your whole sentence, to the end, inside out. You'll be out of prison and you won't be able to extend your vi, Mrs Veldhoen has a point. But it is now, isn't it? Now there are also aggressive people who don't go with vi and are inside until the end of the ride? Well, then you don't have a chance to extend it now, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u50	Mrs. Veldhoen, last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u51	Well, those who choose to do that at six or ten years of vi are counting on one hand, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u52	But they're here. You turned it in yourself. Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to go into the risk groups after all. There are a number of categories to be distinguished. There are target groups you say there is still a social risk at the end of the sentence. Mr Cliteur cited this example. Sometimes there's a relationship with terrorism. Then there is the concern expressed by a number of institutions: will the reduction in rational calculation behaviour not increase? The third is: how do you deal with the non-cannons, people who may want to go straight, but simply don't have the ability to get there in a simple way? I am now hesitant whether to go into the depths or to allow the President Mrs De Blécourt to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u53	I do not hesitate: Mrs De Blécourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister. Researcher Frank van Tulder, who is also working at the Council of Justice, has done research and published the results in 2019 in the Magazine for Justice and Punishment. This shows that the judges have become more severely punished in the last 20 years. He says that this happened because the judge responds to the social call for stricter penalties. Then it seems illogical to me that judges should now start to punish less severely as a result of this law. Does the Minister agree with me? Then it seems illogical to me that judges should now start to punish less severely as a result of this law. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u55	This is exactly the research I have just referred to. So I don't expect judges to overcalculate this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u57	But, of course, we have to keep our finger on the wrist. Then we must have an open debate on this and look at it. Then I'm going to go into some of those risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u58	Let's get to the point of order. We're getting a lot of interruptions. You're still in block one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u59	I'm still in block 1, but it's getting good, Mr. Chairman, because we're jumping to different parts. So I'm gonna be able to get through it faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u60	So you also deal with a number of things from other cubes as a result of the interruptions. I would ask Members to limit the interruptions as much as possible, where possible, to brief explanatory questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Then the Minister will be able to reply briefly. Mrs. Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you're saying this to the wrong person, because this is just my first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u62	I told the Members in general, Mrs Bezaan, certainly not specifically to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u63	I have a question that follows on from Mrs De Blécourt's question. In my first term, I asked if the Minister could say that within one year of the entry into force of this new law, he could come forward with a substantiated report to show whether or not this law has led to lower penalties. You are assuming that this is not the case, but I would like you to promise that, because at least there will be evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u64	I can do that because every year we map out the penalties imposed. We also see it if that leads to changes and then I will come back to that, of course. Again, I don't think it will happen, but we always have an instrument to keep our finger on the wrist if something happens that we didn't really expect or wouldn't have hoped for. Then we'll have to weigh that up again and look at it. So I can make that commitment. Mr. Chairman. Well, then I'm gonna go into the risk groups. I understand that there is a hesitation, not only in the Chamber but also in a number of bodies. The hesitation has to do with the fact that shortening the VI can make it more attractive for prisoners to say: I will finish my sentence; I will skip my conditional release, because then I will have my entire sentence on it and then I will no longer have to walk on the leash of probation after the end of the sentence because I no longer have a remaining sentence that they can withdraw. The fact that this will occur is a very hypothetical view. We are talking about long prison sentences, in small numbers about 100 per year, but substantially in terms of duration. This means that someone chooses to serve his sentence in a very sober prison regime and chooses to stay behind bars for two more years, because he may not have any probation supervision after that, even now the question is whether that probation period will be extended. That also calls for a judicial review. Extension of the probationary period is far from complete. I don't think people prefer that one-two-three. These things are sometimes called in a whim. I believe that one case has ever been known where this has occurred. But also the people who work in the prison system are very much trained and trained to motivate prisoners to show good behavior and work on their future. Precisely that motivating treatment can help to point out to these people that this kind of calculating behavior is very unwise and very stupid and also very little in the sense that you are just stuck longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u65	Very briefly. I am going to remind the Minister once again that all the organisations involved, all the experts working with these people, say that that risk is indeed real. So I ask the Minister to come up with more than just one statement: I do not believe that that will happen, because then someone will be in a sober regime for a very long time. I'd like a basis with facts that support that judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u66	I'm telling you, it's not happening right now. Even now, there are vi's that don't last longer than two years. So even now you could say that it already pays for someone who might have a vi of one and a half years because he has a sentence of four and a half years, or a vi of two years because he has a sentence of six years to say: you know what, I don't go out with my vi after four years, because then I'm off probation. The phenomenon just doesn't occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u67	No, but we're about to have another reality. That's one thing, because then there's a maximation of two years. I note that I still do not hear any support for the statement, unlike all those organisations that say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u68	But then Mrs Veldhoen must be open to the facts and to the arguments. I'm telling you, there's been... There are more vi's from one and a half to two years than there are vi's of ten years, just because many more penalties are imposed in the range between four and six years. So we have a lot of experience with what it does to inmates who come out after four years or five years and then have for one to two years a rest of their sentence. There too, you should see that calculative behavior. Experience just shows it doesn't happen. So it's okay. I fully understand that all kinds of bodies point out to us the possible undesirable effects of legislation. That's their role, too. I also think that we should look at this impact in the evaluation, but I am much more confident about it than Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u69	Well, all kinds of agencies are the state's attorney's office, the court hearing and the parole hearing. So it's not the least of them. It is the people who know the target group well, I would say. I share with the Minister that it will be a very small group, but just the group of which I find most risky if they enter without probation and without vi society. Yesterday I indicated that this group has a long time to go; so we can see in time that these people are absolutely unmotivated to ever be eligible for it. Can the Minister promise that he will take action to close this gap immediately in the five-yearly evaluation, if he receives the signal that the risk of these calculators would be unabated by these bodies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u70	Yeah, absolutely, because we don't want this. I do not think the effect will occur, but if there is a risk and it is real and it is manifest, we must take action on it. For this group also applies that the Long-Term Supervision Act offers a helpline here of course. This does not apply so much to the extension of the probationary period, because this can only be done if there is a residual sentence. Suppose a judge has someone in front of him who has committed serious crimes and who may have shown several times that he doesn't want to improve his life, and chances are that if he goes back to prison he will either calculate or simply show very bad behavior, which means he won't qualify for the VI. By the way, this is already the case in part: 10% does not go with vi. Then there will also be an end to the sentence at some point without any remaining penalty. In such a case, it seems perfectly logical to me that a judge should now use the official term or the jargon term, which imposes an independent behavioral restriction of freedom, a CSM, to ensure that you still have a hook at the end of a sentence to continue that supervision. We must then consider whether that is sufficient or whether more is needed if the calculating behaviour is to occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u71	I would like to thank the Minister for that commitment, and I am very keen that this is given a very clear place in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u72	Sure. Mr. Chairman. I have already said something about the possibilities of the Long-Term Monitoring Act. Across the street, I have been questioned several times about the instrument of the behavioral and liberty-taking measure. They say: yes, it is nice that the instrument is there, but the question is whether it is being applied. So we are now working with probation, with OM and with ZM to bring it to the fore and all that time and energy that have gone into it are also paying off. We see that organisations concerned have recently indicated that there is an increase in the use of the behavioural and freedom-limiting measure. Mrs De Blécourt asked me to keep the Chamber informed as to whether this development is continuing. I'll admit it. I will. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take a closer look at Mr Cliteur's point, because these are the calculators. You also have a group of inmates who do not calculate but whose end of the sentence is in sight, and which we have to observe is that there is still a social risk that someone who sends you out will go wrong. Mr Cliteur asked why the explanatory statement did not give any more attention to the problems of terrorism and jihadism, where this could very well occur. The reason for this is that this is not terrorism legislation but it is broader. We have had a number of discussions, for example on the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism, which really zooms in on that. So we really have more than just this law to do something about this phenomenon. But the other way around is the underlying idea of this bill that you look much more at risks in the possible granting of leave and conditional release. It is a bit of a semantic discussion in which we always end up, whether the vi is an automatism or not. The law says: it's legal; the prosecution can now refer it to the court to waive it if necessary. In practice, we see that this leads to the fact that a lot of professionals actually see it as a rather hard date to work towards. In a tragic case like Michael P.'s or Philip O's. You can see the metro murder coming back over and over again. That is why I think it is important to consider what the social risk is for every inmate at the moment. What kind of behavior change has anyone shown? What are the victim interests that still play a role in this? Of course, you will also bring with you those elements, as suggested by Mr Cliteur. I would like to mention what we are already doing in the special terrorist departments in two places in the Netherlands to also work on deradicalisation. That is quite impressive to see, and at the same time there are no programmes of which we say beforehand: if you apply that, then success is assured. We had the discussion yesterday about Jason W. and some others. Yes, despite a lot of efforts, you can see that some are really coming straight, seeing the light again, so to speak, and others are really stuck in very bad and dangerous ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u73	I would like to thank the Minister for, at least in part, answering my question and my concerns about jihadist terrorism. I would also like to ask the Minister if he would like to go into a little more detail. I do not know if he was going to do so, but he would say this to the fact that we are dealing here with a relatively new category of people, offenders of belief with a really deep-seated ideology, which was also discussed yesterday in the exchange of views with Mr Dittrich. These people need a very special program, don't they? It can't be that they just happen to see the good movies, like they did last night in Dittrich's intervention? We have to do something with that. So we have to make sure that they get that ideology out of their head somehow. We need to develop some sort of cultural cóntra-terrorism programme. If we do not do that, jihadist terrorism, I expect, will remain as great a challenge for the future as it has been in the past 20 years. It's only grown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u74	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u75	Whether the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u76	Mr Cliteur asks: do you agree that extra and specific attention should be paid to this? The answer to that is "yes." But I also want to tell him that a lot is happening there too. Someone convicted of a terrorist offence doesn't go to a regular department. It goes to Vught or Rotterdam. There's special terrorist departments. They are small-scale, there are the very best professionals, there are working very hard with numerous deradicalisation experts and programmes. The complexity is, it's not a matter of "you set up a program and then you know after six years that it's okay." We can see that it strikes some people, that it makes some think, but that some really persist in those very ideological, dangerously motivated ideas. This bill gives you a little more tools to do something about it. The same applies to the Long-Term Supervision Act. Last week, I sent a letter to the House of Representatives with my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, with the intention that we would also like to amend this Act on long-term supervision and make it specific that it is not just a question of monitoring serious violence and sexual crimes, but also of this type of crime. For those cases that end up going out again because their punishment is on them again, in which you have different degrees, even when it comes to terrorist crimes, you can call them "on" there is also a very specialised team around parole, municipalities and all kinds of experts. With various possibilities and intelligence in the hindquarters, to keep track of how these kinds of punished terrorists behave, and to prevent and, where necessary, to intervene early when things go wrong. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to refer to the non-cannons, because we were talking about the calculators and we talked about convicted terrorists. But I think this is the really huge group that we are dealing with in the prison system. People who have made a jar of their lives, but sometimes also had a lot of bad luck in life, who, on top of having a conviction on their pants, are addicted, in debt, are slightly intellectually limited, you name it. What we are doing within this system is asking them to participate in the next step. Eventually, we can't do it for them. So that also requires this group to be willing to take responsibility. I also mentioned in my general introduction something about an outstretched hand, a greater appeal to good citizenship, improving your life. That also requires help, it also requires support and it also demands that you expand a path, make plans that you can say: that's real for what you can do. So don't set the bar unnecessarily high, knowing that no one can ever get past it. It is precisely this personal approach that makes it possible to do so. As soon as someone comes in, from day one, you can watch "who do I have in front of me?'. We have withdrawn the probation from the institutions, which can help with that. You can also screen much more with scientific instruments nowadays, see much more if there is a great chance of a slightly intellectual disability in someone, and then you can set your goals to that. With custom behavioral goals on the one hand, but also with more focused and adapted guidance and support on the other hand, I think you can also give this group the control to take steps to reduce the chance of repetition and the chance that you end up on the bad path. It means you'll say for one: you're perfectly capable of talking to an employer on your own about a job you need as soon as you go out; others will just need a lot more help, so much more support. The same applies to care, the same applies to the elimination of debts, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Mr. Chairman. I think I've finished the first block with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u77	I would like to ask the Minister to deal more specifically with that group of slightly intellectually limited, the last group we were just talking about. There is a very clear indication of what research shows, that there really is a need for high-quality support, if we are to prevent them from getting into the cooperative position out of ignorance. The concerns are great or that gets back in order in terms of staff. We are talking about sufficient staff, but also about the quality of the staff, with sufficient probation and adequate measures. There are multiple pilots. Can the Minister show how this is going to get better in structural terms and what he intends to do about it? I also asked him in my first term whether he would like to comment on the financial aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u78	Let's have the whole trip. This requires a lot of knowledge and skill from the people who work in the prison system. In part, we bring in that knowledge and skill. We had a strict cut between DJI, the prison system on the one hand, and resocializing on the other. Your sentence is over, and now you're going to resocialize and we're going to hand you over to parole, a community or some other agency. That's the line we're gonna want to gamble out a little bit. If we no longer want to start resocialising at the end of the sentence, but from day one, this also requires the involvement of these organisations from day one. So you also need to be able to bring in the care, the skills and the knowledge that helps. That's one of the things we do. Two is a broader task, which we say throughout the criminal justice chain: we know that a significant part is slightly intellectually limited and has an IQ below 80 or 75. Only the people who work there do not always know exactly what that means and why someone reacts in a certain way. We had a nice debate yesterday about this: is that rational? No, that's often not rational. So what we are trying to do is to make this whole criminal justice chain more Ivb proof. We train people and train them to show them what that actually means. We also do this with new techniques and tools, by just putting them in a setting, of "this is someone with a layer of IQ; see how these things take it that way." We've freed up money to invest in that humanization and training, 100 million in four years. Some of these costs are training costs, some of them are resources that are needed to replace the people you take out of the work processes. In addition, there are a number of pilots that Mrs Bikker refers to. I hope and expect a number of promising methods to emerge from these pilots. There are also means from the coalition agreement not only to run numerous pilots now, but at some point also to choose from those pilots some that seem to us to be the most promising and what we want to go on with. That's actually the point. A pilot is a pilot and it has to end, but you want to roll out good lessons from it. I can certainly make that commitment. What are the targets? So we try to work in a number of these ways, for example much more standard screening on entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u79	Thank you to the Minister for that commitment. I would like to make him a little more specific and a little deeper. The clarification is when the Minister wants to give insight into what he gets out of these pilots and how he will continue to do so in a structural manner. I can imagine that this will be Prince's Day next year, as was requested at least in the first term. I do not know whether this minister will be present or his successor, but we will all welcome him here. That's about timing. I would also like to ask the Minister to show what is really necessary in order to carry it on in a structural manner, so that we can see what is working on these pilots and what we are taking over or not. I'm asking him to argue that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u80	It's easy for me to promise. Whether it's exactly Prince's Day or somewhere... those pilots, of course, have a maturity. They were deployed one and a half years ago or two years ago, and most of them run for two or three years. Once that's done, you need to get it evaluated properly. So if that's in the autumn or around Princess Day next year, I'd like to come back to you and show you what it's done, what works and what doesn't work, and with the elements that work, we'd like to go on in sister and such. I think or hope that meets Mrs Bikker's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u81	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u82	That will do, thank you for that. Just one small point, then. I would find it really intricate if the pilots were to stop and we would have to wait a while for new funding to continue. If the Minister can promise to do this, and that there will be no hole, then I am a satisfied man.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u83	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u84	Minister, thank you for taking care of whether there is sufficient capacity. I assume you're still going into how that punishment and reward goes exactly and who's going to do it. There have been separate questions about that, and I think that will still be the case. But now the capacity. So 100 million has been made available to ensure that there can actually be tailor-made work and that re-socialisation can also go intramurally with traps and standing up. Can you clarify that? What does that mean in practice? How much more time does it take to actually guide someone with a low IQ who is very difficult to tackle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u85	I will come back to this in more detail later, because we have analysed what it requires if you want to give this bill a good hand and feet. What does it ask for money, what in terms of humanization, by the way, in different places? There's some extras going to the D.A.'s office for some of those review stuff in the front, but there's also extra money going to the parole board and extra money going to the D.J.I. to have people on the ground to do this kind of thing, on top of what's already happening. After all, we are already engaged in training and mentoring and rehabilitation. This is a shovel on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u86	Do I understand how you're gonna get back to how we're gonna split up the $100 million? My fear is a bit that the 100 million goes to job vacancies that have to be filled or at least to everything, except to the people who are actually involved, namely those who are in direct contact with those prisoners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u87	Financially, where's that money going? You could say it goes to three big goals. This bill means that you need more capacity here and there, and that costs money. That is included in the estimate, so it is provided for, also financially. The second is that in places you need more people structurally to provide that care. Structural money has been made available for this from the envelope contained in the coalition agreement to bring the recidivism down a little bit. The third is the training budget, but at least for now it is occasional. We actually want to give the people we have inside a little more. That's what the $100 million was made available for. That amount is divided into 25 million in four years. We've been working on that for two years now, and we've got two more years to go. So that is not going to fill a gap here and there, but is really meant for training, for guiding these people, also for promoting security, which is a major issue in institutions. I can assure you we won't get away with it if we don't. The unions are on top of this. We have made a covenant with all the unions, in which this money has been released, and those unions keep us fairly sharp and up-to-date. They also check whether those funds are spent on the things we intended them for and what we agreed to. So those are just the three big things that cost money and are now foreseen. I shall come back to that in a little more detail in block 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u88	Minister, you're still on block one? Or is that almost done now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u89	I've completed block one, Mr. Chairman. Your room keeps me busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u90	That's why I'm looking at the time. I would ask Members to really limit the interruptions to simple, short questions, as it says in the Rules of Procedure. You will all have a second term to make your follow-up and statements. I now give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I hear you very well. One very short question. Can you also comment on the capacity and the need for recruitment in terms of the resources allocated, and also on whether the people who are required to carry out this work can be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u92	The whole three-three is about this. I'll come back to what we do with recruitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u94	That's good. We've had vi now. A further point was made on the division of tasks between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge. In fact, the question of principle was: why was it deposited with the Public Prosecutor's Office? There's a change in the new system. The vi is no longer granted automatically, but becomes an independent decision-making moment. This amendment also calls for a new balance in the division of roles between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge, because you not only ask for a judgment when you do not grant it, but actually for an individual judgment each time. So it's not about the 10% deviation; you have to make a decision for all prisoners now. So we are also talking about a multitude of decisions. In the current system, the non-granting of conditional release is still a derogation from a legal right, which makes sense for you to present that standard to the judge. This is different in the system proposed now. Moreover, it would be a huge burden on the judicial capacity if, in any case, it had to be submitted to a court, including the positive decision. In the new situation, the Public Prosecutor's Office decides on the provision of services. I think the D.A.'s office is perfectly capable of that. I would like to point out that, in the current regime too, the consideration of the public prosecutor is already leading. It is not only in the present system that the public prosecutor decides whether an application for postponement or suspension of the licence should be made; at present it also decides on the special conditions to be imposed without the intervention of the court. The D.A.'s office has thus already acquired extensive knowledge and experience. Mrs De Blécourt asked about the new powers of the Public Prosecutor to withdraw the vi when the conditions are violated. Previously, the judge decided on the withdrawal on the application of the D.A. In the new system, in which the prosecution decides on granting the VI, it is logical that the prosecution also decides on its withdrawal when the convicted person does not comply with conditions. I've just indicated that the D.A.'s office is pretty well equipped for that. Now that the public prosecutor in the new system decides on the withdrawal entirely, it is also possible to respond more quickly to violation of conditions. This is sometimes important, because this can also lead to danger. The result of the decision of withdrawal is that the sentenced person is rebarred, but this is done entirely within the framework of the prison sentence imposed by the judge. There is therefore no new detention title. It's about another execution of the sentence. Nevertheless, I think it is important for the convicted person to be able to ask a judge to get involved in the case. That is why I have made it possible for the convicted person to object to the withdrawal of the Vi from the court. Then the question is, how does the judge assess it? A number of members asked whether the marginal test should be in criminal law. I would rather not talk about a marginal test myself, because I find that term confusing. I also note that the Council of State no longer uses this term. The judge shall carry out a reasonable test and shall examine whether the Public Prosecutor's Office has reasonably been able to reach his decision in the consideration of the interests concerned. A distinction should be made between who takes the decision and how intensive that decision is assessed by the court. I just indicated that the D.A.'s office is doing the first one. This has been expressed in the law by stating that the court is examining whether the public prosecutor has been able to reach a reasonable decision when considering the interests in question. It also states in the law that in principle the judge does not make a decision on the vi, but checks the decision of the prosecutor on the vi. This is often the case in the chapter of criminal proceedings, which you see when the prosecutor or sometimes the minister makes decisions which can then be appealed to in order to ensure the legal protection of the detainees. For example, take the appeal to the RSJ about the Minister's decision on participation in the penitentiary program or leave, or the transfer of a prisoner from detention to a TBS institution. Another example is the decision of the Public Prosecutor in the context of community service to apply replacement detention. There are many examples where you see that in the execution of the sentence the decision is taken by the Ministry or the Public Prosecutor with an appeal for the persons concerned. Mr Rietkerk asked about the intensity. How hard is it? Is the judge holding back or intensifying? I'm gonna stay away from the whole term "marginal." The suspension or adjustment of the vi is not a punitive sanction, but concerns the method of enforcement of the sentence. In the new system there is more room for customization and a personalised approach. The prosecution shall also be placed in a position to do so. It is appropriate for the court to exercise a certain restraint in the review of that decision. But that does not alter the fact that there may be cases in which the judge finds that the D.A., considering everything, should have decided differently, for example because it based itself on wrong facts. I believe that Mr Rietkerk cited that example. In such cases, the judge has the room to decide that the prisoner must be released on parole. In the case law of the European Court of Justice, we see a solid line in this. I therefore believe that the ECHR is not being considered too lightly, but that it fits in rather well because it is not a question of imposing sanctions but of implementing sanctions. Mr Rietkerk specifically commented on some of the figures in the reports. This shows that in 12% to 24% the Office is unsuccessful in a claim for failure to comply. Mr Rietkerk asked: why is that? He believes that these figures should not apply to all the decisions of the D.A.'s office. I totally agree with him. I already know that this is not going to happen, because the vast majority of the decisions will not be a negative decision, but a granting decision. In that case, I do not suspect that prisoners will appeal to a judge or object to it. This very specific group to which Mr Rietkerk is asking is such small numbers that I find it difficult to say anything about the percentages. I believe that in 2014 there were only four outstanding claims. In 2015, there were seven and five in 2016. But you must always, as the Public Prosecutor's Office, come to a balance that you can then do with a judge. We will follow in the evaluation how that works. I also think it's in the public prosecutor's interest to do that in a good way, because you don't want to get wet in the end. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the criteria used. In fact, there are three things: the behaviour of a prisoner, the risks of society and the importance of the victims. All three criteria will be further developed. Let me start with behavior. This is now being refined further, also in order to make it workable in practice and to make implementation feasible in the near future. What's desirable behavior? What's unwanted behavior? What behavior are we putting on green and what behavior on red? Then we have to think about things about aggression, treatment, participation and so on. If you make a mistake once, it doesn't mean you have to start at zero again or it immediately crosses your entire detention period. We are trying to find a proper balance-sheet framework that is fair and as equal as possible between all the institutions. The second concerns the risks. Mr Cliteur asked for that. Mr Otten also asked about this, and more specifically about the risk screening that is being carried out. We are getting more and more interested in acceptable forms of risk assessment at the time when you are going to offer someone freedoms, and I also think that they should be applied more and more. You now have the scientific risk assessment, for example in the case of violent and sexual crimes. I believe that this standard should be applied. As a result of the terrible case involving Michael P., we have said that this should actually be done by default with these serious crimes, but you also want to have something more pleasing for the lighter crimes. That's being tested right now. The risk screener during detention is reduced several times and is involved in making a decision granting freedoms. At the moment, this instrument is being refined further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u95	I have a question about these risks. You introduced the new RISc system to better assess the risks. The Minister himself indicated that 50% of the cases were repeated. At least that's what it's about, so it can actually be even higher. How are you going to better assess this in this new RISc model? How are we going to improve that, I will ask the Minister through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u96	What we are trying to do is to continue to improve that valuation. You have a number of heavy, all RISc and also focused on specific crimes. For example, in the case of sex crimes, you have models, valuations, which are specific to that crime: what is the risk of someone falling into the same unwanted behavior? Actually, you want to do that wider, not only for sex offenders but also for others. We also try to look for lighter forms of risk assessment. The risk assessment you asked for yesterday is an example of that. I would like to make two points. An assessment remains an assessment. Once you say "this is someone we consider likely to commit another very serious crime," so chance times impact, that might be a reason to say that he should just sit down and not go on parole. But even if you say, even in the case of more serious crimes, "we don't think there's much chance of someone repeating themselves again," the odds are never zero. When it comes to lighter crimes, you have to look at it differently in that sum of probability times impact. So it's always the balance, the dilemma logic: "Am I going to work with someone to get him back on a path to society in order to achieve a safe return, or do we find the risk so high that we want him to finish his sentence?" But that again has the adverse effect that you can do less about socialization. Because once the sentence is over, you'll fall back on the possibilities of the Long-Term Supervision Act, and I'd rather start earlier, during the detention phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u97	That was actually exactly what my question is looking at. Safety for society is also important to my group. Has that risk model also taken into account the possibility of anyone who is considered to be at great risk being unguided on the streets, which is also a risk? Is the risk of not giving leave included in the risk model?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u98	No, that's not in the model, but that's in the application of the model. It's always the trade-off. By the way, this is happening now, because not everyone gets vi. For someone who exhibits abnormal behavior, who exhibits dangerous behavior, the sentence is at some point in time. Then, even though the risk is high, it can pay to say: we take the last few months or six months to make sure that you can start a job somewhere or that you have contact with the municipality, so that you have a roof over your head and a benefit when you go outside; we are sure that if you don't, the chance of repetition is even greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u99	But let's be specific. If the outcome of the risk model is "don't do it, this is a risk," then there is still the freedom to say: do it, because the risk of someone being thrown out unguided is higher. That's the room the professionals have in their consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u100	Yes. Questions have also been asked about the victim's interests, but I have already dealt with this in part, and my impression is also in my reply to both Mr Recourt and Mrs De Blécourt. It is not just a question of "do you agree that the suspect of a fact..." There will also be victims and next of kin who say no, but it is not enough to take that with them. On the one hand, we look at what it means for physical safety, but also at polite safety. It can, for example, play a role in imposing special conditions: prohibitions or prohibitions on territories. Or the point Mr Rietveld referred to: in the case of serious crimes, for example, can you fall back on the imposition of a move order, so that you cannot just live near the victim or the next of kin of the crime committed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u101	My point yesterday was that the victim's data may also be entered in the file that may be available to the convicted person, and vice versa. My question was how to deal with that. Can that be properly shielded? We will not want to see some kind of secondary victim victim victim victimisation if it turns out that personal data, address data or whatever, become known to the convicted person. So I'd like a response from the Minister: how to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u102	Totally. It is hard worked on, but it is a process of falling and getting up. The criminal records are so complicated and lie in different places. We're working on filtering out the address records, the victim's records. I also find it painful to see that these data sometimes land on the defence sign of the prisoner and that it makes a victim feel even more unsafe than he already felt. Victim care is working very hard on this, but this is not something we have arranged from today to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u103	fBut can the Minister indicate specifically and specifically that in the evaluation that has been promised, the pulse is being kept on this point and that the Chamber is being reported on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u104	Yeah, I do, but I'm doing that a long time before the evaluation. This is one of the key elements in the multi-annual victim care. I think we want to offer a number of solutions by the autumn that can help to prevent the sharing of victims' data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u105	I thank the Minister for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u106	Mr. Rietkérk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u107	When it comes to victims, there are administrative and criminal instruments and opportunities. My question concerns the survivors of victims, often in serious crimes, with severe penalties. Does the Minister consider that the administrative and criminal possibilities are sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u108	Yeah, I think so right now. The question is whether they are always applied. The possibilities have been widened with the Long-Term Monitoring Act. We're only working with this new law for a short time and the effect of it can't be seen until someone's punished. From a GVM that is now imposed on, for example, a 15-year life crime, you can only see how it works in practice in 15 years' time. Then there's the possibility of saying to someone, "You can't live here anymore." Or: you can't go near it anymore. Also following a number of discussions on the other side with Mrs Van Toorenburg, for example, we have looked at the move order, which goes quite far. That could be one of the conditions you take under the GVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u109	Then specifically about the survivors of the victims: the administrative possibilities. You call it moving orders, the obligation to move, the restraining order, the restraining order. That goes a long way, but can the Minister indicate in his evaluation or report to this Chamber whether mayors have sufficient opportunities, both administrative and criminal, to take the right measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u110	Sure. I think it will have to be given a place not only in one of the evaluations of this law, but in particular in the evaluation of the Wlt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u111	My group considers it important to be able to monitor how the interests of victims and survivors are taken into account in the implementation of the grant of vi. The VVD asks the Minister if it is possible to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u112	Sure. I will. I think that we should look at how risk assessment is carried out and how it works in terms of assessment of behaviour and the weighting of victim interests. A distinction must be made. When a victim says, "I don't want the killer to get out," you actually come home from a cold carnival, and you can't. But you can "take into account" even in the imposition of conditions. I would very much like to see in the evaluation how that worked out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u113	Thank you for the commitment, I say through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u114	Following this. The Written Round discussed whether or not the granting of vi would be re-used as a fee if the victim's interests were to be taken into account in a certain way. The Minister said that this was in no way the intention and that the victims' interests would play a particular role in imposing these special conditions. So I was wondering whether the evaluation would take account of the priority given to the fee or special conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u115	I'll admit it. There is, of course, a conflict between the risk pillar and the victim pillar. If the risk of the weather is greater, it also has an impact on the victim. There's some kind of crosspollination in there. But I'm sure I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u116	Minister, let me take a look at the time. How much longer do you think you'll need? You have three more cubes, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u117	I've got two more after this, and I'm almost done with this one. Maybe I can just finish, because some questions have been asked about recovery activities. There have been a number of fine initiatives mentioned by Mr Recourt, whom I wholeheartedly support and which can be given a very nice place in them. It also shows something about showing good behavior again, expressing regret, etc. The same applies to the payment of compensation. Mr Otten asked for this and referred to France. Besides, you always have to look at the non-willers and the non-cannons. As soon as you say that you always have to be reimbursed before you qualify for VI at all, I think that people in debt really just get caught up. But if there is a possibility between compensation for the damage, but there is real unwillingness, this falls into the 'victim's interests', as far as I am concerned, and this has to be taken into account. Then I go to the third point that is related to implementation and implementation, because it is, in the end, up to date. What we're doing now is the paperwork. There is a great deal going on in practice. These laws and regulations are already being anticipated. It is important to stress that we do not start from zero. In recent years, the personal approach has already been applied in different ways in practice. Experimentation is already taking place in several places. The probation is now available in every facility. So they're already really warming up. Mr President, the ventilation goes out and there is a kind of serene silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u118	Because the comprehensibility was not good everywhere, we turned on the microphone a bit and turned off the ventilation for a moment, because it disturbs quite a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u119	Mr President, I love it, but I'm a little freaked out by my own voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u120	If it gets too hot, we'll see what we do. There's also a window open by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u121	I'm going to walk through some things step by step. Staff is one of them. Good implementation depends on whether you have sufficient staff and whether it is sufficient quality staff, whether people are well trained. We carried out an impact analysis in the run-up to this bill in 2018. It was also sent to your room. This shows what it takes to comply with the promises we make with this bill. Do we, for example, have guidance and preparation of the D&R plan guidance? How's the vi key from parole? Is this asking for extra capacity? 30 fte has now been made available and granted for this purpose. The public prosecutor, responsible for the actual assessment of vi-cases, will also be provided with the necessary staff. Then it's estimated that it's 6 fte. The Public Prosecutor's Office must carry out certain tasks for this purpose. It all takes more work. The new advisory board that the public prosecutor can advise also calls for extra effort. That is provided for. Then I would like to draw particular attention to DJI, which is perhaps most affected by the proposals contained in this bill. Thus, the number of detention places needed will gradually increase by 450 five years after entry into force. That is provided for. The bill also calls for DJI's commitment to the full ownership of the personal approach. For this purpose, DJI's human capacity is increased by about 50 fte. Several members asked for this too. I am talking about case managers, psychologists who can contribute to the personalised approach, but also about administrative staff to relieve the burden on employees in the workplace, so that more time and flexibility is created for PIWs to really focus on what is needed among the prisoners. In this context, I would also like to point out that we are trying to put staff policy really well and firmly and not just in recruitment, but also in training. Then I come back to the 100 million we have earmarked for the promotion of craftsmanship: extra training. In any case, DJI has always paid attention to good recruitment in this time of Corona, by the way, with a very funny slogan, something in the vein of "intelligent lockdown, we have been doing that for years." We just need very good people. The shortage of labour in recent years has been a little disappointing. It was hard to find good people. Nevertheless, we have succeeded. If you look back now, you can see that over the past few months, the workforce has increased by 405 fte, actually a bit against the current. How that works out with corona is hard to say. On the one hand, it will be a blow to the labour market which could facilitate the situation, but on the other hand, we can see that more security and surveillance personnel are being deployed on the left and right, and that is precisely the sector in which we recruit. In addition, it can help that we offer people internships. I think it is nice that Mr Dittrich, in his speech, also a little from his background, paid attention to this. We do that at different levels. On the one hand, there are the research placements for academics and HBOs, among others, who are in the process of completing their training. There are also a lot of practical placements, just for the MBO, because the DJI is a very nice place to put what you have learned into practice. It's very nice for us again, because it might be the best way to recruit. You see if someone likes it and can do the job. So we're all too happy to use that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u122	A short question about volunteering. The government agreement specifically states that structured volunteering should be regulated in this context. Is this also the case with the DJI department or other adjacent organisations, so that volunteers can be better and more structured?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u123	Yeah, there is. A wonderful initiative, by the way. Recently I was at one of the institutions in Capelle where entrepreneurs from the neighborhood say relatively severely punished people: come and work with me last year; then I'll take you under my wings. Really beautiful. And if something reduces the chance of repetition, then we know it's the structure that works and offers a job at the end of a sentence. That's very much on the basis of volunteering. So those are initiatives that I'm very happy to pursue. We have also adapted the funding framework that we have for this type of voluntary initiative in such a way that it fits very well in line with this bill, so that they can contribute to this reintegration and to that personal approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u124	Do organisations and companies know that this exists? How is the communication from the government to make this more widely known?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u125	The institutions that are or might be active on this are aware of this. I can see that from the requests that come to us. I will look again to see if we can reach a wider group of institutions that say: I would be happy to do something for this target group, which may have something of a stain or a stamp in society. Because if these people can get a little help on their return, that will of course help enormously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u126	Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u127	Mr President, briefly. In order to make this more concrete, can the Minister undertake to report to the Chamber within a reasonable period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u128	Yes, I will. I will come back to that later. This legislative proposal is based on the view of the prison system, but there is also a great deal of policy that cannot be taken into account in regulation. I say out of my mind, before the summer? After the summer? I'll take a look. There's nodding at "before the summer." Then I'll inform the House of Representatives about it, but I can of course send you a copy of it. Or rather, double shipping; I'll let you know. Then you know how this bill fits in with a broader story about recovery and volunteering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u129	I had actually asked the Minister this in the light of the Drost/Van der Staaij motion, which saw this very point. So I'm glad we find each other here in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u130	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u131	So you admit it, that's beautiful. I asked a question. You can see that voluntary organizations often have a certain motivation for doing the job. That's another one than the work DJI does. I'd hate for volunteers to become some kind of free employees of DJI. I do want to maintain the individuality of these voluntary organisations, which also motivates volunteers to give their commitment for a long time. I'd like a line underneath that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u132	I understand very well what Mrs Bikker means. I think we should look for a way that those two goals, or those two drives, the motivations, don't get in the way of each other. In other words, one does not have to rule out the other in my view at all. For me, it can go hand in hand. I know that some of these institutions are doing the same from the point of view of their lives. I'm fine with that. There's nothing wrong with that. Mrs Bikker says: that may even be very good. I have no judgment on that, let me put it this way. But of course we also want them to contribute... and in fact they already do. I just gave an example from Capelle, sorry, it's Krimpen, both to den IJssel. That's such an initiative, but they're also just helping people get a job. That's fantastic, because then the knife cuts both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u133	They do indeed already and there is no unwillingness at all to move along with DJI, but I would find it very acidic if we get some kind of bureaucracy and some kind of strike from the ministry... of "that's how we have to do it"...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u134	We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u135	... while these people work with heart and soul, so do these entrepreneurs, and turn it into gold, which is sometimes a complicated job. So it's good to hear that from the Minister, but I'll keep an eye on it because it's just a trend you always see in grant Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u136	You keep me sharp, thank you. I've already said something about the finances, so I'm gonna skip that. What will the implementation look like? We are working on a chain-wide plan to ensure that we also work together with all these bodies. That is why I also reached the intended date of entry into force on 1 May. We have done so in consultation with, among other things, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the probation. This enables organisations to recruit additional staff for that time, but also to train staff and train them well. In particular, as regards the training of DJI staff and the comments made by Mr Dittrich on this subject, discussions on diploma requirements with the central works council have advanced considerably. The focus of the interviews is to say, in principle, 'you must have a diploma', but it is considered whether exceptions are possible for people who, for example, have acquired specific work experience. I think that's fair to those people, too. In fact, at least we are in a tight labour market. We just want to keep good people, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u137	Minister, let me take a look at the time. How much longer do you think you'll need? You still have a block of transitional rights and a block of broader considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u138	A lot of questions have been asked about implementation. That's the block I'm in right now. After that, I actually only have the block where the transitional right is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u139	Fifteen minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u140	If I'm gonna pick up the pace, I'm sure I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u141	I'd love to. Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u142	A brief question about the implementation. I also stated yesterday in my contribution that the probation is concerned about the date of 1 May because the corona crisis has also delayed the connection of systems, what the engagements are going to look like, etc., etc. Can you say something about that? And can you also promise to inform the Chamber about the implementation and what it will look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u143	I'll admit it immediately. And as for the first thing, we're all sitting around the table. For me, it's important that this goes well. If it takes a little more time or if we find out that it's starting to get a bit tight in the coming months: it's not poured in concrete, but I think it's okay that we're keeping a bit of pace in it as well. That's why we're holding on to the 1st of May. Know, I've got two more keys, two reviews, which we're gonna use before we make the cover, see if we're ready for that. So there are also possibilities, if we say that there are still major bottlenecks, that we should take a break. I also do this in good consultation with these organisations. In the direction of Mrs Veldhoen and Mr Dittrich, even when it comes to lower regulation, I say that AMvBs and regulations are now all in the making. They have to be ready before 1 May, so that should also be on the ride. Then there were questions about the di-component, in collaboration with, among other things, parole and municipalities. Mr Rietkerk asked for it, and Mrs Bikker also asked for it. We made that administrative agreement. I simply think it is very good that different bodies not only express the intention but also make a number of concrete agreements in it. For example, hand-outs are done on how you handle this. It works with regional teams to provide local support. For example, it examines whether the provision of ID certificates can be simplified because we know how important that is. You can't get a place without ID, either. That's how we're doing all these agencies to make it better. In the progress report that I send to the House of Representatives for the summer recess, but now also to your Chamber, I will also go into more detail about the situation. The question was asked about the financial paragraph that goes with it. I think Mr Jansen made a comment on that. The so-called Van der Staaij funds have been put into it, which is EUR 2.5 million per year in structural terms. In addition, there are funds that can be used under the Wmo, just as of course separate from the regular tasks that municipalities have, for example, to provide good debt relief, assistance and so on. This is not just a question of something that costs money. If you do it right, and if we can avoid a lot of misery with this, I think that's what municipalities are all about every time we save social costs and a lot of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u144	In this report on progress, can the Minister refer to this element, i.e. the financing of the chain, not just because the programmes are different. So the Judicial Institutions and the probation, but also municipalities and housing corporations, because they are also in a certain financial situation, unlike when the administrative agreement was signed. And can the Minister also comment on the revenue effects in the progress report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u145	I will. I'll look at what level. There are many interfaces, the world has indeed changed and I know the complex financial situation of municipalities. Of course, as a cabinet, we have also invested extra in debt issues and we have recently invested more in housing, especially for vulnerable groups, for homeless people and homeless people. Basically, that's what you are when you get out of prison and you don't have a roof over your head. So I will go into that, but then I will go into more detail about what we are doing, also independently of justice, in various areas, where we have given an impetus to this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u146	Thank you to the Minister for his explanation of the administrative agreement. The Minister had already made a written commitment to enter into consultation with the Minister for the Interior and Home Affairs. I had also asked the Minister to share the outcome of that consultation with this Chamber. I would appreciate that, because that is very much what Mr Rietkerk has just said and what I share with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u147	I will. Part of that is the Minister of BZK, but also the Secretary of State of VWS, who is of course involved from the vulnerable groups. To briefly focus on what these D&R plans are going to look like in such a diverse prison population. I really think that is one of the biggest gains in this approach and also in this bill. Early screening, the early involvement of the parole board and the municipalities, the early making of such a D&R plan, the regular discussion of such a plan, including in the multidisciplinary consultation with many stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u148	I had asked a question in my first term about the fact that vi is likely to require more capacity in prisons. I asked if a quantitative analysis was made of this because the minister on the assembly line is closing all kinds of prisons. How does this work in capacity, including in terms of staffing? I pointed that out, too. I haven't heard that question properly answered yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u149	I have answered it, but not so deep, so I understand your point, because you are setting the relationship to a number of institutions that have been closed. We make an annual estimate for the budget of the need for capacity. This has been taken into account in the meantime. It leads to a slightly larger assessment, which is also financially foreseen. Every year we adapt the budget to that. Then you see two things. On the one hand, we had enormous voids in the prison system. A lot of euros went to empty cells, instead of promoting safety or helping people in need. So it's a good thing we've disposed of rocks in a number of places. That was also possible, because we simply had sufficient spare capacity within the current institutions. We have taken into account about 2,000 places in case it would rise a little more than expected. Which, by the way, it does. Indeed, the most recent estimates show a somewhat sharper increase. We can catch that rise right now within our capacity. It just costs money, because next to a cell, you need someone to supervise. We have, among other things, made more detailed proposals for this in the Spring Paper, which will be included in the Millions Note, because we are expecting more people to be punished, not because of this bill, but because of judges who are going to punish more. We shouldn't just offer them a cell, but also staff, say the hands on the bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u150	Short follow-up question, Chairman. So you're closing down some pretty drastic prisons. Are these irreversible routes or can these prisons be opened up again if crime or punishment are increased? Because the pressure on the staff of the remaining prisons is increasing enormously. Can you adjust that, too, if that's necessary? Or have we lost years, is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u151	First of all, it is very doubtful whether the pressure is increasing, because in principle we are working with certain ratios. If you have more people inside, you need more staff, so the pressure shouldn't increase unnecessarily. However, we do have less empty cells, and I find that positive in itself, because empty cells also cost money. I'd rather put my money into people than into empty cells. We think we can do very well with the capacity we now have. If that turns out to be different at some point we also don't know what corona will do, eh, because that also puts a huge task on the capacity and on what you can do within the walls; that's what we're looking at right now, then you have to go back. As long as those prisons haven't been demolished, you can start renting them again. But again, we have taken into account that we have a margin and that we do not have to go back to the least or least deviation from the estimates. Mrs De Blécourt has left the Chamber for a moment, but Mr Meijer is there. That's about the D&R plans and the self-evaluation. This is done with different stakeholders. The question was: shouldn't you set up a national committee for that? I think it's gonna be very heavy. I don't think that's the way we have to go, but what you want, of course, is that you have national reference points, national frameworks, national training and national intervision, so that the way in which a D&R plan is made in Roermond doesn't differ from how such a plan is made in Zaanstad. Of course, we can do something about that. Then the question is whether you should also do a 360 degree feedback. That might be a step too far. You never know in the future, but first, let's take this big step, one step at a time. Then there was the question about labor. Labour is an important part of this bill, too. What do the contact moments look like now? On average, an inmate has a day program of 42.5 hours in a week. This consists of work but also broader issues such as sport, mental care, recreation, education, meaning, reintegration activities and so on. If you show good behavior and get into a plus program, that's another five hours of extra activity. An important part of this is work, labour. What we really strive for is to have employment opportunities at every location and thus to offer it to everyone who is able to do so, and that is the vast majority. Now there are always prisoners who are not able to do so, but they have a good reason in my view and then there is the target group of the so-called arresters who are so short that you are doing other things than getting them to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u152	Very briefly, because I hear a slight difference here from the Minister's written reply. In it he wrote: labor is possible. My specific question was whether there were any p.i. work is possible. The Minister now says "the aim is to do so," but that's different from what he says "on every p.i. work is possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u153	I can make that a little more specific. Take, for example, the detention center Schiphol. That was recently put into operation. There is a room in which something of labor can happen, but it is not ideal. We are now looking at whether we can expand that so that we can put a full-fledged work programme against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u154	Then it is not so much the aim, but from the moment it starts, the minister here says "on every p.i. work must be possible." Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u155	That's what I'm saying. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm getting to the last block. The biggest moot in it is about the transitional right. Almost everyone has asked a question about that. I think it's good to put it first that we don't have it here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u156	May I make a suggestion? I suggest we keep the interruptions to the end of this block. Maybe you could finish that in five minutes? Then, finally, we do the interruptions in one go. In this way we can also ensure that we can start on time with the second term. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u157	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u158	For the room, too? Yeah? Fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u159	I think it's a good thing to put it first that we're not talking about changing the type of punishment or the level of punishment. We have had this discussion on a number of other points. We're talking about the execution of the sentence, the execution of the sentence. As soon as the execution of the sentence changes, the starting point is: immediate effect. This ensures the shortest possible transition period between the old and the new arrangements. This is also important for the implementation, for which, in my view, several Members of your Chamber have rightly called for a great deal of attention. The longer you allow different arrangements to exist side by side, the more complex that becomes for implementation. That immediate action can also be done. This is evident from case law, including from the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court. I note that the Council of State did not comment on the proposed transitional right on this point either. That is why we have taken immediate action in this legislative proposal, with one exception, namely for those who have been irrevocably convicted and are therefore already in detention and working towards their programmes and their vi. Mrs De Blécourt and Mr Dittrich called for attention to be paid to a group of suspects convicted before the date of entry into force at first instance, who now have to consider the appeal. This specific group would then be subject to the new VI scheme. Maybe it's just as good to frame this. We are talking in particular about suspects who have been charged with a crime that has been sentenced to more than six years' imprisonment. Only in that group will the measures have a vi effect. It is a clear and relatively limited group. Each year there are about 100 cases. In the case of an appeal, the judge shall review independently. The facts and circumstances are also taken into account. There's always a risk. Apelling is risking, is a well-known saying. I do not want to trivialize the point. I can see it. The question then is what the alternative is. I also refer to Ficq's letter. Any choice for a transitional right has advantages and disadvantages, because there are always groups in the old regime and groups in the new regime. The Ficq proposal has very important disadvantages. I believe that there are greater disadvantages than the transitional right we are proposing. If we take the foster date of the fact as the starting point, this may mean that in five, ten or twenty years' time sentences will still be issued to which the old vi-scheme applies, while other facts committed after the date of entry into force, which will be clarified quickly, can be removed under the new vi-scheme. I thought it was a nice picture of a cell corridor with convicts for the same kind of fact. In the long run, you'll get different regimes there. In my view this not only contradicts the feeling of justice, but also makes the execution unnecessarily complex. If I consider all this and look at the starting point of immediate effect in the enforcement of penalties, I come to the conclusion that the current transitional law is still the best choice. I do understand the hesitations felt by Mrs De Blécourt and Mr Dittrich. I also believe that, in the end, suspects should not be restricted in the possibilities of achieving their rights. I am therefore prepared to discuss with the Council on the case-law and investigators of the evaluation how the consequences of the new regulation on the penalty measurement can be taken into account in any form of evaluation. I'm rounding up. That was your wish, Mr. Chairman. In any case, the evaluation has been requested. What are we gonna take in there? I mention a number of themes, but that is not exhaustive. I want to look at transitional rights, but I also want to look at the process of detention and reintegration. I would also like to mention the way in which the three criteria for external freedoms are operationalised and worked out in practice. I'm pointing out the consequences for the victim. I call it behavior. The question is also how the maximation of the vi-period will work out, also in relation to the vulnerable groups and calculators. It is also about cooperation between partners and the relationship between VI and regular prison sentences. These are a number of points which come back in broad terms. I would like to put the following question now, otherwise Mr Janssen will certainly come back to that. He specifically mentioned two motions. One we've had. The other, the motion in part No. 21, it's about progress. He really wants factual information. I'll admit it. This is included in the progress report, which has been promised that it will also be sent to the Upper House. Mr. Chairman. I think I've run out of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u160	I'll see if there's any more interruptions. I see Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u161	I will come back to the issue of transitional rights. The Minister referred to the letter of fire from the law firm Ficq. Among other things, there is the example that if a convicted person has appealed and there has been a pro-forma hearing, the convicted person can no longer withdraw his appeal if he so wishes. This raises the question of whether the old or the new transitional law applies. Can the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u162	I think you can withdraw the appeal until the first hearing. Then you're in the appeal, and then the idea is that this is gonna have to be finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u163	It is, of course, a question of which law is applicable, the old one or the new one. If the convicted person believes that he will have to sit for much longer, he will want to waive the appeal. However, that is no longer possible, because that first pro-forma session has been held. The question remains whether that is unreasonable. The person concerned shall no longer be entitled to withdraw the appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u164	Whether they are under the old or new regime depends on the moment of the ruling. It may fall before the date of entry into force of this law. If it is an ongoing appeal that comes to an end before 1 May, then the old regime will apply. After 1 May, the new regime will in principle apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u165	The convicted person shall no longer be entitled to withdraw his appeal. Will there not then be convicts who do not appeal because they feel that the new system is very detrimental to them? Do you think this will stand in court in Europe? Article 6 of the ECHR prescribes a reasonable and fair trial. Then you must also have a full opportunity to appeal. By introducing something new that is detrimental to this category, you could fail that right. Do you not think that there are risks in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u166	No. This has been assessed in the light of case law, both national and European. The ECHR says a lot about the difference between the imposition of penalties and the enforcement of the penalty. I think that, in principle, this is a very good legal situation. The Council of State did not comment on this. If that had been a problem, it would have been. I do see Mr Dittrich's real concern. The question is, of course, whether this will actually occur in practice. If you appeal because you really think that there is an unjustified weighting or an unjustified conviction at first instance, I wonder if you will allow the new regulation to be considered so heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u167	Finally, Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u168	Some criminal attorneys don't think so. They weigh it differently. You have the impression that it isn't. They base their opinions on actual cases. Criminal justice doesn't think so. At a slightly earlier moment in this debate, the Minister undertook to sit down with the Council of Justice to see what the effects of this new transitional law might be, including the adverse effects. Can the Minister comment on this more specifically? At what time will this happen? We're talking long-term punishment. The problem will only apply in full over a number of years. Can the Minister promise that he will report to the Chamber on this? When's this meeting? What is he going to discuss specifically with the Council in the area of justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u169	I want to see if I can keep the finger on the wrist. I don't know if you should wait for the formal review in five years. I think you should sit here a little bit shorter on the ball because it's about ongoing cases. My proposal is that I go round the table with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Judicial Board and possibly the NSA to see what you can come up with to take it into account in those cases where it is really unreasonable. You should also be careful that it does not lead to unwanted effects on the other side. If you're going to make a real policy, you have a chance that people will think it pays extra to appeal. I don't think we want that either. It's about finding a good balance. You don't want to interfere with justice. From the point of view of legal protection, if they really feel that there has been a misjudgement at first instance, they should have the opportunity to appeal. I think that's the fine line we need to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u170	Finally, Mr Recourt, I should like to say a few words about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Same thing. I have two technical questions. One, let's say you didn't convince the Chamber. Is there a need for a novelle or can it be solved with a later introduction of different articles? Two: considering in practice, one might imagine that the court, judging by its total agreement with the court at first instance, so that it wants to impose the same punishment, realizes that in practice it will be much longer in the case of long-term punishment. So the court will de facto impose a shorter prison sentence. That is contrary to the image you mentioned earlier in the debate, namely that the judge is not at all about it. It's just a punishment, and we're in charge of execution. But it will be in line with the idea that you should not be disadvantaged in apple, and not favoured either, I agree with you. Is that space there, or do you say, no, that will really be dealt with in violation of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u172	I think you should distinguish between the thought and the spirit of the law, which are on the line as we discussed it earlier today. But this is, of course, a very short target group of current cases where you still look at case-by-case whether a judgment is not disproportionately heavy or detrimental to suspects. I can imagine a judge taking that into account without it being a line that draws you wider. You asked how to change that if you want to. The transitional period is in the law. So if the law is passed as such, that's the transitional period. Otherwise, you'll end up in the novel. But I wouldn't want to do that either, because I really think Ficq's line is going to be much worse, because it is going to impose a very unfair schism for a much longer period. Mr Rietkerk said it nicely: now that the statute of limitations is in place, it may be that in ten years' time you will have a cold case which you say: then we will apply the old vi-period. We really shouldn't want that, all of us. I fully support the transitional right contained in this. You're just looking for a reasonable way of dealing with the target group that we're dealing with here. Then I'm thinking a little along the lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u173	Mr Recourt, briefly if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u174	I understand that the Minister considers Ficq's line, which is to maintain the date of the crime, undesirable, because then there will be endless duplication of regimes. The starting point is that you shouldn't get into an adverse position by apple. So you can also say: we stick date pronunciation first instance, or something, and then you have a transition period of up to two years. Can you reflect on the starting point rather than on the practical implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u175	The Minister, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u176	I'm guessing that, too. We're gonna weigh it a little bit theoretically. Even then, of course, you will have border cases, with cases that have been postponed or have been delayed, where you can always stop the reasoning: it is unfair that I fall into the new regime. That is the great disadvantage of any introduction of a new system: you have always fallen on one side of the line and fallen on the other side of the line. Again, the starting point for implementation is always immediate entry into force. That would, in theory, also mean something to the people who have been sitting for a very long time and, so to speak, going towards a vi within two weeks. But we have made the assessment that that is the only group for which we make an exception. As soon as you increase that target group, I can assure Mr Recourt that in any case you will have that discussion about a target group that falls on the one hand or on the other because of deadlines. My idea would be: this is the best transitional arrangement there is. You just have to look at those limited cases where it's unreasonable, how you can deal with that. Well, that's what I've indicated I'd like to engage with parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u177	Thank you. Let me see if there are any other interrupts in this period other than Mr Otten. There aren't any. Finally, Mr Otten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here too. Let me put it first: our group is in favour of stricter and higher penalties, and also of less conditional release. But I think Mr Dittrich and Mr Recourt have a very valid point here. The VVD has reduced the maximum speed to 100 km/h on 1 April or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u179	That was March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u180	March. That's to say "you drove 110 km/h in February on the A4 from Amsterdam to The Hague; that was actually too loud, because it's now 100 km/h, so you get a fine." Of course you can't. In criminal law, it must always be the case that the time when the offence is committed determines the penalty and enforcement. And so what you're about to get is that the judges are going to take that into account in practice. So they're going to give someone a slightly lower sentence, because that vi-regime has been adjusted. So you're already getting a lower sentence for the court's reasonable thinking. That's what I was thinking when I heard Mr. Dittrich and Mr. Recourt. Then what's a lawyer of the Ficq calibre doing that we were just talking about here? He first takes that lower sentence for the client and then goes to the ECHR to say: yes, but that was not in line with the transitional right. And then there's a little more going on and then, from a society perspective, we're even further away from home. Then the unsub gets even lighter off of it. So I would like to insist that that transitional right be full ECHR proof and just make sure that the perpetrator of committing a crime...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u181	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u182	Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u183	I'd like a brief answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u184	I agree with Mr Otten that it should be full ECHR proof. And that's it. Mr Otten's comparison does not go far enough. This is not about changing the penalty. Then he has the point that it applies, of course, from the principle of legality et cetera. But this is a change in implementation, in the way it is done. Punishment doesn't change anything. There is really a huge amount of ECHR case law, which also makes this cut very hard. Let me give you another example. What if you're gonna change the leave? That would mean that for all the ongoing punishments and all the ongoing trials, you have to take that into account, say along the Ficq line. It can't be done at all, it's just impossible. That is also my point of order in my sentence: a judge must look at the seriousness of the crime. It just has to impose a punishment, which has to look at personal circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u185	Thank you, Minister. I'm gonna wrap it up a little bit, because I think this is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u186	I have one short question. Why is it impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u187	Thanks to Mr Rietkerk, we no longer have a statute of limitations on very serious crimes. Let me give you the example of a boy who was murdered in 1985. It's a cold case, the police are doing their best with new DNA techniques and next year someone will be caught and brought to justice. Then this new law is in effect. Then the judge's gonna put 24 years in jail. Do you think that we should say: but that is a very old fact; then we will go back to a vi of eight years? So that person would be eligible for his vi after 16 years. Or do you say: no, this is really after that date, there is an irrevocable conviction after that date, that person will then be eligible for the new system? That would be my line. I am therefore very much in favour of the latter. That's solid, that's legally sustainable and checked, et cetera. And if you deviate from that, you get a very long period of decades, in which some prisoners are brought in who get a short vi, but are also brought in convicts who are covered by the old system. That means you're actually keeping that unwanted, long-lasting vi in the air a lot longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u188	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term of office. I inform Members that in the event of a motion, you should read the text yourself and then put it on the table to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I give the floor to Mr Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u189	I thought Mr. Rietkerk had asked for a short suspension now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u190	Five-minute suspension? We're doing five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u191	I give the floor to Mr Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that we have had an interesting debate on a number of key points of the Law on penalties and protection, although, as far as I am concerned, the starting points from which the various people take their positions could have been better highlighted. For my group, it is extremely important that we focus on the security risks. I did the same yesterday in connection with the AIVD report. It is important that, as a government and as a chamber, we reweight the security risks that are coming to us. We did the same thing yesterday. Mr Otten came up with a question about a very small, silly club like Erkenbrand. My party has nothing to do with that. But even this question is still interesting, because it can teach us that we have to look at all these things. Animal rights activism, environmental activism, we talked about a Volkert van der G. I think that the kind of security risks that Volkert van der G. posed to us today are minor. Nowadays we have more to do with other groups like Antifa. Black Lives Matter now seems to be developing in a violent direction. Those are all big problems. But the biggest problem is jihadist terrorism. I have also made that very clear. I joined the AIVD with that. In fact, I put an extra line underneath. I must say that I was pleased to answer the Minister's questions on this matter and what he said about it. I thought that was trusting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u193	Mr Cliteur once again referred to the AIVD. I have now included the AIVD annual report 2019. It explicitly warns about the Dutch alt-right movement Erkenbrand. According to the AIVD, it aims "to pursue undemocratic objectives by democratic means." According to the intelligence service, the movement has "the ultimate aim of achieving an authoritarian political system that only wants to guarantee the fundamental rights of the white man." Now at the top of your party, where I've been involved as a founder and where I've done everything I can to keep these kinds of elements out of the door, involving people connected to this organization. Do you distance yourself from this kind of thought, yes or no? That is what I am asking Mr Cliteur. I'm gonna distance myself from it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u194	I think everyone's getting away from it. I think everyone's getting away from it. I think that Forum for Democracy has done so on a regular basis. You know that, don't you? You also know that we distance ourselves from any form of illegal and illegal action. You have experienced that yourself, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u195	Okay, but then you also agree that a purification is being carried out at the top of your party and these kinds of elements are being removed from that party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u196	A purification?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u197	This is out of order, but Mr Cliteur has been overcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u198	However, I would like to ask that the debate be limited to the legislative proposal before us and not to the way in which parties settle their own affairs in their chambers. Of course, you can discuss this, but not in the context of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u199	That was my proposal yesterday. But there's nothing to purify, because there's really nothing to worry about. And Mr Otten is well aware of this, but he is always using the debates here to raise these issues. For him, this has led to nothing and zero seats in the polls for a period of one year. That will undoubtedly continue. I would like to consider him:...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u200	Now I'm gonna interrupt you, Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u201	...put the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u202	This is not very constructive either. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u203	The polls are unrelated to this. I note that Mr Cliteur is thus moving away from the ideas of Erkenbrand and from elements in his party that are charmed by them. In any case, that is a good observation to be made here together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u204	That would not have been necessary at all, because there is no need to distance ourselves from something with which we have no affinity at all, I say again to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u205	Please continue your argument, Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u206	Good. A realistic assessment of the safety risks is therefore of enormous importance. I must say that the Minister reassured me on that point. What I have some hesitation with is the general ideological underpinning of the whole bill. I didn't think that, frankly, was very strong. I have focused in particular on the relationship between retaliation and prevention. To my taste, the retribution is somewhat stepmotherly and does not show enough that retribution is something very fundamentally different from prevention. That was not entirely removed during the exchange of views with the Chamber. In a sense, retribution and prevention do not always harmonise with each other either. Sometimes it may be that you have to do something from a retribution perspective that has no negative preventative effects. I would also like to point out the following. I think that in the exchange of views with the Chamber too much emphasis was placed on re-socialisation as regards the prevention effect. I am somewhat concerned about the 50% return rate. I think that is far too easy to ignore. I am confident that the new regulation could bring us something better in that regard. The last point I would like to raise is that I think there has been insufficient attention to the incapacitation, at least in our discussion. I do expect that when automatism departs from conditional release and that conditional release is limited to two years, this will have a beneficial effect on the incapacitation. I have never heard that so clearly said, but I do believe that this will be one of the more beneficial effects of this new arrangement. The Minister would also like to thank him for answering the questions. I have already made it clear that we are in principle sympathetic to this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u207	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. Then Mrs Veldhoen will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, after the chair has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group was critical of this bill because of the fear that the Netherlands will not be safer, especially with regard to noises from the field, from the chain partners. The question is how far that care has been taken away. We have questioned the Minister about the justification of the different expectations that lie under this bill. We note that this argument is no different than at the written stage. My group attaches great importance to the critical sounds from the field, from the chain partners. The Minister says that the opinions were issued during the implementation phase and that the proposal was amended in the House of Representatives. It also acknowledges that this is not the case with regard to the maximum period of validity up to two years, which the organisations are so critical of. My group sees, in part with the Minister, that on the very essence of this law, namely the maximation of that period and the role of the judge, no changes have been made to the Second Chamber, despite attempts by my colleagues in the Second Chamber to do so by tabling amendments. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, it is clear that the critical sounds of the Public Prosecutor, the Court of Justice, the Reclassification, the RSJ, Victim's Aid and so on are still fully valid on these points. The question then arises as to whether the concerns they have expressed have been sufficiently removed by the Minister. My group is of the opinion that this is not the case at the moment. We are very concerned about the maximisation of the vi and the effect it will have on the penalties. If it doesn't work out like the minister provides, what does that mean for trusting the judge? Platform Victim Support is also expressing its views on this. We also have great reservations about the marginalised role of the judge. One of the Minister's arguments for making this choice is the speed with which the prosecution can decide around the vi. But the same result could have been achieved with a guarantee of a judicial test, namely the judge-supervisor. That also indicates the case law. It can also decide in one day. My group is opposed to further reducing the role of the judge and increasing the role of the prosecutor, including in the detention phase. I would like to point out that, in the period 2015-2017, in the case of a criminal prosecution in small criminal cases, 30% of the cases do not result in a criminal sentence being imposed where the prosecution did. In 2018 it was over 26%. Nothing to the detriment of the D.A.'s office, but that's what looks like with a different, much less majestic pair of glasses. My group is concerned about this, including in the detention phase. In response to the question whether the vi will not be re-used as a fee if the victim's interests are taken too seriously, the commitment has been made that this will be taken into account in the evaluation. We welcome that commitment, thank you for that. We are also pleased with the assurances that the Minister will keep his finger on the implementation, that he will take seriously the concerns expressed by the Reclassification, that there will be test times and that 1 May will not be cast into concrete. Thanks for these commitments, too. I'll come to a conclusion. The concerns are unabated. Yesterday I noticed that many concerns were widely shared. They are fundamental concerns about the implementation and security of this country and the legal protection of citizens, because those convicted are also citizens. In addition, the great and, as far as my group is concerned, real concerns about implementation. My group is going to consider whether the positive elements outweigh the negative elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u209	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. Mr Dittrich has another interruption on Mrs Veldhoen, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u210	A question to Mrs Veldhoen, because the concerns she has expressed here, whether understandable or not, were also expressed by the GroenLinks Group in the House of Representatives. In the end, he voted in favour of the bill with the reasoning: there is also a lot of good in the bill that will benefit prisoners in everyday practice. What is the difference between the Eerste Kamer Group and the Tweede Kamer Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u211	Quite rightful question and thank you for that. The political group in the House of Representatives finally made an assessment and found that the positive elements prevailed and therefore voted in favour of this law. The facts have changed to the extent that there is now much more insight into how implementation is going to take place and into the problems, for example, with the DJI, in terms of capacity problems that are very urgent there. The question then arises as to whether these positive elements are actually being realised in practice. My group in this Chamber has serious doubts about this. The balance will of course be different if the positive elements on paper are beautiful in the Lower House that is also noted and heavily considered, but in this Chamber we can see that the implementation problem is real but it is still the question whether the execution will be as beautiful as it is on paper. Then, of course, the weighting will be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u212	But isn't that a little illogical? Apart from the new bill, DJI has job vacancies, training problems and that sort of thing. The Minister replied to this and hoped that it would all get better. But with a vote against this bill, you will not solve the problems of practice. So the question remains as to why you are considering voting against this bill. That doesn't help the people in detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u213	It is true that a vote against, if we get this far, will not solve those problems. But it does mean that there is longer time to work on this reintegration because the vi-term stays longer. This proposal reduces the vi-term, puts more pressure on the kettle and really has to be done in those two years. And it must have got off the ground very well, as the Minister has always stressed, even before the vi. If you have questions or uncertainty or that early reintegration does come from the ground, then of course it has an immediate effect on reducing the maximation of the vi to two years, while if the law remains unchanged, you have a longer period of time to keep a finger on the wrist as a parole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u214	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u215	I too thank the Minister for his answers. I began my first term by saying that prison is always a poor and often an unfortunately necessary solution. The main reason for this is perhaps that someone with serious delinquent behavior has shown that he cannot take responsibility in society. What do you do? Then you lock him up and take all the responsibility. When the punishment is over, you open the door and say, "Now you can do it." I can't. There is a fundamental error of opinion: we want responsible citizens and we make them responsible by depriving them of their freedom. This law is the repair of it. By doing so, we are trying to bring that responsibility back as best we can in detention. With this target group that is extremely difficult. I'll come back to that later. My predecessor said it: it is a balance for my group between elements that we experience as improvement and elements that we experience as deterioration. Starting with that deterioration. The Minister said when I was interrupting: perhaps the PvdA group would like to punish slightly. No, it wasn't about that. I'm concerned with the point that the judge decides what the punishment is. I really had to do my best to follow the minister. I think that the judicial domain is extremely important when it comes to balancing. Now if the law had been that the vi had already entered half or a third, the judge would have considered what punishment he had to impose, saying: that actually means so many years in prison and I do not like that in the context of retaliation; I have to weigh that up and that retribution must be firmer; I am going to punish harder. That would have been a very logical reaction. I still think it is a logical reaction. At the moment we say: we make that vi shorter, then the judge will still see what he thinks fit in the considerations he has to make. I don't understand the Minister. The minister says the judge isn't about that. It's about the total punishment. And we, or at least not the judge, are doing the execution. I'm gonna stick there. In my first term, I asked if the Minister would stand behind the judge when the judge actually took his own domain and said: it is about how much is actually served, so we are going to lower the penalties. Actually, I hear the Minister say no to that question. He says that with beautiful words. He says: we will then enter into the discussion again, because this is not the intention. You just impose the penalty, Judge, and we'll do the execution. The vi is part of that. I think that is really an undesirable development. This reduction will take place in a number of cases. That won't be many cases, but she's coming. That is an element in which there will again be criticism of the judge who, within his own domain, makes an assessment of an appropriate punishment. Can the Minister still reflect on this one more time? 'Cause there's room in the Transitional Law, that's what we heard. I understood from the Minister's reaction to my interruption that transitional law might leave some room to the judge to make a factual assessment of how long someone is behind the door. Then there is the second point I want to make. I've been a seven-year-old, eight-year-old parole officer. When I got there, I thought, "Oh, my gosh, what kind of randomness is this?" How can you justify it? Is this even effective? I don't have much time, so I'm gonna hurry up now. Later on, I found that the alternative, appropriate in the market mindset of settlement, programs and keeping accountants in order, is often a paper alternative. In reality, it is only right when the implementation is in order. The execution is in order if you give people with high professionalism time to work with people. They still have to answer for it. They can't just do something. Professionalism is the key word, and also confidence in the professional. I am encouraged by this in this debate, namely the 100 million for training. Of course, I could read about that. I am also strengthened by the RISc system, which is, in part, something that I don't like. That's kind of a paper reality. There is a possibility to deviate from this in practice. Here I ask the Minister to stand behind the professionals if things go wrong unexpectedly. As Minister, you cannot say: well, you have deviated from the RISc and that is why I no longer support you. Mr. Chairman. My time is up, so I finish my final points in two sentences. One: did I indeed hear from the Minister that recovery rights are going to be given a structural place in detention? That's how I understood him, but it went really fast. I would very much welcome that. Secondly, can the minister on that transitional right agree to the solution he calls it? That is the basis that, by introducing this law, you will not be able to come into a more advantageous position, but you will not be in a more unfavourable position if you appeal against the judgment of the judge at first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u216	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u217	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that within one year of the possible entry into force of this new law, he will produce a substantiated report showing whether or not this law has led to lower penalties. Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I noticed that in many of my colleagues' speeches there was a great deal of attention for the perpetrators, with reintegration, re-socialisation, relapse rates, permanent behavior change, customization and good citizenship. My group is struck by the fact that there is some imbalance between crime, the impact on society and the aspect of retaliation that does justice to the victims. The decline in trust in the legal system can be explained, among other things, by this imbalance. Of course, during the sentence attention should be paid to behavioural change and work towards reintegration. But the importance of the victims and society must be the starting point. The two-year period laid down in this bill is a step in the right direction because it does justice to the victims. It is important to recognise that there are situations in which resocialisation and reintegration will hardly be successful and that in such situations detention without vi is a logical option. What's the Minister's position on that? Can the Minister state that punishing crimes and doing justice to victims is in balance and that the government not only extends its hand to the perpetrators, but both hands to the victims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u218	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mrs Bikker on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, you will know that one of the most widely read novels by Fyodor Dostoevski has two titles. First, the book was called Debt and Penance. In a later translation, that became Crime and Punishment. Now it is true that there have been two camps since then. One camp finds the more Catholic title Guilt and penance the appropriate. The other camp says, "crime and punishment thinks the load." Let me make an even more catholic remark today: this bill has both in it. The punishment, but also the sight of man. In those two titles of Dostoyevsky one looks more closely at the act and the other at man. My compliments to the cabinet that it has managed to present a legislative proposal in which both are central. I think that this is an important difference from the times before and from previous Cabinets, where I remember the discussions, in which it was only about the act and about the punishment. Eventually, it's also about the recidivism going down and people refurbished leaving prison. Then there is a penalty: then there is that punitive element, but it also improves society and man himself. That's a kick-off, Mr. Chairman. The Minister would then like to thank him for his comprehensive reply and for his flexibility in replying. We've gone through all kinds of crisscross points and in the end all this Chamber's concerns about this bill have passed. An important point of my group was the feasibility of this. Yes, we see the shortage of staff in the DJI and, yes, we see that there is still much to be invested in terms of capacity, but also in terms of staff quality. We welcome the investments that are already being made, but we are concerned about whether the beautiful thing in this bill can be achieved. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for his commitment to explain in the next year's budget, or as soon as possible afterwards, but already in the autumn, how he is taking lessons from the pilots that are currently running. And how he's going to offer customization in the future, making it clear how he's going to guarantee structural finances. Of course, I understand that choices are being made, but I would ask that these choices be strongly supported, so that, especially for vulnerable prisoners, I have pointed out that Ivb people are being very insightful about how we are giving them care, so that they do not get stuck in unwillingness and incompetence, but are being redirected back into motivated walking towards the person-oriented approach, which also helps to get out of prison in a good way. I thank the Minister for promising this. At the same time, I wish him wisdom, for this is greater than the promise. Getting DJI in order as a whole is an important task of the minister, asking a lot of him. A great deal has already been done with regard to conditional release. I should like to come back to two points. One looks at the category of convicted persons who actually need a little more than the two years of conditional release. We have already had an exchange of views on this, and I think the Minister and I agree that it is a very small group. The Minister even thinks that there may be zero and that it is not necessary in the new system. I keep my concerns, since a number of experts are talking about the Public Prosecutor's Office, justice and parole. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to discuss this with these partners and the healthcare experts in particular within two or three years to see whether this concern that is still alive is justified and to report back to the Chamber. If necessary, we can always see if an inventive solution is needed, but we can see that. I want to see that report first and the results of that conversation. In this way, I think we have found a valve with each other in which those two years are not a compelling period, but the starting point. The second point I made with regard to that conditional release was the calculating inmate. We have also discussed this extensively with each other. I would like to thank the Minister for promising to have a discussion in two years' time. That is how I understand it, but this has gotten worse and I would like to be corrected if things were different from that with the courts of justice, OM and probation and that they are clearly questioned whether they have maintained this concern and that this is fully explored in the evaluation. The Minister said that we would still be in time to close the gap. I think he's right about that. I do believe that we are not going to leave this hole behind us now and note it in a number of years' time: we did say that there might be a calculating prisoner, but we did not do anything about it. I believe that we have found an excellent solution to prevent this. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I have made the most important commitments that my group attaches great importance to. I must honestly tell you that I have not been fully convinced about the division of competence between the Public Prosecutor and the judge, but you cannot get everything in life completely perfect in this distribution. It's a point where I'll stay focused on what the effects are. With regard to transitional rights, I agree with previous speakers. I think it is extremely important that the discussion is conducted properly, that it is properly reported to the Chamber and that prisoners who are in the phase in which they are considering appeal will not deteriorate. Nor should they necessarily improve, but there will have to be a fair weighting to see if there have been any problems. I would like to hear the Minister explain exactly what that looks like. I thank the Minister once again for his commitment to the administrative agreement. There's one more question that wasn't answered. That was the only one, so I'm saying this with appreciation. I asked the Minister how he was going to ensure that all the municipalities were involved, because I am proud of those leaders that I really do see in the country, but I also know that a number of municipalities have been pushing the moustache for years. I would like to call on the Minister to look at this point together with the VNG to see how we are pulling them in. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments he has already made with regard to the administrative agreement and the section. By this I can say that I look back on a good debate and that I will also report to my group in this constructive atmosphere. I will also report in this way to the SGP Group, but you will understand that I am not at all concerned with their voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u220	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u221	Thank you, Mr President. I begin by thanking the Minister for answering our questions, but also the questions from this Chamber. That has clarified a number of things. I agree with what Mrs Bikker said: I think we have had a good debate. I would like to highlight a few commitments because they are important for our group. A commitment has been made with regard to vulnerable prisoners, including the slightly mentally handicapped. Mrs Bikker has already pointed that out. I understand from the pilots that there will be a structural guarantee of good practice and that we will see it reflected in the funding. A second commitment to which I refer is the progress report that deals with the process throughout the entire chain of DJI, parole, municipalities and corporations. I understand we're getting it for the holidays, but you'll have to point that out in the second term. I would like to have the financial resources on the main lines of the programme. It is not necessary to be very precise, but it is also necessary to see the bottlenecks that may arise in the implementation of the programme by these partners. Then I have a few more questions that focus on the effective feasibility of this bill. Fortunately, several groups have discussed victims and relatives; I do not like Mrs Bezaan for a moment, but we have already dealt with the victims' families in the interruptions. The Minister considers that there are sufficient instruments, both administrative and criminal. I still have a supplementary question on situations where there is a duty to move and a ban on residence. This is a link with serious violence and, in particular, sexual offences. Can such a condition, as far as the Minister is concerned, be linked to the vi via this bill? And a second question: is it still possible to intervene through administrative and criminal law after completion of the VI? Then there is the recidivism, which has already been mentioned by others in this debate. The 50% recidivism is really unacceptable. You will come back to this in a much broader context. The Minister states that this bill is also the beginning of an answer to reduce that percentage. I understand that this is complicated, but what ambition does this minister have in four, five or six years' time when it comes to the relapse rate? Because this is just unacceptable. I have one more point to make. There's just people who are sick. They're sick now, sick in 10 years and sick in 20 years. In the previous context, we discussed this with a number of psychologists and sociologists. They also say that you can no longer see serious sex offenders in society. I would urge you to pay particular attention to this. In this context, I also have an enforcement question about the TBs clinic in Veldzicht, which includes lifelong TBs, especially sex offenders. Some of us have spoken to them. Those people are just seriously ill. I would like to draw attention to this. Can we use this bill to specifically monitor and monitor the offenders who are recidivists? May I have an answer from the Minister? Then the staff, the knowledge and skill. In your first term, you replied to Mr Dittrich's question about the MBOs, who are qualified to do the work for which they are qualified. That's a big group. The prison system and parole do not suffer from the corona during this period either, because they are crucial professions. Can the Minister say whether there can be additional apprenticeships and internships in the agreements that may already exist between DJI, probation and mbo-training? Because as you also pointed out, we foresee that for the implementation of this bill you will need those hands and those people to eventually pay attention much earlier in the trajectory and in the chain in the penitentiary program. I'll ask the Minister how he sees it. Is this part of the 100 million or what? How does the Minister see that? Finally, the right of transition. I was pleased with the answer that we could also read very clearly back in the reply. The Minister says very clearly that the ECHR proof bill is. He said that with an explanation that I found very relevant to this Chamber. In the explanatory statement to the questions put by Mr Dittrich, from society and from the experts that this transitional right might still be amended, the Minister gave a part of the answer in relation to the abolition of the limitation period, for which Mr Dittrich and I were the initiator at the time. These examples have led me to give the legislative proposal the advantage, so not the benefit of the doubt, but the advantage, the preference. You indicated that you would be talking to the Council for Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other parties, but the Minister's commitment was lacking in what period that will take place. I assume that Mrs De Blécourt will ask a little more questions about this later, but I will listen very carefully to the Minister's reply because the report on the content of these talks and the conclusions, as well as the views of the Minister, will once again help our group to be even more positive about this proposal. After a good debate, I will at least give a positive advice to our group, partly on the basis of your replies in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-2.u222	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. We are now going to suspend for lunch until 1.30 p.m., also in connection with the petition that is being offered.
