ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the proposal for a general revision of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to welcome the chairman and the members of the working group who have prepared these proposals. I am sure I will speak on behalf of the entire Chamber when I thank you and your support for all the hard work you have done. I welcome the fact that we can now speak in full about our working methods in this house. The working group is larger than the number of members in box K. Because of the corona measures not all members can be present. The members of the working group are Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, he is chairman of the working group on behalf of the VVD, Mr Raymond de Roon on behalf of the PVV, Mr Jaco Geurts on behalf of the CDA, Mr Joost Sneller on behalf of D66, Mr Tom van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks, Michiel van Nispen on behalf of the SP, Lilianne Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA and Thierry Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Now Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Sneller, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Baudet and Mrs Aukje de Vries are sitting in Box K. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u2	I'm just looking for my list of speakers. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower as the first speaker, on behalf of the PVV. It's nice to be back on this chair, instead of in box K. We've had that this morning. That's gonna make me feel better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u3	You survived, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u4	And so are you, because we spend the whole day in this room together. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing you're back in your old trusted place. First of all, on behalf of my group, many thanks to the members of the Working Party on the Revision of Rules of Procedure. Many thanks for the time they put in. I agree with what the President has just said. It seems as if we have copied each other's texts, because my text also states that the result of your committee's undoubtedly hard work is, if I may call it that, rather than what the chairman said, a little conservative. The committee does not propose any major, dramatic changes. On some points, my group can appreciate that, but perhaps this debate and the second period that we will have at a later date will lead to some changes, through amendments and so on. The working group notes an imbalance between the plenary activities and the work of MPs in the committees. According to the Working Group, more regularity and structure should be introduced into the plenary agenda. To this end, the Working Party makes a number of proposals: an arrangement of work at committee level, only once a week a plenary arrangement of work, and an experiment with fixed, reserved voting times on Thursday. In order to keep the long list of debates manageable, a system will be created whereby allocated debates will lapse over time if they are not scheduled. The method of supporting at least four other members in the filing of a motion shall lapse. The strict rules for the first four minutes of Question Time are dropped. The Court may decide to consider orphan own-initiative proposals, e.g. those of departed Members of Parliament, to lapse over time. I think that's the change. If I've forgotten one, I'd like to hear it from someone. Mr. Chairman. My group notes that, as a Chamber, we cannot accuse Mr Van der Staaij, who presided over this committee and with whom we are debating today, of making proposals in favour of the opposition parties. The changes, at least some of them, are particularly beneficial to the coalition parties. However, no one will disagree with me, I suppose, and certainly not Mr Van der Staaij, who said that, in the case of adult democracy, opposition parties must also have the fullest possible resources. The regulation of work, for example, should not therefore be withheld from the plenary. In this political arena, the political groups here must confess their colours. Let everyone in the Netherlands see who wants to debate a particular subject or not, here in the plenary room and not in a small room in this building, or later in another building, when we move. Transparency is typically one of those words that the average voter cannot get enough of. If we are to impose restrictions on the regulation of work, only a handful of mannequins and rulers of the power parties will be able to request debates. They can block debates with the comfort of the luwe. The plenary order of business should simply be able to be held every day and should not therefore be muffled away, or be regulated by a complicated instruction with a great deal of pain and effort. Just always the way we have it now. For everyone, especially for citizens, it must be clear who is requesting a debate, but also when a debate is being requested. This also applies to Question Time. Is it possible, I would ask Mr Van der Staaij, to make another change on this point? For example, our group would like Members' requests for a debate or for Question Time to be collected in a public register accessible to everyone, for example online. Then it is clear and transparent which Member of Parliament was the first to report on a particular subject. I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij, the committee, if he will accept this suggestion. What can also be more transparent and, in our view, more transparent is the granting of oral questions. It is now completely unclear, it is a black box on the basis of which our esteemed and highly respected President makes choices. Has this been a subject of discussion in your committee, I ask Mr Van der Staaij, and if so, why has there been no change in this matter? The Group says it wants a dynamic Question Time. That's good. That's what we want, too. Why, then, was it not chosen, I ask Mr Van der Staaij, for weekly Question Time with the Prime Minister, for all the major points of the week? Group chairmen debate with the Prime Minister once a week in Question Time. Doesn't the committee think that's a better, better or more relevant idea? If you are aiming for a more efficient agenda for the Chamber, why are Members of Parliament being Maximized in their speaking time, but not directors? My group is considering a motion or an amendment on this point, but would like to hear the views of the committee, Mr Van der Staaij, in its reply. We Members of Parliament have to raise our point in a debate in very few minutes, while some ministers or secretaries of state are not going to be able to mention names here, sometimes long stories, often without really saying anything, but that aside. Moreover, Members of Parliament are often restricted in their interruptions and the members of the cabinet give evasive answers to these interruptions. It would, in our view, be beneficial for the debate if the members of the cabinet were to be limited in their speaking time. I'd like to hear your opinion on that. The speaking time of ministers and secretaries of state should be limited in both the first and the second term in the House of Representatives. Their speaking time, for example, should be an example; I should never be more than a factor of three of a Member's speaking time. Mr van der Staaij's opinion on this matter is welcome. I think I already said that. Once again, we are considering tabling an amendment of our own. We hope for broad support from the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u6	I think we all feel your pain, although customisation should perhaps apply here, but let us not further develop it here. But there's a certain risk of this, too. I wonder how Mr Markuszower looks at that. The directors can talk until they run out of time and then they can no longer answer the difficult questions. How does Mr Markuszower look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u7	That's a good question. I'm afraid we're going through that already. Now there is no limited speaking time for directors. We often get an avalanche of information deposited all over us. Again, there is often nothing said when rulers start with very long introductions. Then at some point it's one or two o'clock in the morning and nobody really wants it anymore. In the end, it is up to the President to maintain order and to ensure that those leaders really get to the heart of it, which is already the case, but if they are soon to be Maximized, it is certainly necessary to respond briefly and concisely to questions. If there is a need for clarification, the Member may ask for more, but it is up to our Chamber to decide how much speaking time we have. So that can always work out. So short and concise. I hope that this proposal will result in the directors simply deleting their often meaningless introduction. Questions are being asked by the Chamber, so just start, or keep that introduction brief. Get a short and concise answer. I was talking about a factor three. If you and I both get four minutes, a ruler with my proposal gets 12 minutes. Shouldn't that be enough for a first term like this? That can be expanded with questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u8	I look forward to the outcome. Apparently, he's not here yet. I could also imagine that is my last question on this point, which you are saying: there is actually already an instrument, namely the President. That sounds a little disrespectful, but that's not what I mean. The President can always insist on really answering questions. You could sharpen that up even further. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u9	We all notice once again, nothing to the detriment of those sitting in the chair that rulers often do not give an answer. The President also says a few words about this, but as a Member of Parliament you are very limited. In fact, that is a different problem than maximizing the speaking time of directors. So I think it's two problems. Maybe we can think together about how we can solve that other problem, so that rulers can often evasively or not give an answer that will get you out of your interruptions as a MP. Maybe we can find something on that, but that's actually a separate problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the revision of the Rules of Procedure. This review is the result of the work carried out by the working group led by Mr Van der Staaij. I would like to thank all the members of the working group from this place for their good and valuable work. Thank you very much! Then to the content of the change. The working group proposes to revise the whole of the regulation. This means that many provisions have been rewritten. However, major changes are not proposed. The most important element of the review is that we should all try to reduce the burden on the plenary agenda a little more, discuss the political orientations and give the committees a stronger role. This seems to be a good starting point. Before I come to a number of specific questions, I would also like to ask the working group two more general questions. First of all, I would like to ask the working party to analyse in detail what the Rules of Procedure have as their place in our parliamentary system in a state-of-the-art manner. Does the Working Group find the Rules of Procedure sufficiently well-equipped to respond, for example, to current state-of-the-art issues? Another question is whether the working party has also considered giving the committee an even greater role, as in some other parliaments. I am not saying that I think this is necessary, but I would like to see a more contemplative response from the working group. Then there are the specific questions of my group. The Group proposes to improve the balance between plenary and committee activities. This means less plenary arrangements, now by default only on Tuesdays a regulation and the introduction of a settlement of proceedings at procedural meetings. My group still wonders how we can ensure that this is dealt with equally in all committees. So a piece of uniformity. At present, we see differences in practice between how committees deal with certain procedures. However, if we want it to be a culture that goes much more through the committees, we must ensure that the new rules are respected more uniformly in all committees. Would it not therefore be a good idea to reduce the number of 30-member debates in plenary by allowing minority debates in committee as well? I would like a response from the working group to this. The Group also proposes to make the plenary agenda more predictable. That seems to my group not only good for the internal organisation but also for those who want to be able to follow our work well in all areas. Can the working party name what it thinks are good fixed voting moments? I also read that the working group believes that, for example, VAOs on subjects on which, for example, is a meeting at European level in the short term, should be planned earlier so that we do not have too many last-minute votes. In itself, I understand that, but we all know that there's a lot of last minute new information coming from the government. I would like to hear from the working group how we can ensure that this can be better organised and regulated. Mr. Chairman. As regards GroenLinks, a number of improvements can be made to the proposal. For a long time now, my party has felt that it would be a good idea to make the cabinet formation even more transparent by making candidate directors heard by the Chamber. In this way, the Chamber and society can become acquainted with a candidate executive and can also demonstrate in advance who he or she is, and relevant matters can be raised before the appointment. That gives us a bit of transparency, even here in our Chamber. Together with Mr Van Meenen, I am tabling an amendment on this today. Mr. Chairman. My group considers it important that the way in which committees appoint their rapporteurs and the way in which they control the annual reports in the framework of the government's financial control should be properly safeguarded in the Rules of Procedure. This contributes to strengthening the information and control position of the Chamber. This will enable a substantive debate on the expenditure of the state to be carried out. That is why I tabled an amendment on this subject together with Mr Van Meenen. I am curious to hear the response of the working group to this. Another point we would like to draw attention to is the fact that it is not possible at the moment for foreign heads of state to address our Chamber. This is already possible in a number of other countries. Our Head of State and our Prime Minister have also used this in the past a number of times. I am thinking, for example, of the King or the Prime Minister who addressed the European Parliament. Another iconic example is former Queen Beatrix who addressed parliament in the United States. We are therefore tabling an amendment, together with D66, to make this possible. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to highlight another point to which my group attaches importance. At the moment, it is not possible for people under the age of 18 to submit or support a citizens' initiative, while we are increasingly seeing, even in this corona crisis, that young people, for example, want to be more and better involved in decision-making. That also makes sense, because a lot of policies affect them now and also their future. GroenLinks would therefore like to see it made possible for 16- and 17-year-olds to submit and sign a citizens' initiative. I am also tabling an amendment on this today, together with Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u12	I have a question on the amendment to item No. 16 on inviting foreign heads of state. When I read it like that, I haven't had it in my possession for so long, so I've been able to study it to the point of sadness. I have a bit of a feeling that the amendment on two thoughts is in one sentence. On the one hand, a tribute to Heads of State, but it also expressly states that a Head of State may be invited to attend and also address the meeting. Is it, then, specifically that there is a special subject that is interesting to hear the views of the head of state in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u13	Yes, of course. That could be expertise from the head of state, perhaps in other areas. It seems to us to be a good idea to introduce this possibility to our Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u14	I understand that. By the way, I've been looking into history for a while, because that's what I'm happy to do. I have seen that there have been Heads of State who have spoken to the United Assembly, so obviously there is such a thing. But to come back to that point, these two objectives. Let me take a specific historical example, perhaps to avoid all the pain. Suppose the Chamber has to decide on the air bridge to Berlin in 1948. Then I can imagine you say: I find it interesting if we can interrogate Truman, but also perhaps Joseph Stalin. Then perhaps you could say that inviting an American president is a form of tribute, and would you, I can also imagine, that of course not with a dictator like Stalin. But perhaps the content of Joseph Stalin's contribution to such a debate is much more interesting. So can't those two thoughts start sanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u15	That's a fair question. I can promise that I will take a good look at the text of my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr Van Otterloo has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our thanks also go to this committee for the good work that has been produced. It's a select company, by the looks of it, but at least it's broad. We are also generally satisfied with the reactions to the comments we have made. We are particularly pleased that it remains possible for smaller groups to make a contribution here in plenary if they have not participated in a VAO or a VSO. 'Cause that's part of it. The chairman of the committee knows how difficult it is to be everywhere and always at the same time when you are three. I should've been in the mining business this morning, and so there are more headache files that you need to deal with, except for the work of the Chamber. But I have to say this: if I put myself down as a re-enterer, I find myself feeling a little uncomfortable with the requests for debate. In general, we are also trying to give other parties something here in this house, because it is about the debate. But too often I heard three times: "I join...". The first representative of a coalition party would have rejected the request for debate and then the same story came up three times. Perhaps it is because of the shaky basis of the coalition, but I think that is an impoverishment of the debate here. We must, of course, be selective in our requests for debate. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. The list shows that, in this respect, we are 'outside' a large number of requests for debate. There is a difference between a accepted debate and a 30-member debate, and when you look at what is being honored and what is on the list and how long to wait for it, it sometimes makes it an illusory exercise to request the debate. That's why a few thoughts. In line with the previous comments I have made, it is first of all the question whether you should always need exactly the majority for a debate request. Or perhaps we could use a qualified minority to give a little more space? On the other hand, I have also noticed that, in the coincidence of the communication between the person requesting the debate and some other colleagues, too often it appears that several requests for debate can actually be combined very well. With all the political freedom that goes with it, I would like a little more guidance on that. Something happens to come up because there is a new request for debate, whereas there are many more opportunities to merge. Whether that should be a matter for the committee or for the Bureau, I would like to leave it with the committee. What do they think would be most useful? But I could imagine that there would be a little more direction on that, by constantly looking at what is going on. I don't want to dwell too much in the past either, but an interplay was something that stood in the past. A request for a debate is hardly that anymore. Question Time is something that is very much about what went wrong between Thursday evening and Monday, in the newspaper or whatever, and that ends up here. It's not much about structural matters. I would therefore like to put the question to the committee, and I have not yet tabled an amendment on it. This will enable us to have a better debate in connection with topicality and the real work that we have to do, including laws and the like, and to tackle problems in society, and also to show our constituents that we are not only concerned with the delusion of the day, as often seems to be the feeling at Question Time. Finally, Mr President. I can say that 50PLUS is in principle in favour of the three amendments tabled in relation to the candidate directors and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Mr Van der Molen has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once every 25 years, it is time to make a major contribution to the Rules of Procedure. 'Cause is this M.O., which we're supposed to find here, still from this time, and do we even get what it says? Apart from that, it's good to think about why we're doing in this house the way we do them every now and then. On behalf of the CDA Group, the President, I would like to thank the working party van der Staaij for his work and for the proposals for improving the work in the Chamber in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. It is particularly special to look at our Rules of Procedure at a time when there is no normal procedure in the Chamber. The corona crisis did not need a committee to turn the order of our work upside down. In the CDA Group, this leads to the question of whether there are sufficient grounds in our Rules of Procedure to take emergency measures. Now, for example, we have only regulated the limitation of access for visitors in our regulations. But there are no provisions for digital meetings yet, to give you an example. Now we work in the Chamber at those times with a gentlemen's agreement, but not everyone in this house is a gentleman. The CDA Group would like to review the emergency measures after the crisis and consider whether the regulation should be amended in the event of a similar situation in the future. Mr. Chairman. The Van der Staaij committee has rightly stressed the need to reduce the pressure on the plenary. We drive ourselves crazy in this house sometimes. My colleague, Mr Omtzig, pointed out that the Chamber allowed more time for topical debates than for the thorough examination of legislation. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, concentrating on one day's work and introducing a system of committee work is a good first step in this respect. But this does not, to our liking, allow the centre of gravity to shift from the plenary to the committee meeting in order to have a real impact on the amount of debates we have to have here. We can increase committees in importance and further relieve the agenda in this plenary session by having the thirty-member debates held in committee. Mrs Özütok also made a comment on this. For example, the committee already introduces the name "committee debate" to show some of it. As far as we are concerned, that would fit perfectly with the proposal I have just mentioned. Why should 30 Members wait months to some time for a year to discuss their current subject in plenary, if this could be done much earlier in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure? Doesn't that make the chamber committees much more interesting? Not only the tough preparatory work for a plenary debate, but also the topicality for which much press attention can be paid? We see that requests for debate are now regularly rejected with a reference to a general consultation to be held shortly. Motions could then still be tabled in plenary as far as we are concerned. Then anyone can take notice of that. For example, committees are increasing in weight, 30 member debates can take place earlier and the plenary agenda is being relieved, leaving more time for urgent majority debates or thorough legislative work. I shall therefore be tabling an amendment to add it to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u22	I would just like to make a brief assessment of Mr Van der Molen's amendment. Can Mr Van der Molen indicate who will decide the order of those 30-member debates? At the moment, it is up to the President of the Chamber and her staff to look at it. The chairman of a committee is, of course, an appointed member, a political member and should assess that. How do you see that? Who's gonna decide that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u23	Both the President of the Chamber and the Presidents of the Committees of Parliament are also members of a political group in this House. We only work here with people of a political colour, so that won't be a big change. Just like here, the moment of a request for a 30-member debate that is allocated will also have to play in a committee. Thirty Members' debates often focus on a topical issue which can be dealt with in the foreseeable future. In practice, we see that the Chamber agenda leaves little room for rapid planning. I have asked for a 30-member debate myself. That could have been removed at some point, but I should have waited months for that. The point I would like to make is that I do not want to deny 30 Members the right to have a debate on the agenda, but rather that I want to speed it up. At the same time, we need to make room here to do our job as a Chamber, because the cabinet too often gets away with the fact that we have to deal with very complicated, far-reaching laws with two fingers in the nose in a short space of time. I don't think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u24	If I understand correctly, Mr Van der Molen wants to do the coalition debates here in this Chamber and the opposition debates in a small room afterwards, calling on the Chamber's agenda to be so full. Now I would like to make a counter-suggestion that might be even better for the Chamber agenda, namely the debates that the coalition wants in that room and the debates that the opposition wants here in the Chamber. This will probably relieve the plenary agenda even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u25	Then we have a third category, which immediately complicates this proposal. There may also be debates that are requested by a majority, by a sum of coalition and opposition parties. The image is created that here almost everything goes along those lines. I can admit that this is often the case, but not exclusively. If I had wanted to avoid having 30 Members' debates here, I could have made a proposal to make 50 Members of this House or to abolish the means. That's not my point. Again, the MP may belong to a coalition party in one period and to an opposition party in the other period. I think you really should keep that in mind. I am concerned that we should relieve the plenary so that we have more time for thorough work and, on the other hand, give this means ample and timely opportunity at committee level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u26	I do not think I agree with this proposal. Then why does Mr Van der Molen not propose to raise the limit to 50 members? That is exactly what the Remkes State Commission, for example, is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u27	These debates have been held before in the Chamber. Smaller groups have said that if that threshold is raised, the possibility of asking for debates will be out of their reach. I am sensitive to that, otherwise I would have made that proposal again. In the debates on who holds the Presidency, for example, the question of how we deal with smaller groups has also been an issue. I'm gonna take that sense of the Chamber with me. That is why I do not propose to make it more difficult to request debates. In addition, I think that we should realise that we are going crazy in this house in the sense that sometimes we can get excited about small topical issues for days, when very far-reaching legislation actually goes through because we do not have enough time here to really dig it out with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u28	I don't think we're gonna agree, so I'm not gonna put too much energy into it either. I am curious to see how Mr Van der Molen looks at that, but my own view is that there are very other things that drive us crazy, for example that we are sitting here for nights waiting for a motion to be tabled or not. Let me speak for myself for a moment: that makes me crazy if I had the capacity to do so. So far I'm fine; I see all kinds of worried looks. How do you look at that? Is this the way to stop us from driving each other crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u29	I can assure you that I have never seen Mr Van Meenen mad. I have seen a lot of crazy proposals from Mr Van Meenen, but that is something else. I totally agree with you. It's a bit of an internal game to let us function deep into the night. I think that is one of the reasons why some Members of Parliament sometimes find it difficult to stand behind the chair or complain about the workload. I also think it's gonna drive us crazy. So if there's anything we can do about that, fine. And MPs attach to it in a different way. Mr Markuszower's proposal to register who has requested a debate first may be very important for one Member of Parliament. I'm really relaxed in that. I am never called upon in a supermarket as to whether I was the first to request a debate. But I don't want to go in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u30	I see Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u31	Isn't the difference that there is a big difference between plenary and the committee meeting? But maybe that's more like the outside world, you know. Could we find a solution in extending the standing of committees further? The committee meetings are now easy for outsiders to follow via the Internet and TV. If you look at foreign parliaments, you will see that committees are going to depend on which committee they have a strong stature and that it does not matter whether something is being discussed in plenary or in committee. What are Mr Van der Molen's thoughts on extending the standing of committees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u32	I fully agree with Mr Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u33	From Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u34	Van Otterloo, excuse me. I fully agree with Mr Van Otterloo. That is also in line with the proposal I am making. It is also a little culture that this, the plenary room, is the place to be. I have certainly experienced this as a starting Member of Parliament, but if you sit in the Chamber a little longer, you will see that a lot of pre-work and important things to achieve matters take place in the committees. But because we have come to regard these committees as some sort of pre-work club, the pressure has increased here. My position would be on behalf of the CDA Group that if we add this type of topical debate to the committees, we will no longer see the committees as some sort of plan B and that it should not be here by definition, if it is to stand out. Those two things are interrelated. If we start holding minority debates in the 30-member committee debates here, these committees will become more important. That is how I hope that we will contribute to a cultural change in the sense that our Chamber work does not mean anything until we do so here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u35	Proceed, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman. At the moment, despite the Van der Molen/Omtzigt motion of 2018 on this subject, the Chamber does not have a procedure allowing Members of Parliament to question the confidentiality of documents made available to the Chamber. The argument is that the assessment of confidentiality is not only up to the cabinet if the Chamber does not see the need for confidentiality in all reasonable terms. In this context, I refer to Article 68 of the Constitution. In considering the estimates, the President-in-Office of the Council announced a final discussion on a concrete proposal on this point, but that discussion has not yet taken place. The CDA Group reiterates the urgent request to decide on the proposal before the end of the year and to include it in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman. If it is correct, the revised Rules of Procedure will allow us to move forward for another 25 years. Small improvements will also be possible in the interim. That is why the CDA Group in the report called for the report of the Van der Staaij working group to be used as a starting point for an ongoing evaluation of the Rules of Procedure. We are thinking of a digital Rules of Procedure, which shows all the changes, both the realized and the unrealized. Such a digital Rules of Procedure should be complemented, for example, by precedents such as admission and dismissal, the profile of the President and the naming of political groups. In the opinion of the members, this would support the memory of the Chamber and provide an ongoing evaluation of the Rules of Procedure. Would the Bureau, for example, be prepared to examine these possibilities and make proposals to the Court? I am also curious to see how the committee itself looks at that. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to comment on the motion tracking system and the commitment registration. In the report we see that the D66 Group has also asked questions about this. As we all know, ministries deal very differently with the feedback of commitments and the settlement of motions. However, it is very important for our work as Members of Parliament that we should be able to follow up on our efforts in the near future. The CDA Group is curious when the Court will be able to better understand the outcome of motions and commitments and would, in any event, like to include commitments in the Rules of Procedure. We are also considering putting forward proposals for this. At least there is an amendment. I would like a response from the committee to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. It is remarkable that we talk about our own way of working all day. Finally! Right? Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Madam President. We, too, from the VVD Group, commend and pay tribute to all the work of this committee. It is certainly not easy to study 155 articles and to review them all. I am just paying attention to who has been on the committee, because if I have a question about the Rules of Procedure in the future, they will know it all by heart. There's no other way. If we want to play a good game in this political arena, under the inspiring leadership of our referee, Mrs Arib, then it is indeed extremely important that we keep our rules up-to-date from time to time. In this respect, the VVD Group very much welcomes the work that has been done. I would like to briefly remind you of a number of things: cleaning up and losing procedures that are no longer applicable, a better language, of course, which is always useful. However, we were wondering the following. That is a question to the committee. It says that there will be only one regulation of work, but there is another exception to that. This is seen in more simplifications and examples of efficient agenda implementation. Is there not a risk that this exception will be used again on a regular basis, so that it will eventually become more work arrangements? This also applies to a number of other points. I like to get a reflection on that. Finally, however, this is only an arbitrary order, the now famous trap axe of Mr Van der Staaij. I don't know if he took it. We also think it is very useful to reduce the number of requests for debate. However, we were wondering whether the overall objective of revising the Rules of Procedure, improving the balance sheet in the Chambers, was successful. I also refer a little bit to the presentation of the report. Then Mr Van der Staaij himself indicated that there was a very unhealthy pressure on work in the Chamber. Thousands of motions are tabled each year, many oral questions are put and unexpected votes take place. I would also like to mention the motions of censure. I have been in the Chamber for two years now, but on average I see a motion of censure once every two months. And then, of course, there is the increase in the number of debates. Yes, that is not yet the figure of Mr Van der Staaij, but I thought it was a remarkable thing, because that was not the case a few years ago. Mr Van der Staaij rightly said in his presentation that it leads to annoyances and bottlenecks, but at the same time he also said, and in that respect I sympathize with the committee, that it does not allow itself to be solved with rules; that is, above all, the culture of the Chamber. I agree with that. I also think that it is something that we should constantly take to heart. Good rules of the game are of course of fundamental importance, but in the end it is mainly about how we deal with them ourselves. Let me illustrate this with one more case. I have once again dived into history: the number of motions. I think that, as a Chamber, we should consider the number of motions. In 1961 it was 24, in 1981 it was 775, in 2006 it was 1,170 and last year the counter stood at 4,545 motions. If you're gonna pull this through, we're gonna end up with some that I don't think is workable anymore. While we're talking about culture... You can't get to the instruments of the Chamber so quickly. It is the right of Members of Parliament to table motions, but this leads to this kind of eccentric numbers. I think that, as a Chamber, we should consider this very carefully. Please reflect on exactly how much you have managed to improve the objective. At the same time, where the number of motions is growing, I believe that the number of amendments is decreasing. I don't have that in numbers. Because of our role as co-legislator, I think it is very important that we concentrate on amendments rather than on motions. There is, of course, a great deal to be done about legislation, including from the Council of State. Amendments are important. Perhaps then it would be a good signal if all kinds of amendments were suddenly introduced to these Rules of Procedure. I shall begin with the first one, which was already tabled on 4 March, namely the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop and myself. Let me briefly explain the thinking behind it. We were involved in a citizens' initiative, and citizens are presenting something that is dealt with in plenary, which has been debated in plenary for no less than three and a half years after the initiative has been tabled. That is also the philosophy or the idea behind our amendment, namely that it really needs to be speeded up. If people take the trouble to present a citizens' initiative, I also believe that we as a Chamber have a moral obligation to deal with it quickly. That is why we want to press for it to be dealt with in plenary within nine months of the committee's approval. Then there was a boom in other amendments. Even when I was sitting here, I saw another one appear. I cannot yet respond to that, but I promise my colleagues that I will take a serious and critical look at it. To be honest, I also expect the committee to say something about this. Finally, Madam President. The Rules of Procedure are typically rules that you can use on all daily Room Days. But during the corona crisis, we saw that you can deal with very exceptional situations. We have thought that it would be good to perhaps per motion... I look directly at Mr Van der Molen, because he also had such a thought. I agree that Mr Van der Molen and I are going to try to make a joint motion, precisely to limit the number of motions. It would be annoying, wouldn't it, two motions? A motion to instruct the Presidium, or I would like to ask it neatly to take a look at a Rules of Procedure in crisis time. We're in the corona crisis now, but who knows what the next crisis will bring. Attention should also be paid to digital meetings and the absence of MPs. Of course, within the limits of the Constitution, I say immediately; it could not be otherwise. Of course, the Bureau itself is about how they implement that motion, but I can imagine that they will set up a working group. In this connection, I would like to commend Mr Van der Staaij to the Bureau: the Van der Staaij II working group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. Well, the Bureau's gonna be busy for the next few months! Then Mr Van Meenen. I'm going to sit for it, Mr. Van Meenen. Mr Van Meenen has spoken for 20 minutes. I call Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just heard Mr Van Gent say that the number of amendments is falling. Well, it won't be up to me today. Mr. Chairman. The heading above the first thing I say is: 'Lofzang at the work of the Working Party on the Review of Rules of Procedure'. We are talking about this today. As other speakers have pointed out, it was high time for a review. The last overall revision of the Regulation took place in 1994, more than 25 years ago. None of us were in the Lower House then, not even Mr Van der Staaij. Well, that means something. Of course, since 1994, many minor changes have been made to the regulation or procedures have grown informally and organically in a certain way. Of course, they did not all have to be strictly codified. That does not make the regulations more convenient, but it was high time for a re-examination. For if we want to make our democracy future-proof, then we in the House of Representatives must start with ourselves by keeping parliamentary procedures and processes up-to-date and by ensuring that those rules are also clearly known and understandable in a current regulation, both for ourselves and for others. I would therefore like to thank Mr Van der Staaij and the members of the working group, the Members, for their hard work. The same applies, of course, to their official support. The working group's proposal contributes greatly to the comprehensibility of the regulation, with a clear new structure and a comprehensive explanation, but also with more modern language. How, for example, can you explain to someone what a general consultation or an AO is? Soon you will find the term 'committee debate', soon to be abbreviated as 'CD'. With me, of course, there is the question of what we are going to call a collection AO in future; I am now dropping a significant silence. A compilation CD, yes, yes. But seriously, Mr President, on the substance of the proposal, too, the proposal has some good points to make. I like to light out a few. For example, not scheduled debates will expire after 12 weeks. On request, this may be extended up to twice for 12 weeks. So that's up to 36 weeks in total. We asked the working party in writing what this would bring. Turned out what? Even with the maximum extension of all the debates, out of the 230 on the list, only 115 would remain, half of this huge queue. Of course, the cause of the many requests for debate is, but still. Hopefully, this provision will help us in future to be more selective, not to ask for a plenary debate, but rather more often to see whether we can be raised a little more quickly in committee and look critically at whether we can bring together certain debates. My group also supports the starting point of one plenary regulation, combined with the introduction of a committee on the regulation of work. This contributes to the predictability of our agenda and also makes it easier for smaller groups to be present when the most important decisions are taken in a committee. This is just a small anthology of the many good proposals. I am not going to list them all here, but at the same time we also see that the working group has run into its own limits. Not everything can be solved through the regulations. Motion inflation, scoreboard politics, the pressure on the plenary agenda, if we really want to tackle these issues, then there will also have to be a cultural change. Today's debate may not be so interesting for the average citizen, but the impact of what we are talking about here is essential for our own work. Let us therefore be open to each other's proposals, from opposition to coalition, without skepticism. Mr. Chairman. My group does have a number of proposals. With some of our proposals we hope to improve the way in which the Chamber operates, and with another part we hope to bring in a piece from outside the Chamber. Then I'll come to the hearing of candidate executives. "Getting in" may sound a bit cryptic, but I'm falling in with the door: together with GroenLinks, D66 wants to introduce a hearing of candidate directors. Our current formation process is still very closed and surrounded by mystery. That's not like this anymore. Directors play a central role in our democratic rule of law, but it is often unclear on the basis of which they were selected. Through a hearing, the Lower House is given the opportunity to question candidates for their suitability, both for the position and for the policy area. At the same time, the candidate executive will have the opportunity to present his or her vision and society as a whole will have the opportunity to get acquainted with a candidate. In this way, the hearing can strengthen democratic control and the mandate of the directors, while the power of appointment remains with the government and the King. It is a tried and tested recipe in Europe, local in municipal councils and after the elections hopefully also in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u41	Of course, I have not yet been able to examine and assess the proposal in detail, but there have been a number of questions raised by me, especially in the area of state law. We know, of course, that a minister must come to the Chamber and that a minister must also provide information to the Chamber, but of course a govern mentor who has not yet been appointed does not have to do so. Could such a ruler say: I don't really want to come? Or could he decide not to tell me everything? In fact, he is not yet accountable to the Chamber. My last question. I also understand that the authors of the amendment explicitly say that they do not want to take part in the appointment of directors, but in fact it can have that character. If someone has a very bad hearing, I can imagine that, perhaps not explicitly but implicitly, the Chamber will influence the appointment process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u42	In any case, this formal separation in relation to the appointment has been mentioned very clearly in the amendment. We'll leave it as it is. On the contrary, the Chamber should not appoint directors. But, of course, there are plenty of examples in other parliaments, and in the European Parliament, for example, where the presentation of the candidate or certain facts from the past that emerge play a role in such a way that the candidate executive ultimately comes to that conclusion. We have seen this in the recent appointment of the European Commissioners. No fewer than three European Commissioners could not get through. We leave that appointment explicitly where it belongs, so there is no misunderstanding about that. Then there's your other question. Yeah, you're right. You can't come to the hearing. Well, it's up to you, but it doesn't seem like an ideal picture, not a lightning start. But we're not gonna pick someone up with the long arm at home to make him appear here. That is not the purpose of this amendment. Unless you insist, you will have to table another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u43	I'm more concerned with the fact that you're just not responsible in a formal sense at the moment when you're not a ruler. This is also about providing information. I imagine there's some kind of moral pressure on you. But isn't there a construction possible in which you... People can also be called up by means of the right of inquiry. I am just quick to think; the amendment has just arrived. I would like to make one more point. You refer to other parliaments. That is always good because we can always learn from others, but I personally always attach great importance to having our own political culture, so the way in which we have always set it up. That really doesn't mean that nothing has to change, but simply saying "there's something that works well; let's just take it over"... Yes, I do attach great importance to how we have shaped our own democracy over the decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u44	Yes, we do have a culture. You could call that a culture of secrecy, of private life. My party attaches itself to it, and so do other parties, I estimate, to make that culture more open. In any case, we have to keep an eye on the Chamber's position. We have also taken steps in the past to strengthen the position of the Chamber. So you can always change a culture, and in this case I think that's a good thing. It's kind of weird that in such an open country, we can't figure out who the rulers are until they're on the docks with the King. We want to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u45	It's okay to think about this proposal, but I'm just gonna give you a fresh reaction from the liver. I'd like to leave it with Mr Van Meenen. As a Member of Parliament, you'll have your fingerprints all over it. You've spoken to the rulers in advance, you've asked them all things, and you've got good answers. At the end of the song is asked "is this lady the one to do it?" And then you say, "Yes, we have every confidence in that." Then there's some sort of parliamentary fingerprint on it. That could be followed by a debate in which the Minister is standing there in box K and saying: yes, but you asked me all the way and you thought it was okay and everything was fine! Do we not then make the political space for us as MPs smaller to say: I would care, huppekee? That's just an open question. In other words: this openness may still have the side effect of narrowing the political space for us to be really critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u46	That is certainly not the intention, but I can honestly see that it does not happen either. Mr Van der Molen takes no notice of the fact that at the end of such a discussion, the Chamber will decide whether it was right or not. No, we shouldn't. We must not judge. We need to ask questions. Others may well have an opinion on this, but I think it is better that, if others are already judged, that happens before the appointment, rather than after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u47	One last question, because unfortunately I have to leave the debate. I think it would indeed be right if the Chamber did not vote with one for or against. This is also difficult in relation to the independent position of the cabinet in appointments. But you are referring to the European Parliament. The knot is not finally cut through there either. There is a political problem on the table that is so great that someone decides to do it themselves or the President of the Commission withdraws someone. Parliament will not conclude, but if Parliament fails, it will have been an implicit assent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u48	All right, that's Mr Van der Molen's interpretation. Let me give you another example. He also has experience in municipal politics. He knows as well as I do that it is customary in the municipality where he lives and in the municipality where I live to organise this kind of conversation with candidate aldermen. That is, on average, very good for the position of the aldermen. It could be the same for our rulers. Now, the first encounter with a ruler is for all of us the moment when those who appear here for the first time in the maelstrom of our many debates. That's kind of crazy, actually. Why don't we organize that conversation in advance? I'm not afraid of it. I hope that we, or at least the next reformer, will find rulers who are not afraid of it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u49	I like it, but I do have questions about it. The ministers do not actually write a letter in the coalition agreement. That coalition agreement comes from the Chamber. That discussion will therefore not be about the content, because the cabinet is looking for dolls when carrying out the program of the Chamber. Such a conversation will always be very personal. Is it also Mr Van Meenen's intention to refer to the person of the minister, irrespective of the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u50	An introduction seems to me to be a very essential element. I think it would be good to hear from someone about the connection he feels or the experience he has with the policy area for which he becomes responsible. Those seem like nice things to hear. I think a lot of people like to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u51	That sounds a bit like a job interview, but we're not the application committee. There's a rule of trust. It doesn't mean we say we trust anyone. No, someone can function until we don't trust that regiment anymore. What I'm a little afraid of is that we're gonna have a conversation like this that's gonna be a personal conversation, and we're gonna give a little approval to someone. I wonder if that's not gonna sand a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u52	We're there ourselves, I'd say. I understand your fear, but let's make sure it doesn't. That is certainly not the intention of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u53	I'm a little struggling with this proposal. If you look purely at other parliaments, for example the European Parliament, or at how they do it with aldermen, it seems to be a very logical suggestion. But then today I also went to ask how that is going, for example with aldermen. Then you can see that this is a kind of job interview, also with judgments and condemnations. We have recent examples that show that politics did not always work out. It's not entirely value-free. My first question to Mr Van Meenen is therefore whether he agrees with me that such a debate is not entirely value-free. In fact, we see from aldermen that it can be quite judgmental and also harmful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u54	Well, harmful? I don't know those examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u55	I refer, for example, to Groningen. The debate was really not very pleasant there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u56	No, that may be, but there may have been good reasons for that, too. I don't know, because I don't know that debate. Of course, it's not value-free in the sense that nothing happens at all. Something is happening and many people, especially the non-Council members or the non-Parliamentarians, can give their opinion on it. Indeed, if someone fails completely there or if there is an integrity issue on the table that no one else knew, I think that's a good thing. So that might have an effect. We cannot draw the conclusion about this result here, but it might then be drawn in another place. I think there are best examples from the past where this could have been seen earlier. By the way, I'm not going to name it here, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u57	I am truly searching here, including in terms of integrity violations. However, I believe that a screening of a ruler should be carried out thoroughly and properly in advance. If there are things, you should know them in advance. It must then be clear whether they are causing any damage. But I also have to think very much about Secretary of State Van Huffelen, who, in a time of need after the departure of another State Secretary for the country and the party, takes on a very complicated file........................................................................................................................................................................................................ Instead of getting to work, the first thing she's allowed to do is join a balloteering committee. I'm really trying to get this in my head. How's that going? And is that really something you want in such a situation? Sincerely, help me make a choice in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u58	I may have put you on the wrong foot myself by saying in the Volkskrant that this is also the case with interim appointments, but if you look closely at the amendment, you will see that it is not. That is all about formation and what is happening there. The situation you just described would therefore not be covered by this rule. It concerns only the intended appointments to the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u59	My last hesitation is next. I've seen rulers start here who I thought were "well, that's gonna be fantastic" and who failed me. I do not mention names; that may have been in a previous period. I also have examples of ministers and secretaries of state who I thought were "mmm, I don't know" as I saw them grow in their role. So that too is still a dilemma for me. It's not all ministers or secretaries of state who were already there. In part, it is also side-instromers and people who worked a completely different profession. The first thing you ask of them is actually to have a public interview. That is the last hesitation in my mind whether or not to go for the amendment you are proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u60	I would say, let go of the thought of a job interview in your head, because it is not. The person the candidate is talking to is not the one who decides whether he or she will be there. But perhaps you should keep in mind the word "knowledge conversation." That sounds a lot more friendly. I think that this should be, above all, in the context of transparency, the further opening of the process that we have closed together. I hope that Mrs Kuik also agrees with me that it is quite crazy that at some point we see people appearing on the border with the King, when we have no idea who they are. Some we know very well, but others we don't know at all. How good would it be for Parliament, on behalf of society as a whole, to organise an introductory meeting? That's my intention, not to make it some kind of job interview here. It is not and it should not be; we are all there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yes, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mr. Chairman. Bringing it in from the outside: I'll stick to this theme for a while. D66 wants foreign Heads of State or Government to be able to make a speech in our Parliament. We have tabled an amendment to this effect together with the CDA, the Christian Union, GroenLinks, the Labour Party, the SGP and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. As you know, this is good practice in many other countries, such as the United Kingdom, the United States and Israel. This is not yet possible in the Netherlands. And say for yourself: how nice it would be if foreign government leaders could make a speech here. For example, Chancellor Merkel, who could speak here on our highest democratic stage. That's kind of hospitable. And it's a nice way to show how much value Parliament also attaches to good international relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u63	I hear Mr Van Meenen say that it is not possible. 9 May 1946: Winston Churchill, the united assembly. A year later, Smuts, President of South Africa. A year later, Mackenzie, President of Canada. Mitterrand was in 1984. I also found Kohl in 1995. I think there are possibilities. Then what does this add?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u64	If so, I withdraw the amendment immediately. I would like to hear the committee's opinion on this. Let's do it in a minute. Mr President, I will continue, if you will. Then I would like to make a few proposals which can help to improve our own working methods. Firstly, the tabling of motions in committee debates. Together with Mr Kuik, I am tabling an amendment to make this possible. In our view, it offers many advantages. First of all, it is much clearer for the public. We've all been there. How do you explain to them that a committee debate stops at the time it actually starts, at least that is how I feel to be continued in a mini-debate here in plenary weeks later? Secondly, it creates valuable meeting time. After all, there is enormous pressure on the plenary agenda. 230 debates are on the waiting list and there are only new requests. At the same time, we only have three days a week to meet in plenary. Then it is a pity and a shame that we still have whole rows of VAOs on the ride? For the debate, I asked the working group to find out. Every year, we spend more than 100 hours on VOCs, compared with some 400 hours on ordinary plenary debates. With this proposal, therefore, we are creating a quarter extra time for these debates. Thirdly, in our view, this proposal contributes to a better balance between the committee and the plenary. The working group also underlined it itself. I quote: it is important to look at the imbalance between the plenary and the important work in the committees. By allowing motions to be tabled in committee debates, we are once again making it clear that the parliamentary work outside this Chamber is important and deserves a good stage. By making committee debates on this point equal to the notation and the WHOs we are going to do so. Mr. Chairman. Whether in a VAO or later in a committee debate, we also spend a lot of time reading all the considerations and observations, etc. Wouldn't it be an idea to stop reading the whole motion and confine ourselves to the operative part? For example, they do it in the Hague City Council. Then we may be able to save hours a week, while all considerations simply remain on paper. I ask the working party whether it would be an idea to start an experiment with this in some committees. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about the imbalance between the plenary and committees. The working group wants more weight to be placed on the committees. He therefore proposed that the committees should have their own rules of procedure and that committees should now be allowed to decide independently to hold legislative consultations. My group understands these proposals and supports them, but certainly if we give them more powers, it is also time to align voting conditions and to reflect the democratic composition of our Parliament and the result of the election, and hence to vote in committee not on the absolute number of committee members, but on group and group groups, as in the plenary and in the e-mail procedure, which only sees the committees. In order to settle this, I have tabled an amendment. In the written input, the working group was critical of this idea. He stressed the nature of the committee, in which consensus is often sought. I agree with the working group that solidarity is important and that voting is actually a licence of inability, but it still happens. As far as I am concerned, they should never be counted in committee, but if so, let us at least be honest and representative. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The next important issue I would like to raise is motion inflation. Others talked about it, too. It is a multi-headed monster, which seems to be difficult to combat. You yourself have paid close attention to it. And yet I would like to take a small step forward with two proposals. The first is an amendment with Mr Van der Molen, who has already spoken about it. It is also a popular subject for Mr Sneller in box K, namely a public commitment register. In plenary debates and in committee debates, directors often make commitments to individual MPs or to the committee or the Chamber as a whole. If we are to be able to follow these commitments properly, better, up-to-date registration is of great importance. If we make that register publicly available on our website, Members of Parliament will no longer feel obliged to put their commitments in a motion as well, as an encouragement to the cabinet or something like that. You know the lines. I'm in on it myself. Then hopefully we can take a small step in combating motion inflation. Mr. Chairman. My second proposal on this subject is to publish, from now on, only a motion number, without the working title of the Registry. For example, they do so in the United Kingdom. At first you may think that such a motion title with a vote result is nice for the public, but the practice is unruly. We all know Lubach's show about self-promotion. The motion titles often do not cover or do not fully cover the load of the motion itself. As a result, the motion title attached to the vote on social media is used regularly against parties. I'd almost say abuse. The parties are often not against the basis of that title, but against the precise operative part or a certain recital. Or they're voting against it because the cabinet is already running something, or whatever. The motion title seems to provide an overview, but in fact leads to disinformation. My belief is that in practice motions are tabled purely to create that wrong picture. My proposal is therefore that, from now on, only the motion number should be published publicly. If a Member of Parliament wants to share the motion and the result with the constituents, it can always do so, but with a screenshot of the entire motion. I'd like a response from the working group. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, you have had or have had to listen to a whole list of proposals, but I should like to begin with the main subject. That is not the pressure on the plenary agenda, it is the pressure on the residents of this house: the MPs, the political group staff and the official support. Too often debates on very important issues, such as billions of aid packages to save jobs or measures to drag care through the crisis, are held at a time when speakers are tired and less keen, until the early hours. My colleagues from the CDA, or others, might say: an unChristian time. This does not benefit our decision-making, our policy and our external visibility. I would like to ask you, Mr President, whether you share this problem, and whether you are prepared to find a solution. I'm not asking for no reason. Apart from the quality of the debate... By the way, my clock hasn't run for a long time. I think that's very kind of you, Mr. Chairman. I have no idea where I am right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u65	I hope you end up somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u66	Well, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u67	Go ahead. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u68	I'm not asking for no reason. Apart from the quality of the debate, I am asking for it because I am seeing more and more MPs leaving this Chamber because, for some reason, membership of the Chamber is putting too much pressure on their health, family life, privacy or otherwise. I see colleagues temporarily disappearing because the balance is lost. On this point, too, I ask what responsibility the President sees for himself and what she intends to do about it. But I would also like to make a proposal myself. This proposal does not affect the end-time of debates, but it does affect the night-time presence of most of the residents of the Chamber. I'm just gonna call it the in-house cult. My proposal is that, as from the date of entry into force of this new regulation, I expect to vote only at two fixed times a week in principle after the elections: of course on Tuesdays, and somewhere on Thursdays, for example at 4 p.m. Those are the fixed times. Then there are votes. Of course, a single exception is justified by the President. Think of a debate prior to an international summit or think of the last votes before the recess. In the explanatory statement to our amendment on this subject, too, we take these exceptions into account. There are also things that we do not want to include in the exceptions, for example roll-call votes and votes on motions of censure. We must be careful of all our MPs, staff and official support. By removing the unpredictability of the voting time, we put an end to the practice that the whole Chamber should be present regularly and often for nothing until the early hours. As a result, their support does not always have to be "on." In this way, we make the work in the Chamber more pleasant, healthier and more attractive, also for new people from whom we would like them to opt for this beautiful but heavy profession. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a bit lighter: the financial control of our government. I started my speech with a joke about Mr Van der Staaij, but honest is fair, I myself have been involved for a while and I would also like to go through with it as a warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u69	That's nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u70	Well, thank you for looking at it like that. In 2014, together with former member Duisenberg, I developed the so-called Duisenberg/Van Meenen method, which by the way could be better called the Duisenberg method, because he had done 99% of the work and I mainly served to take cover in the opposition, but it was also worth it. Yeah, yeah, I'm just telling you the truth. In any case, this method sees the proper performance of our controlling task by critically reviewing the government's financial accountability. I think it would be a good idea to make this a standard in the annual plan of each committee. In fact, I think it is such a good idea that I tabled an amendment on this subject with GroenLinks months ago, my seventh in this debate. Mr President, you may regret it, but I am going to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Nice talk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u72	A proud shopkeeper has a nice window and we have Question Time at the beginning of the week. Now I'm interested in politics, but Question Time doesn't do me any good. I say this with all due respect, but viewers in the country are still looking at MPs who often do not know them, at questions which they are only moderately interested in and at ministers who then read paper from the officials. It is a dusty window of this beautiful shop. I have made many proposals to improve this in the past, but it does not want to come from it. So I'm just gonna try again. We are a proud parliament. Then at the beginning of the week we should also show ourselves at our best with the Prime Minister there in trade union K and the political leaders, the group chairmen here who kick off the week with topicality. Sometimes it happens that group chairmen put a question to the Prime Minister and then you see that things are going very differently, that things are getting much more fun; at least I think it will be much more fun. So how's it going now? We arrive here on Monday evening or Tuesday morning and then we all want to do something, say something and respond and we therefore ask for a debate. Yes, 230! I don't know if you've already told me, Mr. Chairman, but we're not gonna save that by March. Not a bit either, because we also get the budgets and so on. So I don't know if you've already told the MPs, but all the debates that are currently being requested are not going to be held, so I'm just gonna clap out of the school. But what would be so nice? Instead of all those excited MPs who want something on Tuesday, the political leaders can consult with the Prime Minister. Maybe that will lead to fewer requests for debate in the future. I don't know, but we can try. Has that been considered? Did you think about that? I have suggested it more often in the past and then there were always two objections. The first: yes, but asking oral questions is an individual right of an individual MP. Pride, pride! I don't even want to go into that. The second argument is that the Prime Minister may not like the fact that he does not know in advance what questions will be asked. Yeah, it's like that at every press conference, and that's where he'll answer them. So why not here? Why don't you have that lovely little Question Time organized like that? I don't know if the committee has thought about that. I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij and the whole committee very much. It's very ungrateful work. You've had dozens of meetings and done a lot of work. It is ungrateful work, but we are very grateful to you for that. There are very nice things in it, great things, such as the constitutional revision at second reading. Small things, like the difference between a hearing and a round table. It's all beautiful things. I think you've really managed to make the Chamber function well, better, for the next period. You should be proud of that. There's something else I've got to deal with. Of course, you have dealt with the written rules, but this house, this parliament, of course, hangs together with unwritten rules, which are also not codifying, because there are always exceptions and there is not always customization. Call it "gentlemen's agreements." "A political culture," you might want to call it. We are now in the second week and I already see MPs walking around with empty eyes that I normally see in the second week before the recess. I don't think that's healthy. The campaign's just getting started! We've got so much time left! We're allowed so long! I believe that there should be a hard struggle here in the debate, but what I see now is that there is a struggle as a kind of exhaustion. Every week we sit here until the middle of the night waiting for votes that may or may not come. And you don't know in advance if that'll be joint and several. It is, of course, also a special situation, because we now have a cabinet here, or a coalition, which does not have the majority. We have a corona time. But that is precisely what you should say: then, of course, the political culture will give us plenty of room to ensure that we all get through this in a healthy and decent way. It's now a blow of exhaustion, and I don't think it's healthy. A good MP is in bed at 11:00, I think. Then you can freshen up the next morning. There's no point in sitting down at 4:00 in the morning. What difference does it make? Even about a motion of censure. A motion of censure is not the right of the Chamber to vote. No, it is the right of the ruler to vote. And it seems to me very much that it matters very much whether you vote at 4:00 in the morning or at 10:00 in the morning. I cannot imagine the big problem. I am very pleased with the amendment that Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop have just tabled, and I do not know whether this can be dealt with exactly. I still have to study it. I do not know whether a codification, an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, can deal with this, or whether it is really a question of political culture. In the latter case, I am a bit more gloomy, in the first case, if it can be codified, I wonder if this could be a solution to the problem I signaled. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u74	Madam President, thank you very much. As you are used to from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we have also been extremely critical of this proposal. We have come to the conclusion that the committee led by Mr Van der Staaij deserves very much thanks for the thorough work they have done: raking, shaking, streamlining. There is a proposal for a Rules of Procedure which I hope will last another 25 years, because that is the average life span of the Rules of Procedure. So thank you for that. The committee-van der Staaij has done this quite nicely, because in the past too, the Rules of Procedure have been revised more than once by highly respected Members of Parliament. Mr. Chairman. Those changes to the Rules of Procedure sometimes lead to nice exchanges of views. You think, honestly, sometimes when you go through debates: was in the Rules just a ban on repeating what has already been said. To my surprise, when I went into the past a little bit, I suddenly saw a situation that was very recognizable. A little debate in 1851, between Groen van Prinsterer, the foreman, the founder or so you want the archdad of Christian politics, and Mr.Schooneveld, a liberal, elected in the district of The Hague. Mr Schooneveld underlined the wish to speak as little as possible, to be as short as possible and, above all, not to repeat. Green of Prinster responded as follows: "A useful reminder, but unsatisfying. In the absence of repetitions, all the rules would be contrary to any more effective discussion. To repeat that the repetition is not detected is a good lesson; but the strength of the argument lies precisely in the constant repetition of one good argument, and the honourable Member..." his opponent, Mr Schooneveld, is therefore '... an overachievable practice and too frank not to acknowledge that I am right'. So you can give your opponent of cotton in a beautiful, courteous way. It's rhetorical art, you might say. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is pleased that, under the guidance of colleague Van der Staaij, there is now another robust, clear picture. In this way, the constitutional duty of Article 72 has been fulfilled in a fresh way. The fact that it now has for the first time a nice and clear explanation per article is also extremely valuable. It has become a work of art, you might say, but if it works well, it will be mostly invisible. That's extremely valuable. Without these regulations, we stumble in such a parliament that you sometimes see passing by, where you tell each other with screaming, jerking the opponent's tie, throwing shoes or possibly a chair or with a robust fight the truth. Let's stay away from that a little bit. Mr. Chairman. We're still looking at a number of questions, and I'll look into them with you. First of all, the order of business in the committees. We will never have general discussions again, but committee debates. The SGP considers it a good initiative to give greater weight to these committee debates in relation to the plenary agenda. The organization of work in the committees will certainly be able to help with this. And yet we all know that an application for a plenary debate often leads to the question of whether 'we will not actually ask for a letter first, so that we can then see if there should be a debate'. How and how this will be different is the question for the committee. The second point is a fixed time for voting. In order to avoid repetition, I agree with Mr Van Meenen's speech. With him, I have tabled an amendment aimed at improving the way in which votes are held, in order to avoid situations that occur at regular intervals, i.e. until the short hours without the political need being really urgent. The third point concerns... Perhaps colleague Van Gent would like to interrupt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u75	Yes, first Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u76	I did have a question about this amendment. That is of course the advantage if there are two proposers: I could have done it with Mr Van Meenen, but I had already asked them a number of questions, so I saved them for you. I am also very opposed to these late votes, so I fully agree with the objective. But if you get a second fixed moment of vote, I wonder whether it is the intention that debates which have already taken place on Tuesday and Wednesday in that week should be put to the vote on Thursday. I fear that the workload will not be reduced, because then there will have to be group meetings again. I think that is an important point of consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u77	I did not discuss this in detail with Mr Van Meenen, but in my opinion that second vote is a kind of'saying', something 'which really needs to be done this week'. And then you have to make sure that happens at a decent time. And what can be quietly postponed and what has no urgency... Yeah, why don't you set that up for the next Tuesday, so that the groups can just put that standard into their discussion and take their meeting rhythm? But it's always by definition about things that, at least in my opinion, have a certain urgency. Before this week's sitting is closed, there must be clarity about that. Then it's gonna be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u78	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u79	Then there are the orphan proposals. I have also mentioned them in a different context. We appreciate the new regime for those orphan proposals, which is set out in Article 9 (25). The practice will have to learn whether proposals will eventually be renewed for another year. That's something to keep the finger on the wrist. A proposal, which is no longer a proposer, has in principle lapsed unless someone else takes it on board and assigns his or her name to it. That will go on infinity. I would like to say that we have to make sure that it actually comes to treatment, because otherwise it is simply another way to drag orphan proposals with you in, period. You shouldn't want that as a room. So the arrangement is sufficient at the moment, but I would like to keep my finger on the wrist. Then the point of the motions. I would like to join in the contributions of the various colleagues on this point when it comes to numbers. The only question I would like to add on the subject of motions is the provision in Article 8 (19) that motions should be brief and clear. I think that is an extremely interesting provision, but I would like to ask the committee: what exactly does that mean, and how are we going to shape it? How will the President ensure that the motions are brief and clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u80	And the interruptions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u81	And the interruptions, too. The next item is the debate on the amendment of the Constitution. We have always stressed that there should simply be progress in dealing with the constitutional change. The new Article, i.e. Article 9 (30 in the letter of amendment, provides a clear and, in our opinion, sound arrangement for this. However, we still have a question on the President's own motion. Does this mean that it will also be done under the name of the President? And what will happen if there is no MP who accepts the proposal to have it dealt with? I would like the committee's opinion on this. The threshold for urgent debates, a long list of planned debates, has also been discussed in detail. It is still a little unsatisfactory that we still have to deal mainly with our self-control in relation to the requests for debates. An increase in the standard could indeed produce something, but I would like to know from the committee what options have already been explored on this point and what options could possibly contribute to reducing that embarrassing list of urgent debates that are never going to come. Finally, Mr President. Good behavior. There has been an addition requiring Members of Parliament to behave properly. Undoubtedly there will also be a ban on challenging each other to a duel, as Minister Van Hall and MP Van Dam van Isselt did in 1846. That must have gotten us some exciting scenes. But we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would also like to see this as a means of abstaining from insulting language, swearing and so on. Is that the intention of the working group? Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to thank the committee very much for its robust work. I look forward to the answer, but above all I hope that the new Rules of Procedure will give structure and colour to many fine, passionate debates in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. It is also remarkable that Mr Bishop of the SGP, together with Mr Van Meenen of D66, has tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u83	It is even better that we have tabled an initiative legislative proposal together in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u84	I love to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u85	For the viewers at home, we have also submitted an initiative law together. And more importantly, it was also adopted by both chambers. Not everyone can say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u86	For the Acts: Mr Rog has also participated, I just heard. Thank you. Mr Van Haga. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr. Chairman. Power is a strange greatness. Unlike temperature, time or mass, power is difficult to measure or in a number, let alone it is possible to express it in a physical unit. But what we do know is that power constantly changes and shifts, mostly from the weaker to the stronger. We also know that power corrupts, and absolute power absolutely corrupts. Fortunately, our Constitution ensures that power is controlled at all times. The cabinet is controlled by 150 independent MPs, who have to vote without burden under Article 67 (3) of the Constitution. Emotionally, intellectually and financially without burden. Our Constitution therefore expects every Member of Parliament to make his or her own assessment without feeling the pressure of lobbyists, activist groups or threats or their own political party. Nor is it intended that the majority should create a system of first-rate MPs and second-rate MPs by means of protocols and regulations. Our democratic system functions in the grace of respect for the democratic majority of half plus one for the minority, who stands empty-handedly on the sidelines for four years. Now exactly this balance is at stake. Through internal political group protocols, MPs are silenced and voting without burden is under pressure. Party slaves follow the group under penalty of excommunication. Fortunately, however, the Constitution saves those MPs who keep their backs straight without burden. When Geert Wilders was thrown out of the VVD and went on as an independent MP, he was free to speak and he was just given the speaking time that belongs to a full MP, and rightly so. When Tunahan Kuzu and Selçuk Öztürk were thrown out of the Labour Party, they simply received a budget for the much-needed support that belongs to a full MP, and rightly so. In 2017, this was changed following a proposal from the Bishop working group, my predecessor behind this cathedral. In it it was arranged that MPs who voluntarily or involuntarily split from their old group would be severely punished and reduced to second-class MPs. A division should no longer be called a fraction, but should call itself a group. Oh, my God, what a sad change! The maximum speaking time of a splitter is halved to half the smallest fraction. This usually amounts to two minutes in the first period and 40 seconds in the second period, depending on the President's leniency, of course. But on Wednesday 19 August 2020, during the debate on salaries in healthcare, this was even one minute in the first term. A democratic low point, when you consider that a successful split-offer, Femke Merel van Kooten-Arissen, has made sure that the caregivers get €1,000 bonus on their own. She had only 60 seconds to make her point as a second-rate MP. The number of interruptions was also halved and the budget needed to pay a policy officer and further support was drastically reduced. Congratulations! The party cartel has spoken and won. Some animals are more equal than others. Members of parliament who vote without burden and who make independent trade-offs in the interests of the Netherlands are no longer present at the time. Group protocols and these Rules of Procedure lead to an erosion of our democracy. The philosopher Geerten Waling has written a beautiful book about this. He explained in detail why it was important to counter the power of the parties. The book has the exciting title Zetelroof. I highly recommend it. He also cites in his book the Groningen emeritus professor Douwe Jan Elzinga, who makes a fervent plea not to ban or restrict splitters. I quote: "Severing should be more appreciated as a safety valve to protect electoral democracy from unbridled party power." My own comrade Thierry Baudet has always acted against the excessive and corrupting power of the party cartel, and rightly so. I am very sorry that he is now in box K to defend these Rules of Procedure, but fortunately we will probably see him there after 17 March in the same subject, but perhaps in a different capacity: as Prime Minister. Of course, I understand the counter argument that split-ups often owe much to their party, which is true, but that does not justify absolute party power. The limitation of the rights of certain Members of Parliament through the Rules of Procedure is therefore a violation of the democratic nature of the House of Representatives. I do not have any amendments or motions for resolutions for the time being, but I would like to appeal to the Van der Staaij Committee, which has set up these Rules of Procedure, in order to ensure that the democratic balance prevails on this point. This balance is the balance between the uncomfortable feeling of Members of Parliament who divide themselves from their group on the one hand and the undesirable power of political parties on the other. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u88	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u89	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, the way in which this Parliament operates. The Forum for Democracy is a democratic renewal movement. We stand not only for renewal in society but also in this stuck, poaching parliament. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the initiators who have worked to improve the functioning of the parliamentary process. For this, there is also a word of thanks to the legislative lawyer, Alexander de Ridder, who has supported the initiators. A special welcome I give to my party leader, there in box K. This is a wonderful moment for me to get used to the fact that I can often appreciate him in such an elevated position. Today I am exactly 1,268 days active in this honorable office. I will not deny that I have regularly been surprised at the apparent usefulness of hours of meeting, but fortunately there are some good improvements in the proposal we are discussing today. By far the best amendment I have come across is the improvement in the course of hearings. Experts are regularly brought to the Chamber to explain their knowledge in rooms above, to be heard. That's how it works now. Members of parliament are allowed to ask a question, all of which are then grouped together. The person who has been heard may choose from among all the questions which he wishes to answer. That's how the hearer gets away with it if he doesn't answer the difficult questions. That's very frustrating, even in my position as a criminal attorney, because you have to make the witness sweat. You'll never get it this way. Everything will be bundled and disposed of. At the most, if time permits and the President is in a favourable mood, a follow-up question may be asked by a Member of Parliament, but it may also be answered together. So even then, the heard can choose which questions are best for him. That makes it virtually impossible to get to the heart of the matter with the questioner. It's not possible to ask for real. It is not possible to obtain real information. This often results in pure frustration of the truth finding, which should be the focus of a parliamentary hearing. My party leader has proposed an amendment to Article 7.34 in order to take this process seriously. In the new second paragraph, the current practice of hearings is expertly corrected. If this proposal is adopted, so-called Senate Hearings will be introduced, following the American example. Then it is possible to immediately ask one-to-one questions to the experts during hearings, so no bundling of questions and immediate answers, including follow-up questions. So we can really see through experts and they are effectively forced to really answer our questions; the truth first. Not all proposals lead to improvement. I agree with Mr Markuszower's objections to the proposal to allow the organisation of work to take place in plenary once a week. It is very important for Members of Parliament to be able to request a debate in plenary as soon as, in the opinion of the Member of Parliament, there is reason to do so. I therefore urge the initiators to reconsider this aspect. Democracy Forum stands for transparency, honesty and concrete solutions. These changes will bring us another step closer to a functioning democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. We have another speaker. That's Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA, but she signed up later, which is why you don't know. I call Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would indeed be in the debate on Lesbos, but that has now been postponed to 5 p.m., so I have every reason to be here anyway. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the working group for this hard work. The people who know me a little bit know that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber are not necessarily my hobby. Fortunately, there are other people who are very skilled at that. I often prefer to put the rules into my own hands, but I also understand that some form of rules can be quite helpful for a democracy of 150 people plus the whole household that operates around it. Nevertheless, we have tried to look carefully and carefully at the work done by the working party. We have also asked a number of questions. This has led to two letters of amendment, for which I am grateful. Nevertheless, I would like to ask two specific questions, and I would like to respond to some of the proposals that have been made. My first question concerns the advisory right of the initiators of a legislative proposal. I have had the opportunity to make a number of own-initiative legislative proposals myself. One of them was about a ban on undermining organisations. We have also offered this for consultation, but that does not guarantee that advisory bodies, the public prosecutors or other parties will also respond automatically. My question to the working party is whether we can guarantee an automatism for that. There are a number of other issues about legislative initiative that could perhaps be better anchored, for example: who did you ask for advice and what did the lobby path look like? We know that finances always remain a difficult thing, also because it is difficult to foresee. But even if you do it in consultation, that doesn't automatically mean that you get this part of advice. I'd like a response from the working group. The second point we have raised is the amendment with Mr Van Meenen on the fact that you should be able to table motions immediately after a debate. I can see the disadvantages of that. That may provoke more motions rather than more reflection, but certainly the less politically obvious debates may be a little smoother and more beautiful in this way. This can buy you a certain amount of time. Those were my two specific questions to the working group. A number of proposals have been tabled, for example to vote on more fixed times. I am in favour of that in itself, but you have to see if that means a restriction. I will discuss this with the group. I have indicated my hesitation in hearing candidate directors. I also take that back to my group. I see pros and cons. It's nice as an introduction, but you have to do it very purely if you want it to remain a real acquaintance, otherwise it will soon be a job interview and I don't know if that is necessarily an advantage for the quality of our work. There was also the suggestion, for example, to skip the operative part. I do not know whether that will be helpful, because that simply means more speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u92	The recitals, not the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u93	Oh, the considerations. I do not think that this is more helpful, because that simply means that more time is required, and that is at the expense of the motions. By the way, I myself sometimes use my speaking time to sneak away some considerations, but I do not think that is something anyone would like to do. In short, I see that the members of the House have dealt very seriously with the work of the working group. We have looked very carefully and critically at what is found and what can be supplemented. I would therefore like to thank the members of the working group very much. I don't know if this will remain a static whole for the next 25 years. It will always be a subject of discussion, but it will help with regard to the constantly changing environment and the state of our democracy, in which the extremes are somewhat increased and the fragmentation is greater. That forces us to keep looking at this critically. So thank you very much again. With your permission, I'm going to leave the room now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u94	We're already done with the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u95	Oh, yeah, we're just doing the first term. The answer will of course come later. Excuse me, my mistake. That's why you need the rules!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. It is true that this brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-6.u97	We will, in close consultation with the Van der Staaij working group, plan a new date on which the working group will have the opportunity to answer all the questions that have been asked. Thank you very much for that.
