ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u1	I would ask Members to keep a distance of 1.5 metres in the Chamber and, if necessary, to go outside the Chamber in the event of a debate. Thank you. It is now the subject of joint consideration of the legislative proposals Merging of the municipalities of Appingedam, Delfzijl and Loppersum (35344) and Splitsing of the municipality of Haaren (35345).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u3	Mr. Chairman. The split of the municipality of Haaren seems in many ways by the book, or by the book. the policy framework. The initiative comes from the municipality itself and a referendum was held in which the inhabitants of Haaren could express their opinion on the reclassification. Moreover, only a narrow majority appeared to be in favour of the reclassification. If the Minister had not abolished the national referendum, she would simply have ignored or reversed the result in a national referendum. Nevertheless, the inhabitants of the other municipalities involved in the reclassification have not been able to express themselves in such a referendum and the problems that the present municipality of Haaren has not solved will now arise. Last week, for example, a motion of censure was tabled against the Haarense education alderman because after many years the problem with the new construction of the primary school in the village of Esch has not yet been resolved. In the Brabants Dagblad it was concluded: "There is therefore no clarity for the school for the division of Haaren. We saddle Boxtel with this problem." Another unsolved problem of the municipality of Haaren is a backlog in housing status holders. The PVV Group fully understands the current municipality of Haaren that it cannot or will not give away these houses to asylum seekers, while there are hardly any houses available for its own house seekers. At the same time, we do not want the inhabitants of the municipalities that Haaren is divided into as of 1 January to be burdened with this delay, and so there are even fewer houses available to them. A legal system does not appear to exist for this purpose in the case of a division of the municipality. In the reply, the Minister states: "The municipality of Haaren expects to achieve its mission in 2020. This is the responsibility of the municipality of Haaren. If the housing mission is not achieved, the inter-administrative supervision invested in the province will enter into force." Can the Minister indicate what the expectation is that Haaren will meet her mission by 2020? After all, the summary of the municipality-by-municipal data on the accommodation of licence holders of the Ministry of BZK of 1 July of this year shows that the municipality of Haaren has housed only one holder for the first half of 2020. Why then would it be expected that the next half of 2020 will be able to achieve the targets? The municipality itself states that Haaren has to do with a small number of house changes. And then the Minister states that if the housing mission is not achieved, inter-administrative supervision will enter into force. But what should that monitoring take effect after 1 January 2021? To a no longer existing church? After all, according to the plans, hairs will be abolished on 1 January. Moreover, the current municipality of Haaren has been under active inter-administrative control of the province since 27 March 2018. By letter dated 26 March 2020, the Province of Noord-Brabant ruled that Haaren did not fulfil the mission, placed this municipality on step 3A of the intervention ladder and noted that it would be eligible even for the next step, 3B (administrative consultation). According to the provincial supervisory letter, Haaren intends to have the delay in the assignment taken over by the host municipalities after the reclassification, but there are no concrete agreements to this effect. Can the Minister indicate to what extent agreements have been made on this matter? The Minister stated in her reply: "The Housing Act 2014 does not provide a specific solution for the remaining tasks at a split. A logical solution is also to divide the remaining tasks in proportion to the number of residents moving to the receiving municipality. It is also possible to transfer tasks in close consultation with interested parties. This requires tailor-made work in good consultation between the parties concerned. The 2014 Housing Act provides for the assignment applicable to the host municipalities in the year in which the reclassification was implemented. The Housing Act 2014 does not provide a specific solution for remaining targets at a split.' Mr. Chairman. The Minister may find this a "logical solution', but it is also conceivable that the host municipalities will not wait for a heavier task. It is not a logical solution to keep their residents on waiting lists for social housing longer and to give away the few social housing units to status holders, as well as to saddle the municipalities with all the other misery that the housing of status holders entails, such as welfare benefits, integration paths, family reunifications and often nuisance and alienation on their own streets for residents. It could be even worse: the housing of a violent, disturbed status holder on your street without the authorities involved exchanging sufficient information and taking action. A report presented this week by the municipality of Bernheze speaks volumes about this. The terrible result of such malpractice has resulted in the murder of 18-year-old Rik van de Rakt from Heesch by the 25-year-old Sudanese status holder Abdallah H., who was assigned a house in the municipality of Bernheze last January after he had already committed abuse in an azc. What municipality can now take responsibility for housing such potential time bombs, whose privacy is better protected than the security of our citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u4	I thought we were talking about splitting up a community. My opening question is: what is the relationship between the law now before you and your reasonably well-known rhetoric regarding your aversion against asylum seekers and status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u5	That's obvious. A division of municipalities must be properly arranged. There is quite an open end here in terms of the distribution of status holders. No agreement has been reached on this and there is no legal provision for it. That's the point I want to discuss here. That's the reason to quote this. I do not want municipalities to have to take over those status holders, to be saddled with these problems, even though they have no part in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u6	Let me just say that, whether we are talking about abortion, euthanasia or nuclear energy, Mr Van Hattem is always able to vent the same rhetoric about asylum seekers and status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u7	Mr. Van Hattem, you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u8	I must also note that the VVD has been looking away for years. Mr. Chairman. I can tell you what the neighbour of this status holder in the Brabants Dagblad said: "Do you know where I just moved from? From where the azc would be in Heesch. I demonstrated so much back then. I've been to all the meetings. Do you know how many times they told us we didn't have to worry? There are so many Dutch people waiting for a cottage and this guy gets one just like that. It's really horrible. It's gonna be your kid." And that is not what the inhabitants of the receiving municipalities around Haaren are waiting for. So what is the consequence of the assignment if, for logical and legitimate reasons, the host municipalities do not want to participate in such a voluntary take-over? Can the Minister rule out the possibility that higher authorities will use administrative coercion towards receiving municipalities to include more status holders? The PVV will shortly present a motion to redistribute the remaining assignments for the housing of status holders after the split between the host municipalities, but to remove them altogether. One more point about municipal finances. The Minister states: "We have not received any signals from the municipalities concerned that there have been developments since the adoption of the reclassification advice, which has given rise to uncertainty about Vught's financial position in relation to the reclassification." In the financial system there is another bottleneck for Vught. Vught makes a regular budget for four years, but the addition of Helvoirt will only allow for a budget change including Helvoirt in January 2021. As a result, Vught doesn't know exactly what the extra income and expenses are for the new part of the municipality from January onwards. Only when the new municipality is a fact can the budget for the new municipality be established. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether Vught and the other municipalities concerned could not be more clear about this sooner and more appropriately, so that they do not have to unexpectedly confront their inhabitants with possibly much higher local burdens. For Vught this certainly seems important to me, because with Helvoirt she also gets the Haarense part of the conversion of the national road N65 within their municipality, a very large-scale project that has a great impact in many respects. Mr. Chairman. Then about the new municipality of Eemsdelta. In the reply, the Minister states: "The Members who are to speak rightly point out an omission in my previous reply. The answer to the survey question shows that four out of five ambitions are about as often identified as the main challenge and that 'future-proof care and support' are clearly mentioned more often. The ambition'sustainability and energy transition' is referred to in the reclassification opinion as the fifth "sustainability' and hence the last "ambition'. The PVV is pleased that the Minister admits that there was a piece of fake news in her response and that this has been corrected by the attention of the PVV's fact-checkers. It is clear where the priority lies for the inhabitants: clearly in the future of care and therefore not in the sustainability and energy transition. Can the Minister indicate whether the citizens' ambitions for good care are clearly pursued and the ambitions of the climate-forced countries are not pursued, and that the municipality is not burdened with priceless RES ambitions, the Regional Energy Strategies? As far as the financial future of this new municipality is concerned, there is already a false start with large financial deficits. We must also let go of the illusion that reclassifications can solve financial deficits. In many cases, the cost of reclassifications on balance is greater than the revenue. That is why the question to the Minister is: what is the real added value of such a reclassification if a financially weak municipality arises directly? So what's left of the supposed additional administrative power? What is really being solved with this scale increase? Mr President, as far as first time is concerned. I'll file the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Bezaan and Mr Ton van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no formal provision for the allocation of a remaining housing task for status holders at the time of the division and dissolution of a municipality;]] [[Considering that the Municipality of Haaren is likely to have a residual assignment of housing status holders on 1 January 2021 in its planned abolition;]] [[Whereas host municipalities involved in the division of the municipality of Haaren should not face the remaining housing task of status holders;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish any remaining housing mission of the Municipality of Haaren as a whole on 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35345-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u10	I have another question for Mr Van Hattem. He just indicated that administrative power and cost advantages in scaling up are very often a wash nose. I fully agree with that. But how do you assess the fact that in the municipalities of Appingedam, Loppersum and Delfzijl there is at least the basis for this? I've contacted all kinds of local parties there, who are already organizing themselves. There is actually little dissonance about the aggregation. From the bottom they seem to be locally enthusiastic about this. There doesn't seem to be much resistance. Do you judge that as positive, or do you say: you still shouldn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u11	The PVV is always very clear when a reclassification could be possible: if there is real support, which has been surveyed in a referendum, for example, and if the people have been able to express their opinion. In the case of the reclassification of Appingedam, Loppersum and Delfzijl, there has been no local referendum. It has only been determined by the municipal councils. There have been some residents' meetings and so on, but that is not the same as a referendum. Well, that makes it something else. Another important aspect that is going on here today is that it has only become clear recently, last month, that there are going to be major financial deficits. So we are going to have a financially particularly weak municipality, where local burdens, especially for certain groups such as farmers, can rise more rapidly. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the problem is that the basis for acceptance must be measured by referendum. This has not happened in the new municipality of Eemsdelta, as it should be mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u12	I would like to say two more things about that. First of all, these financial problems will not be solved if we do not re-assess them. I think they're gonna be there too if those three municipalities stay loose. Secondly, I agree with you that a referendum for this is a good measure, but in this case there is no discord either. There's no rebellion. There haven't been any resistance. If there were a broad call among people to hold a referendum... But there isn't. If there is none of that, and if everyone seems to be okay with it, do you still think we should say no here in the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u13	It should not only depend on the citizens' initiative for a referendum to take place. I also think it is a responsibility of these municipalities themselves, if they take such a tough step, to actively question their people in a referendum. They shouldn't say: you have to organize it yourself. That is very clear to the PVV. That initiative must be taken by the municipalities, but that did not happen in Appingedam, Delfzijl and Loppersum. I think that this is a factor which is essential in order to say that the basis of support has not been clearly measured. In the reclassification advice, I noticed that surveys have been carried out. In it, however, the citizens pointed out the disadvantages. One of the concerns was that the municipality would be farther away from the inhabitants. So that's a feeling that's alive. There were virtually no benefits mentioned by the citizens in the reclassification opinion, but many disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'll take a look at the minister. I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u15	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can make it pretty short, I guess. I will, of course, answer the questions put, but as an introduction I will answer the following. Indeed, both of these reclassification proposals are the result of a clear choice of the local councils concerned, which again rely on the wishes of their inhabitants and the discussions they have had. They have said that in order to achieve a truly good service and to have an appropriate supply of services, it is better to do so in another administrative constellation. So I think it is actually nice examples of reclassifications from the bottom up, in which the councils themselves have decided what is appropriate for their administrative future. This has been preceded by careful procedures, including support. In the case of Eemsdelta, even its origins are in a section from 2012 in which the municipalities and the province have looked at what is needed in the province. Eventually, the councils of Appingedam, Delfzijl and Loppersum considered that a reclassification is really the best solution for their residents, also given the great societal challenges that there are of course. In the case of Haaren, discussions with the residents showed that there was insufficient support for a simple merger with a neighbouring municipality, but that there was support for dividing it up. There too, the different orientations on neighbouring municipalities of the different cores of Haaren played a role. It is therefore good to see: a careful process, broad support and a clear desire of the municipalities concerned to strengthen their administrative power. The government therefore considers that these proposed reclassifications should continue. The fact that we are now living in a very different time, with a corona crisis and financial pressure on municipalities, does not change that. Let me move on to that financial future. Mr Van Hattem also mentioned this. I am of the opinion that the addition of parts of Haaren will not burden the municipalities of Boxtel, Oisterwijk, Tilburg and Vught, and that it will not mean a change in their financial perspectives and their sustainable governance. That is not a concern from those municipalities either. They are financially sound enough. It is, of course, the case that as Minister for the Interior, I always have to take a good look at the province as a supervisor, of course, and also at the financial positions in general. As I have just said, it is not an easy time for many municipalities in the Netherlands. Then there is the housing task Mr Van Hattem talked about. He has made a lot of comments on this. He also has an opinion on this, but Mr Van den Burg has just intervened on it. So let me confine myself to just being factual. The Housing Act includes how to deal with targets in a reclassification. The only thing the law really doesn't provide for is how to deal with this at a split. That's because a split doesn't happen very often in our country. But that Housing Act does provide direction for interested parties to come out of it together at a split, so in other words you just look together what's fair, how to get it together and how to make sure it goes well. So good consultation. Not to create a very specific arrangement for each particular item, but simply to come together when reorganising in consultation. Then there is no need whatsoever for supplementary legislation or anything like that. A task for status holders, which is what it is all about in this case, is ultimately simply a responsibility of a municipality itself. So as long as the municipality exists as it is today, it lies there and when the reclassification is in progress, it passes to the new municipalities. The municipalities involved can solve this very well themselves. There's no need to impose it from above. Inter-administrative supervision sees the realisation of legal targets. After 1 January 2021, therefore, a new task will be created whereby inter-administrative supervision will apply to the new municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u17	That mutual consultation and not imposing it from above are precisely the problem, because the mission is always imposed from above under the Housing Act, from the Reich and in agreements with the COA on the housing of status holders. If there is no solution by 1 January, an initiative must be taken from the Empire. The province oversees it. The municipality of Haaren has been under the supervision of the province in this area for two years. It appears that almost no effort has been made in the past year, so I expect that no or hardly any further steps have been taken by the end of this year. And if that's the case...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u18	So your short question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u19	What does the Minister say? Then what is being done with this task? Will it be redistributed all over the country? Will it then be redistributed to only the surrounding municipalities? After all, this is something that is not done by mutual agreement, but is imposed from above.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u20	I do not agree with Mr Van Hattem because that is not how it works. We have status holders. My colleague from JenV will see to it that accommodation can be found as soon as possible, and we agree on this. The provinces see what can be done in their province and the municipalities see what they can do in their municipality. In the end, it will all benefit us in this country if that accommodation is properly regulated and people who obtain such status can flow quickly, so that they can also integrate, settle down and get to work. In this respect, we, as a country, of course have a task and several municipalities also have a task. And it depends a little on the location of the municipality, on the possibilities that a municipality has how fast and how much can be realized. That's just the general system. That works well in itself. All we have is a bottleneck, and it's in the housing market. There's a bump in the housing market. Hence, it is quite difficult for some municipalities to achieve this. But we're never gonna sit on a council chair. We are simply asking everyone who has a role in this to take responsibility for that. And when there's a reclassification, municipalities just make a neat list of topics that play there. That may be the issue, but it may also be the question of the police region or the security region, and it may also be about the GGD. It's just something that's being agreed between us. And at some point, if this Chamber agrees and the reclassification becomes a fact, these agreements will have to take effect, and in this case from the province, the new municipality will be discussed with the new municipality about the position at that time and the new targets that may have to be achieved for next year. That's how it works and that's how it's gonna work here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u21	This is how it works as far as agreements are concerned that the municipality makes in autonomy. The Minister mentions different arrangements, common arrangements that concern a municipality from its autonomous position. But a task assignment is not something that concerns a municipality in autonomy, but something that is imposed on the municipality from the Empire. It's called a "task" for a reason. A table is simply provided: you must have housed so many status holders for that and that date. And if it didn't happen before that and that date, then it adds up again. And as of January 1st, when the municipality of Haaren disappears, there is still a remaining mission, and no one knows exactly how to distribute it. When, for example, the city of Vught says: boys we are not waiting for, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u22	Mr. Van Hattem, I'm going to stop you anyway. What you're saying now belongs in your second term. An interruption is for a short supplementary question. I'd be happy to give you an opportunity to put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u23	It was also a rather comprehensive response and a rather comprehensive response from the Minister. But I think the point is clear. It is about the difference between the autonomy and the mandate that is imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u24	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll continue with the other questions, if you don't mind. A few questions have been asked about the Eemsdelta. The question was: why do you think that in this case it will lead to a better living environment, better governance and an improvement for the inhabitants? In fact, my most important "meter" at this point is that the municipalities and the inhabitants themselves share this view. They say that there are very great challenges in this region, and by going together, we are stronger and better serving the interests of our inhabitants. We abandoned the idea a long time ago that much bigger is always much better. That's not true at all. But a certain size can really help to make municipalities less vulnerable and to achieve a greater degree of specialisation for their residents as well. And I think it is always important for every municipality, including large municipalities that already exist, to ensure proximity to government. So you have to be close to your people. That applies to Rotterdam, and that also applies to the Eemsdelta. That is the potential I see in this added value. If you look at the advice, I think we can trust that they've found that balance right. I would also like to comment on the point made by Mr Van Hattem, who accuses me of spreading fake news. Well, I really want to fight that with strength. But nothing human is strange to us: there's just been a mistake snuck into that piece and we corrected it as soon as we found out. Indeed, health care is very important for many people. It is now included in the five priorities. I apologize for the omission, but I'm not gonna let you talk me into fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u25	That's what brought you to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u26	I just want to say a few words about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u27	I would like to begin by giving Mr Van Hattem the floor for another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u28	I have a brief interruption on my point that has not just been answered. For I had asked for the difference between that autonomy and the mandate, which is indeed imposed by the Empire, which also relates to the motion. I would like a clear answer from the Minister. How does it view this relative to the autonomous role, which does not apply in this case? It is something that is imposed by the Empire as a task; a municipality cannot make free agreements about it. There is a task, and it must be carried out from within the Empire. So how's this gonna be fixed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u29	Because I think that is what I have said in my very first sentence, municipalities make agreements on this matter between themselves. Then there's the motion. Since it's already been filed, I can immediately report that I'm deceiving her. The municipalities themselves are responsible for this and they have to deal with it on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u30	Thank you, Minister. We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still find it a worrying situation. There is a task imposed by the Empire in a municipality. The minister says that the municipalities should resolve that between themselves. When municipalities later say "thank you the cuckoo, we are not waiting for extra status holders in our municipality, as we ourselves have too few rental homes, we do not want to be saddled with the problem that Haaren has not been able or wants to solve," what then? What's to be done? Can the Minister indicate who is going to act? Is the Empire going to make a move at once, and will the minister then impose additional targets on the municipalities? Can the Minister rule that out? Because if "mutual consultation" means that it is mutually determined that the housing mission is not fulfilled, then that is also a desirable outcome for the Minister. Or does that mean they don't have that freedom anymore? That is an essential question as far as I am concerned. I asked another question about the financial position of the municipality of Vught on 1 January. They would like to have a little more clarity about this. Can the Minister indicate at what time there will be more clarity about the situation surrounding this reclassification, if Helvoirt is added? 'Cause there's a big empire project there, the N65. Does that have any consequences for the municipality, so they can act there in time? Then I'll come to Eemsdelta. Last week there was another article in the media, on RTV Noord, to read: "Great concerns about millions of shortage of Eemsdelta: 'afraid that citizens will suffer'." At the moment, you have to merge as municipalities, knowing that it will just become a financially weak municipality. Are we not going to get back to the situation in which there is a discussion of: yes, the municipality cannot fulfil its tasks, it cannot provide services? Maybe we should go back to scaling up. I think it is a good signal that the Minister says that bigger is not always better. This scale increase is now being presented as from the bottom, but as the minister himself points out, there has been a report from the province of Groningen, in which all these municipalities have been pushed towards scaling up. It is still a process that has been steered from above in the longer term. The population is probably gonna let it get over them, when we should actually have the guts to say: in any municipal reclassification we just hold a referendum by default, then we know at least what the people really want, and we do so in all the municipalities involved, not only in a municipality that is split up, like in Haaren, but also in the municipalities that have to receive, like Boxtel, like Vught. If a referendum takes place by default, we'll know what the locals want. Now that that referendum has not taken place, I come to the weighing-up of these two legislative proposals. In the case of the municipality of Haaren, the inhabitants of the surrounding municipalities that form part of this reclassification have had no opportunity to find any of this. That is a reason for me not to support this proposal. For the municipality of Eemsdelta, no referendum has taken place in the three municipalities concerned, so the PVV will not support this proposal either. Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u33	Mr. Chairman. Here too, it can be fairly short. With regard to the Eemsdelta and the financial question put by Mr Van Hattem, I do not intend to compensate the Eemsdelta individually financially, because the reclassification does not lead to a deteriorating financial position other than friction costs, but these friction costs are always compensated by an additional payment from the Municipal Fund. However, as I said in the first term, I am always in conversation with fellow governments to see what problems there are along different lines. These can be occasional or structural. We are looking at the recalibratement of the Municipal Fund, we are looking at the staircase-on-strap systematiek and we have already made a first instalment in the compensation for corona measures. In general, it is important to keep an eye on this. As far as Vught is concerned, I have already answered that, namely that there are no signs of deterioration as a result of this reclassification and division. We simply apply the normal deadlines for budgetary matters concerning this new municipality or this division of the municipality of Haaren. So there is no additional provision there. As far as the holding of a referendum is concerned, I know that Mr Van Hattem attaches himself to it and perhaps wants to impose it from above, but of course there is that possibility, and municipalities can choose it themselves. Municipal councils can choose, there may be a request for it. That has not happened, but that is their choice and not ours as far as I am concerned. Finally, coming back to the first point, a point to which Mr Van Hattem always devotes a great deal of time: the status holders. I repeat my point, it is up to the municipalities themselves and we are confident that they will come out themselves. The single fact of the reclassification? Yes, as soon as it comes into force, business will be done with the new municipality on the same issue and I am confident that it will be handled in a proper manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u34	Did that bring you to the end of your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u36	Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u37	Yeah, another interruption. I have to ask the Minister a question anyway. If the municipalities among themselves say "we are not going to redistribute the remaining tasks of the municipality of Haaren to be dissolved," if that is the outcome of the mutual consultation, is that an acceptable outcome for the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u38	I don't have that expectation at all. As I said, there are several issues on which municipalities say they are going to make agreements. The same applies to this subject. Precisely because the municipalities have faith in the power they have to get out of there themselves, including on this subject, I am not going to anticipate an outcome that I do not expect at all on the basis of the signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u39	I have to say that there is still a gap in the law in this area. There is no legal provision. At the same time, it is something that is imposed on the municipalities. The Minister does not want to anticipate it, so I would call on the municipalities: above all, do not take over this task and wait about what the Empire is going to come up with. If that's the outcome, will the Minister accept it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u40	That's also a like-dan situation. Mr Van Hattem can, of course, say what he wants in his speaking time. We know what he thinks of status holders. I do not go into the subject at all, I deal with the system of reclassification and the fact that municipalities make agreements between themselves, including on this subject. I'm holding on to that, and I'm not going to anticipate another situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u41	Mr Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u42	I hear "mutual agreements," but then they must have a framework of the Empire in order to be able to make agreements among themselves. If the Minister says she's not ahead of anything, then perhaps the deal as of 1 January is that we're not taking over anything and we'll see what the Empire comes up with. I hope so, too. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u44	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u45	Anybody want a note? Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u46	We would like to make a note of both legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-15.u47	The members of the PVV's political group are granted a note in accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure that they do not wish to be deemed to have been able to reconcile themselves with the bill of incorporation of the municipalities of Appingedam, Delfzijl and Loppersum (35344) and the bill of Spliting of the municipality of Haaren (35345).
