ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	I forgot to welcome everyone, the MPs, the Minister for Medical Care, the people in the public gallery, but also the people who are following this debate in a different way. This debate is about the developments surrounding the spread of the coronavirus. I give the floor to Mr Hijink as the first speaker. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. At least 38 people in our country are now infected with the corona virus. Worldwide we are talking about more than 90,000 people, of whom 3,200, and probably more, have died of the virus. In the fight against the virus, we must look soberly at what is effective as far as the SP is concerned. We do not take extreme measures if it is not necessary, because ordinary life must go on as far as possible. At the same time, however, we must be ready to take far-reaching measures, especially if necessary, to prevent further spread of the virus. We can count on the knowledge, expertise and proposed approach of both RIVM and GGD in our country in this type of outbreaks. Thanks to the commitment of our general practitioners and staff in hospitals, everything is done to give patients the best possible care, even though the pressure, especially on the general practitioners, has increased enormously. The SP has a lot of questions. For example, general practitioners are calling the alarm clock because basic care is at risk due to the extra pressure caused by the coronavirus. There is a lack of protective equipment, such as mouth caps, to protect yourself and the staff well. We cannot accept that general practitioners have to go to the Gamma or the Construction Market to protect themselves from this kind of danger. That's not acceptable. I ask the Minister if he agrees. In Amsterdam, we are currently seeing dentists removing treatments and sending patients home because they are going to be able to give them the treatment they need to give me. My question to the Minister is what he will do about this. Why does he reject the measures taken, for example, in Frankijk and Germany to maintain mouth caps and other protective measures for healthcare professionals? Why does he reject such measures? We also understand that a redistribution of corona tests is currently taking place between hospitals. Of course, that's wise. But can the Minister make it clear whether there are sufficient tests available for the longer term and that we will not be able to test the stock of tests in the near future whether we can actually test anyone we really would like to test? I would also like to hear from the Minister what he is going to do to address the threat of shortage of raw materials for medicines. We must not lose sight of the fact that antibiotics, blood thinners and other medicines are lacking. The SP also wants clarification on the capacity in hospitals. The Minister states in a letter that he has advised hospitals to consider, in the event of a larger outbreak, whether corona patients can be taken care of in nursing homes. My question is, how? There are long waiting lists. In fact, 560 hospital beds are again occupied every day by older people who should be able to go somewhere else, for example in a nursing home. Mr Distel of the RIVM said in a briefing last Tuesday that this document should be read differently in the letter, namely that elderly people who already live in a nursing home could be cared for if they were infected with the virus in the nursing home. This too seems very complicated and risky to me. I would like to hear from the Minister what is really happening and why communication has gone so messy. In the advice of the Outbreak Management Team we read that hospitals should also look for extra beds, for example in barracks or in tents of Defense. The fact that they have yet to do so gives us the impression that these plans are obviously not yet in place. I'd like to hear from the Minister if that's true. Can the Minister explain whether the hospitals have standard plans for this type of outbreak, or should these plans still be prepared now that we are already in the middle of the storm? How does the Minister respond to the closure of hospitals after a patient has been diagnosed with infection? How do we prevent this from happening more? How is healthcare in the region taken care of if this happens in more places, as we now unfortunately see? How does the Minister prevent such interventions from threatening the continuity of care in the region, which are, of course, sometimes necessary to further limit the virus? For example, does the Minister intend to concentrate on caring for people with infection in one region or even on a rural scale? Specialists say to us: better ten patients with the virus in one hospital in one location than one patient in ten hospitals. I ask the Minister how he looks at this and, for example, whether he is also considering making available the emergency hospital in Utrecht for this purpose. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister give financial support to hospitals that are in trouble as a result of this virus outbreak? The prices of disinfectants and bandages are rising rapidly. There may also be higher absenteeism in hospitals. The temporary closure of departments or even the entire hospital, as we have seen, can of course have financial consequences. I would like to ask the Minister if he will meet hospitals if they get into trouble as a result. If so, how is he going to do this? Mr. Chairman. We are not yet clear whether all the people who are infected can actually be redirected to an infected area, for example in northern Italy. Can the Minister explain why this is taking so long in some cases? I heard Mr Van Dissel say that this is because people are on life support. It's hard to talk then. But of course there are people in the area who can indicate whether there is a link to contaminated area and what its consequences are. Many people are also worried about the group of 900 members of student association Vindicat from Groningen, who decided last weekend to go skiing together in northern Italy. That's a pretty irresponsible decision, if you ask me. What measures are being taken to accommodate and monitor this group when this group returns next weekend? Can the GGD in Groningen actually handle such numbers? Finally, the SP would like to know from the Minister what the state of play is regarding the organisation of major international events. At the moment, the organisation itself decides whether it should be postponed or adjusted. I would like to hear when the Minister will take over that decision, so that he will decide which event will continue and which event will be better held at a later date. Mr. Chairman. I have to leave it at that for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Jansen on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Two things are essential for the PVV for everyone in the Netherlands. Firstly, that is maximum protection for our citizens against this terrible corona virus. We don't have the illusion that you're keeping this out of the door, because it's already there. But now take the right measures to limit further spread. I will come back to these measures later, and I will ask the Minister to respond to them. The second point is that we need to treat Dutch people who are already infected as well as possible to help them get back on top. At the same time, let us be careful not to make things unnecessarily worse. Treatment by professionals in a hospital, emergency hospital or regional shelter, is our preferred option. Don't we have extra risk from home quarantine compared to hospitalization? How does the Minister see this? Already a month ago the PVV said it was not a matter of whether the coronavirus would reach the Netherlands, but of when this would happen. The experts maintained until the last moment that there was no chance of that. It is now clear that they were wrong about that. Nevertheless, the Minister is still listening to these experts rather than drawing a conclusion himself on the basis of events at home and abroad. We then wonder: why? Does he dare not take unpopular but necessary measures? We were accused of panicking. Our motions to act proactively and protect and inform our residents were voted off. But the coronavirus is a ticking time bomb and the timer is almost zero. There's no direction. The Minister points to the RIVM, the RIVM points to the general practitioners, the general practitioners point to the GGD and at the GGD everyone is on hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	Just now, the PVV said that experts have always said that the chance would be nil that we would get the virus here. That is absolutely not true. We've been getting information from the RIVM. There have been three briefings, also thanks to the PVV, which she requested at the procedural meeting. Fine. There it has been made very clear what the development of the virus is. Why is the PVV saying this here? Why does the PVV use words here that cause people to worry more now than is necessary? One of the elements of today's debate will be: how do we keep our heads cool? These words do not fit in at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	The PVV assumes realism. That is why we are about to announce a number of measures and ask the Minister to respond. In answer to the first question: RIVM did indeed indicate at the very first technical briefing that the likelihood of the virus reaching the Netherlands was considered to be nil. Now we know that's just not true. That is exactly why I am making this comment here. I would also like to mention another example which I will return to later in my text. There have been cases of infection of people in the Netherlands who have been detected at the time that hospitals deviated from a directive drawn up by RIVM. These are the examples in which we have doubts as to whether we are taking the right measures at the moment, which are necessary to prevent this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	Ending as far as I'm concerned. RIVM has just been accused of falsehoods. I absolutely distance myself from that. I went to that briefing and it wasn't said there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	That is my colleague's opinion. I have heard that remark, and I have even noted it. The comment can also be found in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	Just a little supplement to what Mr. Renkema is putting forward. Firstly, I have another reminder of the technical briefing. Let's just leave it at that. But I also find the tone of the PVV to be offensive to all healthcare professionals, doctors, RIVM and the GGD, who have been working only 24/7 over the past few weeks. I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	In response: I think there is no party like the PVV that always stands up for our people in care, for our people working hard, for our heroes. They have also tried very hard over the past period. But they must be directed by someone who takes charge. That's what this minister should do. He must not be guided by what the experts advise him, but he must make his own decisions. That's gotta happen here. The experts only advise us in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	As a Chamber, we have had the pleasure of being briefed three times by Mr Van Dissel of the RIVM in a technical briefing on what is going on. I think that was even requested three times by the PVV, for which I am grateful. That gives us, as MPs, the opportunity to discuss with experts what is going on and what is needed. In these technical briefings, Mr Van Dissel of the RIVM outlined very clearly what stage we are now in and what measures are appropriate. Is Mr Jansen now saying that RIVM is inadequate? Does Mr Jansen now believe that further action should be taken at the stage we are in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that. Those who, in our view, are currently lacking in the measures that are being taken are the Minister. The Minister will be advised by RIVM. We believe that the Minister himself should take the lead and that he should also take unpopular measures to prevent people from being in uncertainty about the further development of the coronavirus. We would like to see these matters reflected in the Minister's reply in a moment's time. That is what the PVV is making itself strong at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	I have tried to listen very carefully and I hope I have heard a little bit that Mr Jansen says he wants to join the experts' advice. At the same time, I hear him say that the Minister must act. Can Mr Jansen indicate where the Minister has deviated from the expert opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	I shall return to the measures in the course of my speech. The Minister is currently fully guided by the experts. Every time there's an event. There's gonna be a press conference and then there's gonna be a reaction to an event. What we are missing with this minister at the moment is that he himself is thinking ahead. Governing is forward-looking. We must not respond to situations, but we must actively ensure that we give people the right information, at the right moments and in the right amount, so that they know exactly what is going to happen. Then they don't get insecure. Then they will not be surprised by measures that are going to be taken. That is lacking at the moment, the directional role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	I hear the PVV Group here using very big words towards the minister, but also towards experts. That's what bothers me. The PVV Group, Mr Jansen, has just said that the Minister must not be guided by experts. My question to Mr Jansen is: who should he be guided by? By the PVV Group, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have just indicated that the experts advise us, advise the Chamber, advise the Minister. In the end, however, the Minister must also draw up his own plan and perhaps see that it is right to take a number of steps to draw people's attention to what might happen and what measures we are going to take instead of saying every time: I am listening to the experts, I am taking these experts' opinions completely, but I do not really want to take them further and to reassure people more. I miss that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	What I think is happening now is that there is a corona virus in the Netherlands that brings with it day-to-day developments and that appropriate measures are being looked at from day to day. It looks not only at the present, but also at scenarios for the future. This minister, the caregivers in the country, the RIVM, the GGDs, all do so on the basis of experts, on knowledge, on expertise they have. What the PVV Group is saying here is I don't want to fight the corona virus, but I want to fuel the fear virus. That's what bothers me. This can't be happening. In dealing with this serious problem, we must rely on the knowledge of the people in the country who really know things and not on the fear virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u18	Then this point has been made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u19	Here again the fear card is played. It doesn't make sense to mention that here. All we do is look at developments. We're looking at the first infection a week ago, we're looking at the number of infections now and there's contamination every day. Two more this morning, those were employees working in the care, in hospitals, where a patient with the coronavirus was admitted. Those are things that are incredibly worrying us. We must take action on this at the moment as the Netherlands, and at the moment we have the idea that the Minister could take additional steps to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mrs. Diertens hasn't had her turn yet. Then I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u21	I would like to ask the PVV whether they do not have confidence in the facts that are currently being put forward on a scientific basis, as a basis for the policy that is now being pursued, with quarantine and all that sort of thing. Because all these scientists, all these experts, are working so hard right now to contain the virus, which is also a successful method so far. Let us therefore have a little understanding and confidence in that. I think that trust is very necessary for the people who are helping us at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u22	We have absolute confidence in the advice we get from the experts, just like everyone else here has. But whatever we notice, after all the technical briefings, it makes sense, but unfortunately, it is that the information we get is often outdated, a number of days, sometimes two weeks. At the last presentation we saw a sheet, dated February 11th. Then came the information of February 13th and eventually some information about the Netherlands came. What we have also seen in all three briefings is that there are still questions, including with the experts, just as those who live with us in the Lower House, just like those who live with the Minister. But we are also looking at countries around us and we see that there are a number of countries that have taken measures that go beyond what the WHO recommends. We see countries that, so to speak, are currently closing 120 schools, look at France. We see in northern Italy that all schools and universities are closed until 15 March. Those are measures they take that go very far. I also hear this morning's reaction that the right to education may be at stake. But they are good measures, because you will prevent the outbreak from spreading even further. These are the things that we are also saying in the Netherlands at the moment: take good measures now, based on the information we have, but also think about how we are going to proceed, depending on the development of this virus, depending on the development of the number of infections and the number of victims that may fall. Let's hope it's not any in the Netherlands, but look at the countries around you. You must dare to take political steps when they are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u23	What really bothers me is that you are very selective in what you think good measures are. You bring in all kinds of practical experiences in other countries that have not been scientifically proven or proven by experts to be the best measures. I do not want to qualify for this because our experts also look scientifically at what is important and what is not important. I think you're actually picking some raisins from the porridge: well, that's where they do this and there they do it. I am convinced that our scientists, that our RIVM studies all that kind of data and is working to take the right measures out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u25	Countries around us also have valid arguments for taking these measures. You are now putting them away as countries that just muddle and do something, if only to prevent mass hysteria. Bullshit! These countries make those decisions based on the events, based on the infections in their country, based on the number of victims there. That is good, because that means taking responsibility and thinking forward as a politician. We should all do that here instead of just attacking the PVV. Just think constructively. Do you agree with me that our people, our inhabitants, are extremely ignorant of the steps we are going to take, possibly the scenarios behind them and when will they be taken? That's not known at all, is it? If you look then... Mr President, I am sorry to do it a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u26	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u27	If you look at the situation in England, they have a simple A4 in England. At the top are seven steps and at the bottom are a number of possibilities: how to act if you feel you are infected and how to prevent it. The seven steps at the top are essential. That is exactly what it says: we start with information and we scale up according to developments. That is not known here at all, not among the people. Perhaps with the Minister and perhaps with the experts, but our citizens, our citizens, do not know anything about this, and that must change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u28	I can see you guys again, because you've all been there. I think there has been enough exchange on this point. If we don't, we're gonna be repeating ourselves. So I would like to appeal to you not to ask the same questions again in one form or another. Mr Jansen has spoken for about a minute and he has five minutes left. I go to Mr Renkema for one question and then I give Mr Jansen the opportunity to conclude his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u29	I understand you, but we are at the heart of the debate here: do we rely on our experts? I don't have a question, but I do want to say something. I am very sorry that five minutes ago it was said that we would have had incomplete information during briefings, had incorrect information or would have had outdated information. I would like to ask a question, however, to distance myself from that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u30	I cannot help but notice that the information we received last week was, to a large extent, too old. February 11th, February 13th; we live here on fucking March 5th. What are we all talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u31	Okay. Mrs. Van den Berg. Or Mr. Veldman? I see you looking angry. We're just getting started, so we're saving that anger for later in the day. Yeah? Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u32	Angry, though. Mr President! Mr Jansen has made a number of additional points in his speech, and that is why I am standing here again. He refers to a number of measures that have been taken in other countries and then states that we should do the same here. That is exactly what Mr Van Dissel of the RIVM explained to us in that technical briefing: that we are taking appropriate measures here in the Netherlands, part of the stage we are in. Mr Van Dissel has also explicitly said: I cannot rule out the possibility that such measures may be necessary in the Netherlands, but not now. On the basis of what knowledge does Mr Jansen say that he must now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u33	If the VVD had bothered to make me talk a little longer...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u34	Well, there you'll get...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u35	... they would have heard exactly what I am saying about other countries and about measures. Maybe after that, he'll want to ask the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u36	Fine, you'll have the opportunity to do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u37	Then I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u38	Fine. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u39	I would ask the PVV to make the comments a little more in asking form than simply say so firmly that the RIVM does not propose appropriate measures and does not take good action. I can only support Mr. Veldman's questions in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u40	Good. I suggest you move on, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yes. I think I have already asked six questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u42	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. It's time for one director in this crisis, and we need to deal with it now. Countries around us, Mr. Veldman, have taken far more far-reaching measures than we have. Why did she and we didn't? In whose interest are the current weak measures taken by this Minister? Is it for our citizens, for the economy or does it perhaps serve a political purpose? These weak measures are the cause of at least two infections in the Netherlands, which were not detected if the hospitals had fully followed the RIVM guidelines. How the hell did this happen? What's the Minister gonna do about this? Or is he just gonna let this happen? Why doesn't the minister open up to the people in the country? Can't anyone know what's gonna happen to us, depending on the severity of the outbreak? Up to 60% of Dutch people can become infected. That's over 10 million people. 10 million! Do we have so many treatment sites, staff, protective equipment, etc.? Are you sure the GPs can handle this? They are put forward to go on home visits and whether or not to determine after consultation whether there may be contamination. We hear from all sides that they do not have sufficient protective equipment. It's not for nothing that they're all ringing the bell about that. Then the measure to use nursing homes for extra capacity. What a total lack of a sense of reality. Even if it's just people who are already there, as we were told of the week, you're not going to expose vulnerable elderly people to additional risks. This can't be the intention, can it, Minister? Surely it is these people who built our country after the war and therefore deserve much more attention and protection? I'd like a response. The minister said we were well prepared. The scenarios would be ready. Perhaps the Minister can now tell us how many infections we have to take into account in the various scenarios, and how many potential victims. When are we going to communicate this to our citizens to prepare them? Surely our citizens have the right to know this and to rely on us? It's all about actively informing our citizens. To get things going well, the PVV proposes the following measures. 1. Come up with a negative travel advice for all the risk areas where the coronavirus is active, clearly communicate it to citizens through all channels and strongly advise people to travel there. 2. Ban flights with people from risk areas where the coronavirus is a big fireplace, to land in the Netherlands. Think of Hubei, think of South Korea, think of Northern Italy, to mention just a few examples. 3. Mandatory reporting and 14 days quarantine for anyone returning from a large risk area where the coronavirus is a fireplace. 4. Always test for coronavirus in people who report with respiratory complaints, even if they are not directly linked to risk areas or have come into contact with people who have been there. 5. Light the people comprehensively and honestly. Work with scenarios and clearly communicate the measures involved. Also communicate the consequences for numbers of infections and expected victims. Under the guise of not wanting to sow a panic, everything is now being kept under wraps. Please respond to these points. Because if we don't take these measures now, that time bomb will go off. The PVV will never let that happen, but never! All these measures are primarily concerned with the security of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. Contrary to the speaker from the PVV, 50PLUS thinks that we are actually quite upset with the information and measures. Because this is a new virus. We are getting all this new over us, and this is also a learning situation. What I really do not understand is how it is possible, with all these measures and information, that 900 students are just going to Northern Italy to go skiing there. I'm also curious how the GGD in Groningen is going to cope with that. I also think that the headmaster should be called upon to say that this is a completely irresponsible action, thereby endangering public health in the Netherlands. I told you, this is a new virus, a new development that we need to learn from. Of course, we also had the outbreak of SARS. How much did we learn from that outbreak? What are we gonna learn from this outbreak? Are we going to establish protocols from here? 'Cause this isn't gonna be the last time a new virus shows up, this is gonna happen again. So what are we gonna do with all that information we've been given?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u46	As you know, we have asked the Minister about the departure of the 900 students. But are you aware that yesterday the GGD Groningen responded via social media and via its own website to what measures it will take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u47	I missed that for a while, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u48	The Minister will undoubtedly be able to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u49	I hope the Minister will reply, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u50	Fortunately, I hear 50PLUS talking about preventing another outbreak, something that we, as Party for Animals, have already indicated at the previous meeting on the coronavirus. I wonder if 50PLUS agrees with us that we should also look at the cause, international trade in wild animals. Because with that, we can really prevent another virus. In China, they are working on this now, but I think we really need to work on it in the Netherlands and the European Union now, in order to prevent another virus. I'm curious about your vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yeah, when it comes to working with wild animals and things like that that can pose a danger, sure. But on the other hand, it is also true that in this globalising world traveling back and forth is really not going to be any less. So in that respect, we simply have to take that into account in the future. Again, I don't think that's gonna be any less. We just keep traveling around the world. That's just this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u52	I think so, too, unfortunately. But we are particularly concerned about how we can prevent all that dragging animals around the world. The viruses come from animals and are transmitted to humans. So if you're going to deal with that international trade, you can certainly try to prevent this type of virus. Hopefully we can be 50PLUS in that, because we really need to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u53	50PLUS is certainly not in favour of being towed with animals. But even if you wouldn't drag it, you wouldn't. Because you can see that the corona virus comes from a market in Wuhan. So even so, considering people's travels, you'd have problems with that. I'm afraid you can completely prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u54	All right, continue, Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u55	Good. I was talking about SARS and what we learn from it and what we learn from this outbreak. 'Cause don't think this is never gonna happen again. In hospitals, they're worried about the supplies. This has also been mentioned before. The Dutch Federation of University Medical Centres warned last week that the centres had problems. It is particularly important for hospital staff that they can adequately protect themselves. We are absolutely in favour of a European procurement of medical devices, so that we can have supplies in Europe, which should be available primarily for medical personnel. Mr. Hijink also mentioned the nursing homes. Indeed, it is not the case that elderly people are taken into nursing homes in the case of the Covid-19 virus. But if an older person gets that in a nursing home, he'd stay there. However, I have questions about that, because in a nursing home, you don't have isolation rooms or ventilation equipment. Then how do you ensure that other clients in that same nursing home are properly protected? We have our greatest doubts about this. In Germany, the contact investigations have been discontinued because there is no capacity for this. What's that like in the Netherlands? How long can we keep doing that? Do we have enough capacity for those contact tests? 'Cause I understand they're very labour-intensive. Then there's something else about the provision of information. I can't wait to see what's going on with these tests. I understand that there are people coming into the emergency room who say: I coughed this afternoon; do me such a test. Such a corona test is complicated. Would the Minister, especially for the provision of information to the people, explain once again how labour-intensive such a corona test is? It's not a pregnancy test, where you pee on a stick and voilà: you know it. So would the Minister like to say something more about these tests and that they can't just happen without a limit? I was just going to rattle, Mr. Chairman. I just saw that I had four minutes left, but now two minutes have passed through the interruptions. Fine. At the end of 2018, a motion from my group was adopted on the introduction of a regional system that makes it possible to exchange information on available beds in hospitals. It is not always clear for general practitioners and ambulances where a bed with the right acute hospital care is available. Hospitals in Southwest Netherlands can now live track how many beds are available at other hospitals. Why is that not possible for the rest of the Netherlands? Given the developments with the corona virus, that seems crucial to me. We also asked in the motion to make it possible to provide regional information on the number of available beds in crisis time also for neighbouring regions and GGDs. What is the current state of affairs? The OMT, the Outbreak Management Team... Mr President, this aside, can we please make sure that we simply use Dutch words? The OMT has set up a working group to examine the treatment options in corona and policies in groups with a potentially increased risk of serious development. I asked this yesterday at the technical briefing. Chloroquine is an old malaria medicine, which the university in Leuven says can at least help to remove the stinger in the most serious cases. It's an old drug, but it's been approved, so you can assume it's safe. I asked that at the technical briefing, but it was swept away with patience. I'm sorry about that. Why? In China, this has achieved very good results. How does consultation with other countries, such as China, deal with the results of medicines? I can imagine that going through the World Health Organisation, but I found the way this was wiped off the table yesterday very unfortunate. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with compliments, because we see that doctors, nurses, the GGDs, the RIVM, the officials at the ministry and the minister himself are working very hard, and that our virologists are leading internationally. On behalf of the CDA, I would like to express my deep thanks and appreciation for this. What about the availability of healthcare providers? Because we do hear that the general practitioners in particular are becoming overburdened. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid that hard work is necessary. It is essential that we control the virus; containment, as the World Health Organization calls it. We need to inhibit the virus early in the process, because it's unknown, we don't have a vaccine, we don't have a collective basic immunity, and we still know relatively little about the way the virus is transmitted and how the virus develops. The Director-General of the World Health Organization therefore reiterates the need for aggressive measures. Please respond to the question of whether our measures are sufficiently aggressive. The CDA therefore also has a number of other questions, first of all on the relationship with Europe. First of all, we see differences within Europe. Good cooperation within Europe is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u58	Perhaps before the interruption you can finish this piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u59	I was just getting started on a new paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u60	Okay, I'll go see Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA asks the Minister if our measures are aggressive and tough enough. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u62	We have brought forward four things from day one. First of all, communication to the people. At least it has increased enormously, but I will come back to that later. The next point concerns the differences within Europe, which I have just mentioned. Especially for the people in the border region it is difficult to understand why something does not happen in the Netherlands that happens in another country. That can also have anything to do with risk assessments, but we would like to have some clarification on that. The third point is that if the RIVM advises something that must also be implemented very quickly. The fourth point concerns us as a CDA. This concerns the production of medicines and the availability and dependence of China. So I would simply like to have some further clarification from the Minister on some points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u63	So, if I understand correctly, the CDA only wants to clarify, but everything else is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u64	We would like to have a more detailed explanation. Then we will see whether we think that the Minister's answer is sufficient or whether we have some other questions or comments on it on the basis of what we see and what we hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the differences within Europe. Good cooperation within Europe is essential. So it is also a good thing that this happened with repatriation, but it is also important that this happens in other areas, because together you are stronger. This is therefore about information exchange on numbers, testing and treatment capacity, bed capacity, knowledge exchange on vaccine development, but perhaps also common procurement of protective equipment and medicines to ensure that you are not being played against each other. Can the Minister give the final stand? What does the Netherlands do with Europe? Why is there no common approach to people coming from outside the EU? Against this background, the CDA asked several parliamentary questions. It is not, or at least it is difficult to explain, if complete villages are closed and schools are closed just across the border, while no measures are taken a few kilometres away in the Netherlands. We understand that the risks are different, but can the Minister explain this again? Because for people, this is often confusing. Can the Minister also explain why there is no longer any monitoring and enforcement in order to reduce the number of travellers' flows, to reduce the risk behaviour of returning travellers and not to travel to areas at risk? Mr. Chairman. Is it true that serious complaints are now being tested and not only if there has been indirect or direct contact with someone from infected areas? Do we have enough capacity and can we scale it up flexibly? Are there still sufficient testing agents? Mr. Chairman. Your approach can be extremely good, but if it is not known, you achieve the opposite: uncertainty and even panic. Because 50% of all the work is often communicating and communicating. It is good that much more is being communicated now, but we would like to see that as a CDA a bit more structured; maybe every morning at the journal by default an update, unscrew the fake news and repeat where people can go with all the questions. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is important that the information is unambiguous. Internationally we hear that besides washing hands, phones and keyboards should also be cleaned regularly. Why is this advice not being disseminated in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u67	I am interested to hear that it has been said that we, as Europe, as European countries and also internationally, need to cooperate more and that more aid is needed. What do you think about traveling to Schiphol, for example? Do you have a view on that? I just came back myself. There's no sign left...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u68	Where have you been, Mrs. Diertens?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u69	What do you think, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u70	On the BES islands, president.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u71	I've been to Curaçao and Saint Martin. There's no signal, no sign with something like "think about washing hands" or "corona" or anything like that. Questions have been asked about this too. What is the CDA's vision on how to inform more people when they arrive in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u72	That is also why I say: often 50% of work communication is. I think we can really do that a little bit more in a structured way. We would therefore like to call on the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mrs Van den Berg spoke about the border region, also in Limburg. We have also heard worrying stories about this. I would like to mention the example of people who live just across the border in Germany but who are in care in the Netherlands, and who then come back with complaints from a risk area and then seem to be nowhere to be found. You probably know those stories, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yeah, I know him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u75	Now my question to the CDA: do you now feel that the local GGD has handled this in a good way? Or is the CDA's request to the government to take additional measures in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u76	The CDA received answers to its questions, which were specifically about the border region in Limburg. We still have concerns about the fact that the GGD gives certain advice, but then it is up to the mayors to do something or not to do something. I would like to make that clear. What are the degrees of freedom once the RIVM or the GGD has given an advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr. Chairman. What about the communication on the BES islands, Mrs Diertens, comes from the Kingdom countries and from cooperation with the Kingdom countries in the Caribbean? Mr. Chairman. The necessary aggressive measures can have major economic effects. Is the Minister prepared to accept the request for part-time WW and, if necessary, take other temporary emergency measures? What are the cabinet and embassies doing to help Dutch companies abroad? Can a telephone line be opened for SMEs? In addition, we hear that handgel is offered at weekerpricesplaats.nl. Is the Minister prepared to label usury prices for this type of product as an economic offence? Parents with a sick child no longer dare to ask grandpa and grandma to babysit, but stay home. Has this been discussed with employers, for example? Mr. Chairman. What's the status on the schematics? The United Kingdom is very open about that. What are the Dutch ideas and decisions about them? Finally, Mr President. At the beginning of 2019, the CDA pointed to China's excessive dependence on antibiotics, for example. Now we're reading about deficits. I'd like an update on the state of play. Antibiotics don't help with a virus, but they help if you get pneumonia as a side effect. CDAs working in health care have told us that there is already a shortage of personal protective equipment, such as mouth caps and hand alcohol. Is this going to put ordinary care, like surgery, at risk? And what about the supply of IV fluids? Is the Netherlands able, if necessary, to quickly scale up the emergency hospital and, in the event of escalation, to organise the emergency hospital in a short time? And does the Minister have the opportunity to confiscate funds? We had understood that this was not the case, but it may seem necessary to us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu. That is by way of derogation from the list of speakers, but Mr Kuzu has been authorised by all the spokesmen to speak now. Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank my colleagues who have shown understanding that I will speak earlier. I will also have to leave for Rotterdam after my contribution because of personal circumstances. Mr. Chairman. With nearly 300 million children worldwide unable to attend school, more than 3,000 deceased in China, more than 100 deceased in Italy, cancelled events and 38 identified infections, the concern of society about the coronavirus is justified. Since the government has the constitutional task of promoting public health, every effort must be made to combat this infectious disease. I see that a lot of people in the care do that with passion. I want to go to all those people and say my compliments and my compassion. It is necessary to combat this infectious disease because of its impact on public health, its impact on the economy and its impact on social life. Feel free to say that our way of life is under pressure. The cabinet, and specifically the Minister for Medical Care, is expected to act. He may be expected to provide clarity. He should be there, taking control and asserting himself. We saw that the minister was absent for a long time at first. Maybe he was there in the background, but not in the foreground. Then suddenly he shows up everywhere in the foreground. He even had to read a note to his own surprise during a live broadcast on 27 February to announce the first case in the Netherlands. He thus gives the impression that he is a spectator. As is often the case, DENK's criticism of this minister is that the role of director is lacking, whether it is hospital failure or the fight against the coronavirus. As far as DENK is concerned, the main purpose of this debate is to clarify, for example, various different protocols. Come to work. Don't come to work. With serious complaints? Or even if there's mild complaints? Whether or not you've been to northern Italy? What exactly is it? Each company seems to have its own policy. One company launches a medical sabbatical and sends all its employees away. In the Louvre in Paris, staff members are calling it quits. Of course, there is a strong message about this. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, there is a need to clarify changing messages from the government. Go to the doctor. Don't go to the GP, call the GP. After that, don't call the GP unless you have complaints. What exactly is it? Third, there must be clarity about confusing communication about mouth caps. They were told they weren't working, but other reports say they're working again. Then we see hospitals screaming murder and fire over a shortage of mouth caps. Those two cases aren't consistent. My question to the Minister is: do those masks work or not? Fourthly, we need to clarify whether there are sufficient quarantine sites in hospitals. If not, is there a plan, as in Italy and Germany, to set up emergency hospitals next to or near hospitals? As a fifth, it is necessary to clarify how many serious and critical patients can handle hospitals to the maximum extent possible. As a sixth, we need to clarify the WHO's recommendation to act swiftly. What is fast according to the Minister and what is hard according to the Minister? Does he think it's appropriate? Mr President, I would like to make a second point. The fraction of DENK gets annoyed by some speculators who try to make a financial profit from the corona story. Examples are a bottle of hand gel for €35 and mouth caps at bizarre prices. My colleague from the CDA also talked about it. We find this really reprehensible. What possibilities does the Minister have to combat this kind of speculation? Can the Distribution Act, a law that we haven't used for a very long time and which is intended to address scarcity in emergencies, possibly help with this? Mr. Chairman. My final point is about self-enrichment. In 2009, there was a violent panic about the so-called Mexican flu. For this, even a double vaccination round was held for all children in the Netherlands. A few weeks later, we found that a few hundred people had mild flu symptoms and fortunately no one died. The virologist who was on TV a lot at the time, we now see everywhere. The relevant virologist, who worked for RIVM for 16 years and was an important advisor to the minister's predecessor, would have had a personal financial interest in the production of vaccines against the Mexican flu through a company. Although there appears to be an alleged conflict of interest, it has always been denied by the person concerned. He says he didn't make it, but he owns 10% of the shares. The place does stink. I would therefore ask the Minister to be sharp and alert to speculators and not to give them one millimeter of space to enrich himself with an infectious disease that concerns a lot of people. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet must therefore do three things with regard to DENK. One. Clarification. Two. Keep your peace and quiet. Three. Make sure that no one, but no one, enriches themselves unnecessarily. For the moment, we are talking about a flu-like infection that causes mild symptoms for most people in the Netherlands. The contrast with really dangerous infectious diseases, such as Ebola, is very large. Hopefully this is a lot I'm saying. In a few weeks we'll look back on this like a storm in a glass of water. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u81	To the end, Mr. Chairman. I just heard the last words: "a storm in a glass of water."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u82	Hopefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u83	You hope it is. But if you look at developments worldwide, if you look at northern Italy, if you look at the number of cases of contagion in the Netherlands and in the countries around us, can you not maintain that it may be a storm in a glass of water? You may hope so, but that's not the practice, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u84	That's exactly why I started my contribution to the fact that 300 million children worldwide can't go to school. There are more than 3,000 deceased in China and over 100 deceased in Italy. So it's really something we need to be serious about. I am expressing the hope that it will be a good thing in the Netherlands; hopefully. Of course, all kinds of measures must be taken. We must be fed by experts who have far more knowledge of this kind of thing than politics. We need to be alert and sharp and the Minister needs to take his direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u85	290 million kids don't go to school because of the virus. Do you think that is over-ridden, or do you think that is a proper measure in that situation in that country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u86	It is particularly terrible that 290 million children cannot go to school because of the outbreak of a virus that we know very little about and whose nature is really serious because of the number of people who died. That's terrible. That is why we must do everything we can to contain this infectious disease in the Netherlands as much as possible. I see a lot of people are doing very well. On that road we must continue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr. Chairman. Panic must be prevented. I understand that the Minister, RIVM and the other relevant bodies are working on this. That is good, but there is a balance between preventing panic on the one hand and prevention measures on the other. I still have the feeling and have also seen up close that the balance has unfortunately gone crazy over the past week to prevent panic. That could have harmful consequences. A good friend of mine is currently in home quarantine with the corona virus. On the basis of her case, I certainly criticize the protocols of RIVM, especially in last week's phase. My knowledge has friends with the corona virus and she just met them last week. They were not advised, as an article in a local newspaper writes, by the GGD to stay home since their return from northern Italy, quite the contrary. Here's their story. The man got sick last week after coming home from northern Italy. He called the GP, but wasn't tested. Because he hadn't been in the Italian quarantine area. He's made five calls to the GP, to the GGD and even to the RIVM. He offered to pay for the test himself, but he couldn't. He had a fever and coughed in front of his partner, who went down the street all week and worked. The GGD and RIVM have not advised them to stay home. It was only when the protocol was amended on Sunday to test people from all over northern Italy that they were allowed to be tested. They had to call for this again. The outcome: both corona. So they have been able to light people for a week, so have my own knowledge. I would like a response from the Minister. Why hasn't protocol been modified before? Why were people who had been in northern Italy and felt sick not advised to stay home earlier? Mr. Chairman. As if this is not yet irresponsible enough, the couple received another advice from the GGD's results: don't say this to anyone and just report to your work sick. Also against people they had seen and who had the symptoms, they had to keep it quiet for a while. I ask the Minister: what is the reason for this, as far as we are concerned? For those who now think this is a solitaire case: in the Eindhovens Dagblad we read that a patient from Helmond had to insist himself to be tested and that the result was positive. Those I know were advised yesterday that she doesn't have to tell anyone the fact that she has corona. It's okay, but you don't have to. She doesn't need to inform her contacts she's seen in the last week. So these people don't have to stay home either. This is unlike in Germany, where the protocol is that people who have been in contact with someone with corona should stay at home. Does the Minister agree with the Animal Party that the protocol in Germany is going ahead to prevent contamination? My group therefore wonders whether this cabinet is actually committed to preventing the spread of this disease, or whether the health services are mainly concerned with preventing panic. Does the Minister think it is justified not to test people or not to let them spread the whole truth, just to avoid unrest? Isn't the lack of information a source of concern? I ask the Minister whether this limited approach has to do with the shortage of care personnel, including the GGD. The virus is spreading faster than the procedures of the GGD are currently able to keep up with it. I believe that several groups have also indicated this. I'm curious about the reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. I am disappointed in what the Minister calls prevention. The minister seems to be chasing the facts. When I look at the procedure, I think that this will only increase the risk of a major outbreak in the Netherlands. Finally, I would like to stress that this corona virus is a successor to a long line of zoonoses, diseases that pass from animals to humans. SARS, MERS, the Mexican flu, Q fever, Ebola: they all come from wild animals or cattle, and they make many human victims. I ask everyone in this Chamber to reflect on whether intensive breeding and the internationally poorly regulated trade in animals are worth this health risk. The livestock industry and wildlife trade are a ticking time bomb. Waiting for another outbreak. It is high time we started linking cause and effect in policy. In the previous debate on the coronavirus, this minister indicated that he would discuss this with his colleague from LNV. We're curious, did it work yet? What progress has been made on this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u90	We are pleased that the Party for Animals, like the PVV, also mentions some points of criticism. I had the feeling that we were all alone and that the rest of us were okay with it. But I'm curious about the following. You have an acquaintance who's in home quarantine. Did you visit her? And if so, have you been tested for the corona virus yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u91	I didn't visit her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Many people have said or written something about the basic needs of man. What connects us all? What are the similarities between humans? I believe that three aspects of this are relevant in today's debate. Man wants to be safe. Then it's about your own safety, but certainly also about the safety of your immediate neighbors. We want to avoid unsafe situations. The second is that man wants security. We avoid uncertainty and doubt. The third is that man wants self-determination. When choices are made for us, we find that difficult. We also avoid these situations. We generally know as a human being but difficult to deal with insecurity, uncertainty and powerlessness. I recognize myself in that, too. The new coronavirus has infected dozens of people in the Netherlands and I am concerned about this, not so much for myself but for the health of many others. My mother, for example, is 90 years old and has chronic leukemia. A pneumonia would kill her. The lack of a vaccine is something we really need to wait for. I understand that very well. But at the same time, we absolutely must not let ourselves get crazy. Fortunately, most people are not seriously ill with this virus and also in China we are now seeing the number of new infections decrease. We have good care providers in the Netherlands and excellent scientific institutions. I therefore have confidence in the approach of the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, RIVM, and the commitment of our GGDs. I do have a number of questions for our Minister, but I see that Mr Jansen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u94	I can see that, too. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u95	I hear Mr Renkema saying that the number of infections in China is decreasing, but I think there was an increase last night. So is it perhaps not too early to draw conclusions that the falling trend is actually continuing or that it might be going with hiccups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u96	In the first days of the outbreak, I saw graphs indicating that within a few weeks half of the world's population would be infected. Then it was about the rapid outbreak in Wuhan and it was extended to all of China and actually the whole world. That has not been the case. I believe that China is currently taking very firm measures and must also be taken and that China is reasonably capable of countering these kinds of graphs by reducing the number of new infections. It will undoubtedly vary every day but it is not the data that was initially published and you could see on the social media, as if the whole of China would be infected within three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u97	The answer is now very much involved with China, but of course there are many more countries where there is a huge increase in the number of infections. So aren't you a little too certain that China's approach seems to be working, especially since, as I said, the number of infections in China has increased again last night?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u98	As I have just said, I am very concerned about the fact that dozens of people have been infected in the Netherlands and I am also deeply concerned about the situation in northern Italy. It therefore calls for very good measures. At the same time, I would like to point out that not everyone is seriously ill with this virus and that you can see that measures are working. Thus, measures are taken by countries that work. I will continue with a number of questions to the Minister. The Beatrix Hospital has been closed to new patients and visitors. Then a patient had been in the hospital for days with severe respiratory problems and at that time there was no test on the corona virus. This was only discovered in the new hospital where the patient went, the Erasmus in Rotterdam. How is it that a hospital didn't test this patient? The protocol was tightened by the RIVM two days prior to that transfer and it advised hospitals to test all patients with unexplained lung problems for corona. Where did it go wrong in this case? In what way does RIVM share its protocols with healthcare professionals and what lessons do we draw from this? How does the Minister intend to avoid this misunderstanding in the future? It is precisely the intensive care that has proved vulnerable to an outbreak of the corona virus. Patients who come there may apparently have the coronavirus among the members without there being any direct signals resulting from the current case description, namely contact with people in northern Italy. Several hospitals have since been affected and departments are being closed down. That intensive care is at the heart of our healthcare system. Does the Minister intend to take additional measures to protect those intensive cares? I would like to comment on this point. Then about the G.D.D.'s. We have 25 GGD regions in the Netherlands and they currently have a very important task, namely monitoring the virus, testing and providing information. A great deal of work is being done in particular in this so labour-intensive source and contact research, but today a GGD region often includes more than 600,000 inhabitants. I'm picking up signals that not all GMDs are sufficiently equipped. There was another article in the NRC about that this morning. In recent years, a lot of municipalities have cut back on these GGD tasks, which are a municipal responsibility, with the smaller GGDs having a rather limited capacity. Some have only a few infection doctors and nurses have infectious diseases. These professionals, in particular, now have a huge responsibility and a large range of tasks. Does the Minister also see that some GGDs have too limited capacity which makes it difficult to perform all tasks properly and what will the Minister do with that fact? I'd like a response on that point. We are now in the phase where the Ministry, RIVM, the GGDs and other agencies are working hard to limit that corona virus. Containment is called in the jargon of public health care. Unfortunately, English, I'm just saying hold back. But when there are a lot of cases and research into further dissemination is no longer sustainable. Then I wonder how many cases of unknown origin, so outside the case description, we move on to the next stage. What measures are then being considered? Are sufficient preparations already being made should that phase begin? General practitioners and hospitals are concerned about the stock of personal protective equipment. Does the Minister see that there is a need for national coordination here? And does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that if this crisis is behind us, the roadmaps should be evaluated? I'd like to see a vaccine for this new virus as soon as possible. That's the best protection for everyone. If we can rely on outbreaks of this type of virus in the past, then such a vaccine will come. My question is what the government is doing at the moment to achieve or speed up this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u99	Do you mind if you just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u100	Perhaps Mr Jansen can ask his question, then I will conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u101	Okay, I'll go see Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u102	Does Mr Renkema agree with me because I have also asked the same questions: should this have already been communicated to our citizens? Weren't they entitled to that information? Did they not have the right to know that we as a government are doing well and what steps are we going to take when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u103	No, I disagree with Mr Jansen. I think every stage of this outbreak requires new measures. When the current measures are no longer effective, you will have to consider new measures. But I do not think it would be wise to say now that in three weeks' time perhaps schools in the Netherlands will have to close or that certain events might have to be cancelled in six weeks' time. However, I would like to know what the scenarios are and how they are prepared. However, in order to communicate now that we may have to do something in two, three or four weeks' time, it seems to me very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u104	We're not talking about "maybe" at all. We simply asked for steps to be worked out and indicated when we are taking what step. That is what we asked for. I believe that the citizen is entitled to that information. He must know what happens to a certain number of infections, or to a certain number of people who die from them. Surely it is not possible for us to leave the public in the dark and keep that information under wraps, especially in order not to cause a panic? People just need to know what they're up to in the end, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u105	The latter I fully agree with the PVV. People need to know what they're up to. That is why I trust that the measures now being taken by RIVM and communicated to them will be considered sufficient at the moment and that, when the next step is to be taken, the RIVM, the GGDs and also the Ministry will fully inform the people. I do not think it is necessary to explain all possible scenarios in advance and say: this would be an option, that would be an option. This leads to a kind of panic and fear, which we must combat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u107	Then I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. I started with it: as a human being, we get a feeling of unease when we have no control over something, when we are insecure and do not feel safe. However, I should like to warn against too much panic and also against the social disruption that this would entail. Combating this is also our role as a Chamber, as is contradicting disinformation. On 24 January RIVM already issued an opinion on the possible corona outbreak in the Netherlands. The role of our Chamber is to control policy and control the Minister. That's what we have to do. But let us all also keep our heads cool and our hearts warm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you, Mr President. It's a good thing we're talking about the corona virus today, because developments are going very fast. In a week's time, the ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, has adjusted the risk of infection with the coronavirus. First it was low to moderate, now it's moderate to high. I would like to start this debate with words of appreciation for the RIVM, the GGDs, the GPs and anyone who works very hard to keep the outbreak of the coronavirus as small as possible. I would also like to express appreciation for the Minister. As a Member of Parliament, I feel well informed. I also believe that the Minister is clearly visible and communicates, including to the Dutch people. Finally, in my introduction, I would also like to wish patients and their relatives a great deal of strength and also to wish patients a better life. I have just checked the website of the RIVM: it is now 38 people. Mr. Chairman. When I talk to people around me and when I look at my mailbox, there are a few questions that keep coming back. The first question is: why don't we test much more large scale? In the conversation with RIVM during the technical briefing, attention was also paid to this. Also in written questions put by colleagues, it is mentioned that a test is only effective if there are symptoms of the virus. This means that the virus cannot be detected before then either. That is clear to me, but I think it is good to communicate that clearly. The second question I often hear is: why does the Netherlands not take action, as happens abroad? For example, it is a question of canceling major events. Last Tuesday I myself asked a number of questions about this at RIVM. It has become clear to me that this is because the situation in countries is different. The context in Italy, for example, but also in Germany, is simply different from that in the Netherlands. Countries are therefore also taking other appropriate measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. There are also political and cultural differences; I will come back to that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch authorities follow the advice of the ECDC and the World Health Organisation. I think this is good. The Dutch also have confidence in this approach, according to research which I read in the newspapers this morning. However, it is incomprehensible to many people that countries deal so differently with the fight against the coronavirus. I have the following question to the Minister: when will the next EPSCO Council take place? Is the harmonised approach, which follows the opinions of ECDC, on the agenda? Is there also talk of adequate protective equipment for healthcare professionals? I believe that a European approach to this is justified. Mr. Chairman. The ROAZ-en has been identified whether there are shortages of protective equipment. I understood from the Minister that this would not be the case. However, I get signals from general practitioners who have far too little protection material, especially when it comes to mouth caps. I heard from a GP practice, where a number of GPs work, that they just have three mouth caps in their house. That's not enough. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Is he willing to take the same steps as the French President? The French President has decreed that protective equipment should be confiscated for caregivers. Mr. Chairman. Another concern is that general practitioners have to make a lot of visits, because people are not allowed to come to practice. This takes a lot of time and brings even more risks. How can general practitioners be supported? What role can the health services, and perhaps hospitals, play in this? Should there be a larger outbreak, general practitioners will no longer be able to cope with the additional tasks they now have. Primary care is already overloaded. How is this anticipated? Another question is about the nursing homes. The advice of the Outbreak Management Team states that alternative locations, such as nursing homes, for care, nursing and treatment of patients should be considered. How does the Minister view this, particularly in view of the vulnerability of nursing home residents? Mr. Chairman. I have a few points to make about the process in recent weeks. A woman was in the intensive care of a hospital without knowing she had the virus. I agree with the questions raised by my colleague Mr Renkema. Then there was the RIVM press conference. It stated that there was a very small risk that children would develop the virus. Prompt was a child who still had the virus. My question to the Minister is: what exactly is the situation? I'm looking at the follow-up to this trial. The Outbreak Management Team advises that we should bet as long as possible on limiting the virus, but that we should also prepare ourselves for follow-up if this fails anymore. I have the following question to the Minister: can he take us with him in exactly how this process is going to proceed? Does this happen one step at a time? Are there any preparations for a serious scenario, the most serious scenario, or perhaps for both? I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u110	I have a very short question. Mrs Dik-Faber says, on behalf of the Christian Union, that she has been sufficiently informed. In the meantime, she is asking thirteen questions. Mrs Dik-Faber, are you sufficiently informed or do you just have a lot of questions because you are not sufficiently informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u111	I feel well informed about the steps taken by the Minister and about the RIVM approach. I also think that the information contained on the RIVM website is very appropriate. I also welcome the opening of a telephone number where people can ask their questions. I do have additional questions of clarification, and I believe that this can be done in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u113	Just a little while longer. Therefore, if you have any clarification questions, you are not fully informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u114	I do feel sufficiently informed. I'm here today to start the debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u115	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber complimenting the Minister on his communication to the outside world, but I also hear very different reactions to that. Also that clumsy note with the NOS and how that went. But I also hear Mrs Dik-Faber say something about the communication surrounding the reception of patients in nursing homes. And I hear about the lack of protective equipment for general practitioners and other health care professionals, which was first denied by the minister, but which was already recognised in the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. We are told from all sides that there are deficits from general practitioners themselves. Then you can't speak of very clear communication from the Minister's side, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u116	In his letter, the Minister informed us that the ROAZ's had been checked, the regional consultations... You know the abbreviation. It turns out there were no resource shortages. That surprised me. I assume that this information is correct and that the Minister has put his ear there to listen to. That information surprises me because, on the other hand, I hear from general practitioners that they are indeed concerned about the availability of medicines. I understand there's a sudden disappearance of protective equipment in hospitals. They are taken, for example, by visitors. When I hear these stories, I would like to make them part of the debate today. I think it is important that there is no misunderstanding about this. There should simply be sufficient protective equipment in the Netherlands and within Europe. That is why we need to put this on the agenda in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u117	I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber's content, but she herself found that the Minister was doing so well in communication, and I myself hear a great deal of criticism of this from the healthcare sector. When it comes to nursing homes and what has been written about them, when it comes to the non-existence of so-called shortages of protective equipment, but which are there, there is a great deal of criticism of the Minister's actions. Then I am surprised that Mrs Dik-Faber shares our concerns in substance, while the Minister receives extensive compliments on the way in which he has dealt with this. I think that's a bit of a coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u118	I take the Minister's letters very seriously. I also take the signals from general practitioners very seriously. I want to make that part of the debate today, because we all think that there should be adequate protection equipment for doctors, you and I, in the country. I think the Minister agrees, but we'll be hearing that from him soon. There must be no misunderstanding about that. That is why I am making that part of the debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr. Chairman. My question is also whether, in this context and in the future, it makes sense to look at the test capacity. I call the mobile testing centres, as in Germany, or the drive throughs, as in South Korea. Is that something that might also be mentioned in the scenarios for the Netherlands? The Red Cross in Italy helps with health checks at airports and it has also offered human resources and resources here. Is the Minister in the Netherlands, towards the future, also talking to the Red Cross about this? Then there are my other questions. The vaccines. It's being worked on in a lot of places. It is a global task in the interests of all countries. To what extent is there a coordinated approach by the World Health Organisation? What role does the Netherlands or Europe play in this? Is it not good to bring together funding from different countries to contribute to the most promising vaccines? Finally, on the subject of public communication. I think there's really good and a lot of communication from RIVM. People get a lot of information from the media, the GGD, the RIVM and the government. This information must be unambiguous, comprehensible and accessible. But there were still a few words that came by: "Social distancing, transmissions, case definition" which I thought were understandable to everyone? That is why I call for a closer look at this and for this information to be accessible to all persons, for example to people with auditory limitations. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u122	Mr. Chairman. Asian flu, SARS, Mexican flu. From time to time they're back, now corona, big virus outbreaks that startle a lot of people around the world. When we look back in history, fortunately, we see a lot of progress in health care on the one hand, thanks to science and technology, but on the other hand we realize that we know and can remain fragile, vulnerable, dependent people with all of us. That also makes us humble or, to put it in Bible language, humbly. I read from a church in Wuhan that put a prayer of humility on the internet, including the phrase I like to quote: "Be merciful to us, Lord, our bodies are weak and vulnerable as dust in the wind." Mr. Chairman. Those are also tones that appeal to me when you reflect as Mr Renkema and others did, on what is also at issue worldwide. Fortunately for many Corona has a mild course, a disease, and also receive healing. That's something we certainly shouldn't brush away. At the same time, it is global reality that there are also many seriously ill people and that people are in mourning for loved ones they saw getting away. Far away in China and in other countries, but also closer, in Italy more than 100 dead. I would also like to make it clear that in our thoughts and prayers we sympathize with them. The government, our government, is responsible for pursuing a sensible course in care and unrest, and that is a great deal. Not to contribute to panic, but to alertness, not to take unnecessarily far-reaching measures, but also not to wait and see. As a parliamentarians, I follow this closely, but I also feel a certain reluctance in our controlling role. Our basic attitude is one of confidence that, on the basis of expert insights and advice, an informed choice is always made and appropriate measures are taken. Especially when we are still in the middle of it, we do not have an urge to look at all the choices made in recent days and weeks. That will be discussed at a later date. Then I am thinking of an administrative and medical assessment as we have done before. Can I indeed assume, as I ask the Minister, that this will be the case again this time and that we can also look back with all the wisdom afterwards? Moreover, I have done so myself; it is always useful to look back. How, as a parliament, did we deal with the Mexican flu measures, for example? Then, in 2011, there was a discussion about it and there was actually criticism. Didn't we take too gloomy scenarios too quickly? Have we not taken too far-reaching measures under the influence of the media, with concern? That was the lesson back then. That shows how it listens closely each time and how you can either take a step too far to one side or take a step too far to the other. One lesson was also that the administrative coordination consultation was too little in the picture. I'm asking the Minister if that's better now. In addition to the outbreak management team, is that administrative coordination consultation well involved? And is the contradiction, also towards experts, always well organized? Mr. Chairman. It is also good to see today how the Minister makes his reflections in the process of taking and preparing measures. In addition to a number of legitimate questions, whether we are doing the right things, which should certainly be discussed in the future, I also have some more general questions. The Minister says that I keep hearing that coming back, and I understand that and also support a step-by-step approach, phased, proportionate, appropriate. But sometimes you also hear some critical negative voices: shouldn't you put a little more emphasis on the proactive, on the effectiveness? Shouldn't you also take more far-reaching measures, which may be a bit of a contradiction, but which can help to contain the virus more effectively, for example on travel advice? Other examples have also been mentioned. So, in addition to responding to these specific questions, I would also like to hear more broadly how the Minister weighs that, how he deals with that tension field. Because let's face it, it's never math. They always remain administrative choices in very difficult circumstances. People also wonder what they can do to prevent the spread of the virus. It is good that it is clearly communicated. I think that on national government.nl/coronavirus a lot of relevant information has been brought together clearly. It is very good to be very careful about this. I would also like to stress that we should not pretend that this website tells us exactly what we should do in all circumstances. There is always a responsibility of its own. I would particularly like to link this to international events. For example, I would speak on Friday at an international conference in Apeldoorn, with participants from various countries. The organisers have considered whether it is necessary to do so at the moment. There's always a certain risk to it. Can't we just do it later? That is a good example of taking a piece of responsibility. So let us also be clear then not everything that is not recommended by the experts, would all be wise at once. There is always room for self-responsibility. I do have a question for the Minister. When does he think that events, for example, involve administrative responsibility? That we can say: yes, beautiful, but is it really smart to do that at the moment? So what is the distribution of administrative responsibility? Is it clear who's up to it? Finally, because I see that my time is up, I agree with all the questions that have been asked about personal protective equipment in healthcare. Those are legitimate questions. It's good to talk about that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u124	Mr. Chairman. When a new unknown virus, such as the corona virus, which is not yet treated or vaccinated and which is spreading very rapidly, reveals itself, it is perfectly logical that there are worried reactions from society, that there are many questions and that there is increasing concern. Can I still go to work? Do you want me to pick up some groceries? You want me to go down the street with a mouth cap? Should we close schools, cancel events and close ports, airports and borders? From unknownness and uncertainty, I understand that primary reaction. There are many of them, and I had them at first. But as logical as this primary reaction is, it makes sense and should also be to listen to experts. They have the answers to those questions. It was, of course, an illusion to think that we could stop the virus at the borders of the Netherlands. On February 27th we had the first Dutchman infected with the coronavirus. With the arrival of the virus in the Netherlands itself, the unrest has also increased further. In my view, it is important to keep the peace, to keep things in perspective and to keep asking the right questions. Worldwide there are now more than 90,000 infected and unfortunately more than 3,000 people who died from it. That sounds like a lot without context. If we put the number of flu infected in the Netherlands next to the last flu season, there are 400,000 infected and about 2,000 people who have died, a different picture is already emerging. Does this mean we can sit back quietly? No, definitely not. But it does mean keeping the peace, not panicking and, above all, allowing the experts to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u125	Keeping peace is always good, of course, but when will the VVD and Mr. Veldman become restless? How many infections, how many victims do you get restless and do you think: well, maybe this is not such a small problem, as you have said in the past, but perhaps we should discuss this more often?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u126	I have good news for Mr Jansen. I am not getting restless, because I have great faith in Dutch care. If I compare the Netherlands with many other countries, then we are in a very good position. We have excellent general practitioners in the Netherlands, a huge network of general practitioners, we have excellent GGDs in the Netherlands, we have excellent hospitals in the Netherlands, we are the top of the world. So I don't worry, I rely on the experts, I rely on the doctors we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u127	Excellent answer, but the question was: how many infections and how many victims. Or do you really not care whether it's 1,000 or 10,000 infections? You don't care, you're all completely reassured, because we're top of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u128	This is a false question. May I change the number against Mr Jansen? Does he have any idea how many flu-infected people were in the United States last season, just to take a little bigger numbers? Does he have any idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u129	I am looking at the situation in the Netherlands, because I am here to represent the Dutch citizens. Since there are a little more people living in America than here, the numbers there are likely to be times 100 or times 200 compared to the number of cases in the Netherlands. But I think Mr Veldman will undoubtedly give me that answer, otherwise he will not ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u130	Sure, I'll tell Mr. Jansen. 26 million infected and 14,000 more dead. That only indicates that the question that Mr Jansen is asking me is a false question. Because it's not about the number of infected we have in the Netherlands, it's not about the number of people that might unfortunately die from it. Let us be happy that this is not the case yet and that most people are recovering. The point is: are we doing the right thing? The point is: is our care ready if there are more infected? Then I'm not worried. When I look at Dutch care and how it is being done, it reassures me, I see that good work is being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u131	Finally, all I can see is that Mr Veldman does not want to give the answer or cannot give it. That is all I can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u132	Look, it's not a question of wanting and not of being able, it's a question of seeing things in perspective. Then it's not that absolute. Mr Jansen's absoluteity of 'what number are you worried about' is not the point. The issue is: any number of professionals are able to act appropriately. That is the question before us. For now, that is the case. I am confident that this will be the case in the future. Because the Minister has kept the Chamber and society closely informed in recent weeks. Together with RIVM, the GGDs and other interested parties, information has been provided through different channels, telephone lines have been opened for those who have questions about the coronavirus and ask what measures to take themselves. The VVD considers that the Minister is acting adequately at the moment. Let me mention in particular Mr Van Dissel, also present today, of the RIVM: as far as I am concerned, the right man in the right place. He exudes peace and authority, explains things clearly and is clear about the stage in which we are now in the Netherlands, what measures fit in and what measures do not yet. Of course also my compliments for all those people at the GGD's, all those general practitioners who are working very hard at the moment to answer all the questions they reach and to do all the research that is needed. Mr. Chairman. The crucial question I have just said to Mr Jansen is: are we going to do the things that are needed? No more, no less. In this we must sail on the experts we have. When I hear Mr Van Dissel from the RIVM, I understand very well why we are not taking any draconian measures at this stage as we do in some other countries. So I do not really understand why there are people here too, non-experts, who do call for this. Let us now focus on what experts advise and not contribute to creating unrest and further increase the uncertainty. I endorse the steps the Minister is taking and has shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u133	I agree with Mr Veldman that rest is important and that we need to look soberly at what measures are now needed. But to pretend that there is nothing going on, that is of course the other way. He's actually saying, the crucial question is whether we're doing enough to stop the virus right now. But that's not the only crucial question. The question is also whether the fight against the virus does not put such pressure on general practitioners, the GGDs and hospital care that regular care is at risk. That is a question which I believe we must answer here. We hear from general practitioners that they are not only lacking in protective measures, but also that they are experiencing enormous pressure at the moment. That goes for the GGD, but in hospitals it can also just, within now and a few days, worsen if more departments have to close and if the absenteeism goes up. I would like to hear from the VVD what measures it is proposing to keep our health care system, which is very vulnerable because we are actually going along the edge of capacity in some places, up to this kind of extra workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr Hijink raises a number of valid questions. A number of colleagues have just done the same in their contribution. I think it's okay if the Minister answers to that. These are fortunately questions that we have already asked each other in technical briefings to Mr Van Dissel. What I have seen from this is that we are now taking appropriate measures. If we go to another phase... Containment, containment of... Mr Van Dissel even said literally last Tuesday: crush the virus. That's the stage we're in right now and what we're doing. If we go to another stage, he said, we will also take other measures, because then you must ensure that the pressure on care does not become too great. Because, of course, there are also people who have something else in their membership and who are scheduled for an operation, for example. Then we must ensure that the pressure on care and society is not unnecessarily increased. He told me you'd have to spread out. We are all asking good questions here now. Mr Van Dissel has indicated that there are protocols for this and that there are scenarios for that, so that is not new for us. I welcome the fact that you have put these questions back to the Minister. I assume that the Minister will give similar answers as Mr Van Dissel has given. So yes, it's a good question, but I think the answers are already a little familiar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u135	I appeal to the VVD because I believe that we not only have the responsibility to control the work of the minister but also the responsibility towards healthcare professionals to ensure that they can do their job. I am talking not only about fighting a new virus, but also about the means they need to have. Even dentists, who may not have so much to do with the corona virus at the moment, no longer have the means to do their job, as we see in Amsterdam. That is important and I think the VVD should have an eye for it. The fight against the virus is crucial, and we must do so, but let us not forget that the general practitioners are now under enormous pressure, even when it comes to regular care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u136	Sure. I fully agree with Mr Hijink. I had just arrived at those protective devices, especially the mouth caps. I am going to answer exactly what Mr Hijink probably wants to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u137	Mrs. Van Esch first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u138	I'd still like to go into the virus and press the head. In my own contribution, I indicated that an acquaintance of mine has the coronavirus. She doesn't have to tell anyone that she has that corona virus. I could have been visiting her, and then I wouldn't have to tell you that here. You don't have to do all that. I'm curious to see to what extent you think that approach is helping with the head-pressing of the virus right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u139	I can give a very legal answer to that, but I can also answer what I would do myself. What if I had it now? Then I'd tell that to my neighborhood: boys, keep your distance. I would probably have been advised not to stand here now, but to stay at home. The more legal answer we have to take into account in this Chamber is that we cannot oblige people to tell us what disease they have among the Members, just as well as we do not impose on people that they should disclose it to their environment if they are infected with the influenza virus. That also has something to do with privacy. I think it is perfectly logical that such an obligation should not be given to people. But I think it would be wise for people to be given to respect themselves and to take account of their environment. This is also on the website of RIVM. There's a lot of explanation: if you're not feeling well right now, when will you contact your GP and when will you contact the GGD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u140	The advice that my knowledge gets is not that she doesn't have to tell it legally. The advice now is you can tell me, but you don't have to. You can also give the advice as a GGD: tell it; you don't have to tell it, but it seems good to us to do so. But that advice is not given either. I find that a worrying point. Legally, you can't force those people to tell you, but you can certainly give the advice to at least tell them in their own environment, with which they were still in touch that week. 'Cause they can help with that. I am therefore curious to see why we cannot take this proactive attitude in the Netherlands, as is the case in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u141	I think that there is also a good and own responsibility for people themselves: the moment you are sick now, it doesn't really matter which virus you are infected with; that can also be the regular flu virus.You also tell your surroundings: people, keep your distance, otherwise you will get sick through me at the moment. In the article on the example you mentioned, in my opinion, from Helmond, I saw that those people themselves have quite nicely taken the responsibility to say: I'm staying home for a while, because I don't know what I have yet. That was before the tests were done. That seems a good step to take responsibility for your own behaviour and therefore for your environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u142	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u143	I would have stuck to the remark that I support the steps the Minister is taking and has shared with the Chamber. If the current situation persists longer, I am concerned about the availability of medicines, medical devices and, in particular, mouth caps. There seems to be a run on mouth caps, while it makes no sense for individuals to walk around the street with mouth caps. Professionals are threatening to run out of mouth caps. Is the Minister prepared, if necessary, to take firm action to ensure that professionals have access to the tools they need? Mr. Chairman. The emergence of a new, unknown virus or bacteria, such as the coronavirus, will not happen for the last time. The coronavirus makes it very concretely visible that, for example, we depend on China for the delivery of medicines. The need to reduce this dependence should be higher on the agenda. The concerns about resistant bacteria and the no longer available working antibiotics should be higher on our agenda. The question for the Minister is what information he can already share about his contacts with the new Commissioner in order to bring production back to Europe to reduce China's dependence in this respect, because we have discussed this with each other before. Mr President, I will conclude. Let's keep our peace and not cause unnecessary panic. Let us encourage the Minister to continue to act adequately on the basis of expert advice. And let us above all express the hope that the people who are now infected with the coronavirus will recover well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr Veldman is talking about bringing this type of resource to Europe, but do you not think that would be very much more expensive? Could we not simply build up stocks in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u145	At this point, I was specifically talking about drug production, not the mouth caps, if that's what you mean. We have previously exchanged views in the debate on the fact that the dependence of countries such as China and India on the production of generic medicines in particular is quite considerable. About 70% to 80% of production comes from those countries. The question is whether this is desirable. I don't think so. We now see very concretely that a number of factories in China are closed or producing at half capacity. So that has an effect on generics here. A large part of this Chamber, a majority of this Chamber, has said with you that the Minister must work with his colleagues in Europe in order to reduce this dependence, that we have more availability and production within Europe again, or that we, where there is such production capacity, among other things in Greece, are making considerable use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u146	We certainly agree on that when it comes to medication. However, I would like to insist that we at least begin to build up these stocks, including those relating to medicines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u147	I would very much like to answer that yes. I'll say, "Comma, but." You have to build stocks based on how much is needed. It doesn't make sense, especially with medication, to build infinite supplies, because at some point you have to destroy those things again. The fact that protective equipment, such as mouth caps, is now in danger of causing a shortage or, as I hear from some general practitioners and dentists, is due to the acute situation we are in. Individuals buy mouth caps and there are retailers among them who buy large-scale supplies to sell them. That is absurd, because we know with each other how much thanks to Mr Van Dissel in the technical briefings that wearing a mouth cap now makes no sense at all. Let's have those resources available to our professionals in particular. Hence my question: is the Minister prepared, if necessary, to take far-reaching steps? For example, that could be one of the steps that Macron has taken in France.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u148	You were ready? Mr. Hijink has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u149	Yesterday, when the SP made this proposal, it was precisely what is happening in France: protective equipment such as mouth caps are being advanced, so that they are kept for caregivers, the VVD called it "a very draconian measure'. And now you're actually saying it's time we went that way. So I wonder how that can change in a day. And what does the VVD think about the Minister saying this morning, in response to written questions from us, that he is absolutely not going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u150	There's no light, no air between what I said yesterday and today. Yesterday I called it "a draconian measure." That's what I'm still calling it today. It's a draconian measure if you confiscate all the protective equipment out there, if you confiscate all the mouth caps out there. That's a draconian measure. But I say here and now, today, to the Minister: I cannot judge it, but if that is necessary, then that is a step that can be taken as far as I am concerned, but when it is necessary. In short, bottomline: do what is necessary, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u151	Yes, 'do what is necessary', but in the end the Minister must take such a decision, at least if he wants the opportunity to do so. The question is: who will decide when such a measure should be taken? We now hear from all sides of general practitioners who have to do it with one mouth cap. We hear of dentists in Amsterdam who no longer have work at all because they do not have the resources. It seems to me, therefore, that the deficit is rather acute and that such a measure should therefore be taken as soon as possible. When does the VVD consider that a deficit is serious enough to implement such a measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u152	In my view, it is up to the Minister to decide in the end whether further steps should be taken. He must do so on the basis of the availability of the materials and supplies available. And yes, I see with you that parts of the Netherlands are calling the bell with the message: we are almost out of stock. And yes, I also see that in parts of the Netherlands it is said: perhaps we should exchange better among ourselves, because we still have stocks. I don't have a visual on the current stock. It's the minister's role to have that. Hence my question: if it is necessary, is he prepared to take the same word today as yesterday's draconian measures? If we have to, we have to. But if we do not have to do that, then I will be the first to stand here and say: it is an unnecessary, draconian measure. But it's up to the Minister to judge that. I ask him to do so and take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona virus really keeps us busy, and rightly so. It's a new virus, and it's still a lot unclear. Dealing with uncertainty is terribly difficult. D66 is particularly concerned about the vulnerable: older people and people with poor health. For them, this uncertainty is much greater. You're gonna think about it when someone in your neighborhood caught the virus. Correct and clear communication from the government and institutions is therefore especially important. Of course, there's always something to gain in that respect. I think we should be proud that we have good professionals and good scientists, such as the RIVM and the GGD network, who are currently making a lot of hours to help and guide us. We have every confidence that they are doing what they do right. For D66 it is therefore important that politics does not bother the fire department too much while it is extinguishing and letting the professionals do what they are good at. We need to take the virus very seriously and base ourselves on facts. And we must have plans ready to scale up when the need is high. There are three points on which we would like more clarity. It concerns European cooperation, communication and the situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. It is good to read that there are several players, such as ECDC and the European Commission, dealing with this dossier. It is not a national but a cross-border problem. European cooperation is essential here. What exactly is the European coronavirus response team set up by the European Commission going to do? What measures can Europe take to reach uniform agreements in the specific areas of vaccination development, travel advice, including agreements on air traffic and ports of refuge and the supply of sufficient medical devices? We have already discussed the latter: protective clothing, medication and so on. What can the Minister propose to the Health Council tomorrow on 6 March? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The strength lies in the repetition of concrete, unambiguous messages, for example on what measures and what measures are not necessary. RIVM has been able to scientifically well support those measures. However, we note that there is still uncertainty in some areas. Thus we see that there are companies that go beyond RIVM's recommendations and that there is uncertainty about preventive measures to be taken and the reporting of diseases. This is evident, among other things, from the increase in questions that healthy people themselves ask to, for example, the GP. We also notice from hospitals that there are doubts as to whether there are roadmaps ready for calamities. Can the Minister confirm, as indicated in the letter of 2 March, that emergency scenarios have been devised and ready? There is also some uncertainty about travel advice to different areas of the world. Can the Minister explain on what grounds these travel advices are determined? In order to provide realistic information and prevent the widespread spread of factual inaccuracies, the cabinet can communicate more clearly, for example through a daily corona update. Can the Minister provide for the need to share clear information from the government at a fixed time and through multiple channels? And can sign interpreters be present at important press conferences? Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the situation in the Caribbean Netherlands, where I have just been. On the French part of Saint Martin the first cases were noted. I know the RIVM and the KMar, the marshalssee, are well hooked. Does RIVM have sufficient insight into this area and does it provide sufficient assistance for this part of the Kingdom? Think of timely and quick testing and the timely isolation with sufficient resources available. I would like to conclude with the people who are infected and wish the people who care very much strength in these uncertain times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. Mr Jansen has been there for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u156	I still have a question for D66. I let you finish for a moment, because you were making a nice speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u157	That didn't take you much trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u158	No, I'm totally behind the lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u159	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u160	But I do have a question. RIVM has drawn up certain protocols and guidelines that we must all adhere to at this time. But I have just mentioned two examples. I would like to repeat them: the Jeroen Bosch Hospital and the TweeSteden Hospital. They both indicated that they found that someone was infected with the corona virus while they would not have noticed those infections if they had fully followed the RIVM guidelines. Do you agree with the PVV that there seems to be room between the RIVM guidelines and the practical cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u161	Yeah, that's right. There are uncertainties here. Those protocols exist and are good, but that doesn't mean that our professionals are always responsible for making choices and possibly testing, as doctors from hospitals told me. I think it's just and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u162	It's always good for professionals to follow their senses and feelings, but it should be the case that we all agree protocols that are similar for everyone and that are the same for all hospitals. Because now there are hospitals that want to go one step further and there are hospitals that don't. You can see that this may or may not cause contamination. That's not the right way to do it, is it? There's got to be a landline that applies to everyone, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u163	There's a landline, but that doesn't mean hospitals have to do more or less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u164	I am pleased that Mrs Diertens points out the importance of unambiguous and daily communication and that it is also important for everyone to be able to find this information. I am also pleased that she is in favour of not forgetting the Caribbean Netherlands. In this respect, we are completely united. However, I would like to continue with these protocols, because unambiguous communication also implies that the minimum that everyone should do should be done everywhere. Does Mrs Diertens agree with the CDA that this applies, so to speak, to all health care providers and mayors, so that everyone takes the advice of RIVM and GGD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u165	Yeah, I'm sure I'm okay with that. I also call for clear communication. I have also indicated that I am thinking of an update via a coronavirus journal or whatever, so that the uncertainty created by mismanagement or misinformation is filtered out. When I see what comes along on social media I can also imagine that people are very worried about it, because it is almost impossible to filter out what is true and not true anymore. I believe that we, as a government, have a responsibility to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u166	I'm glad D66 and the CDA are all in line in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u168	Mr. Chairman. I understand the Minister's showing himself to be competent. He radiates peace and quiet, and he watches over us appropriately. Only, the closer I get to him, the more fluer I get. I'll do my best. Five months ago, Mr Baudet asked twice for a debate on the spread of the new coronavirus. It was thrown away rather carelessly at the time. They said it'll come during the AO. That laconic reaction persisted. Surely we wouldn't be affected by such a widespread outbreak of the corona virus? The reaction of the RIVM was also strange. After a corona infection in Tilburg, the RIVM director thought that the large-scale spread of the virus during carnival was unlikely, because one would finally celebrate carnival in a small group. What an expertise! The courage is already sinking into the hands of the citizen. That doesn't give the impression of a supreme state of preparedness, does it? Let me be very clear: Forum does not advocate panic or paranoia, but realism and proper preparation for an epidemic with serious consequences for people and society. It's possible that a lot of people are getting sick. Outbreaks of the coronavirus are often concentrated locally, as we have seen in Italy. General practitioners and hospitals can suddenly be overwhelmed by patients and concerned citizens. Are they adequately prepared for this? What if a lot of worried people suddenly want to get tested? How many days are PCR tests available? What happens to the children when schools have to temporarily close their doors? How is it decided when and how to do this? It is important that there are clear protocols for this and that public institutions are aware of this. Are there any? Can the Minister indicate which protocols are available for this purpose? There are three issues at the heart of Forum. First of all... The legitimate concerns of the population can best be addressed with full openness. The mouth may be covered, but reality is not. We therefore welcome the fact that RIVM has returned at its pace and is now publishing the new corona cases per municipality. We urge all concerned to give the greatest possible openness to the state of play. Funnyness increases concerns. Second. In case of doubt: testing, testing, testing! Access to a test on the coronavirus shall be low-threshold. There were reports that the Radboud, the medical center in Nijmegen, tested anyone with respiratory problems on the coronavirus. According to the AD, that would be contrary to the RIVM protocol. In that case, the Radboudumc has made a correct decision. Any reluctance of RIVM to test can have disastrous consequences, both for the sick and for society. Will the Minister see to this? Thirdly, capacity increase. There have already been reports of a lack of mouth caps in hospitals. They have been brutally destroyed, but I heard that academic hospitals and RIVM are organising an emergency meeting today to discuss the lack of reception capacity and PCR tests. Can the Minister inform us of the outcome of this? How many tests are still available in the Netherlands? How long is the lead time, the time in the laboratory from the time of testing to the result? A physician working in this circuit whispered to me that the lead time is a week. Is that right? If so, it's too long. Wouldn't it be better to advise all tested individuals urgently on self-quarantine? What is the Minister going to do to increase the number of PCR tests as soon as possible and to shorten the lead time? Finally. India has announced that it will no longer export paracetamol. This requires reflection. Are we too dependent on abroad for essential medicines and other medical articles? If other countries no longer export their products in the event of a pandemic, will the Netherlands be in trouble? Is there a plan for this? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u169	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. Mr Jansen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u170	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. We go all the way back to the beginning of Mr Hiddema's contribution. You indicated that your party colleague had requested the debate. However, I would like to point out that the PVV voted in favour of the debate, so not everyone has swept it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr Jansen, I accept that remark in all kindness, because I do not wish to create any illusions among those involved that I would like to make party political points of view here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u172	At that same point, though. Indeed, a number of times have been asked for a debate. We also had an AO on infectious diseases. That's where Forum didn't show up. I do not see Mr Baudet today, but fortunately you do, but, Mr Hiddema, you were not present at two of the three technical briefings by the RIVM. You have been to one of the three and left without asking questions, but now you are quite certain in your views on the RIVM. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u173	The views that I now seek have come to me and I am now expressing them. It doesn't matter when.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u174	You have not answered my question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u175	Well, it's my opinion. You heard them. I don't have to tell you how I got my views, do I? If you disagree with the substance of the matter, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u176	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u177	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to extend my warmest wishes to anyone who is personally affected by the virus or has children or relatives who have been affected. 'Cause it's just awful when it happens to you. Mr. Chairman. I would like to put a number of questions to the Minister. My first question concerns information to the public. Others were talking about that, too. As I see it, this information has become more extensive and more accessible. In the beginning it was sometimes difficult to find and complicated. Is there now also a bit of a regular check to see if people can easily take the information that is provided? Can you understand that, too? Because sometimes we lose ourselves in jargon, when it is so important that it is clear and clear what we should or should not do. Then I would like to ask the Minister a number of questions about how the corona virus is handled, about the risks for the patients and certainly for the care staff. Mr. Chairman. General practitioners let you know that sometimes they find it difficult to handle the power of calls properly. Of course, it's perfectly understandable that people are going to call. The paramedics are already overloaded anyway. While I'm standing here, they should get a BIG registration, because they do a lot of independent work. But how can these general practitioners be relieved? What can the Minister do for that? Mr. Chairman. How does the Minister, on the basis, I assume, estimate from expert advice that there is a great risk in care personnel? We've seen some intensive cares are closed. There are also outpatient clinics closed. Where can health care staff deal with his questions? Could they possibly be tested before if they need it, rather than being advised by RIVM for other people? Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to a question about the protective materials. Others were asking about it, too. I understand that it makes no sense for me to buy a mask. I'm gonna have to wash my hands. But I notice that other people like to buy masks anyway. This leads to shortages, for example in dental practices. Does the Minister or RIVM have an eye for and insight into how that protective material is distributed? What will he do if there are reports of structural deficits? Mr. Chairman. Not only protective materials capture capacity, but also sick people. What does it mean for care in a particular city or region when departments of hospitals are closed down or temporarily closed down? Who actually supervises that care is sufficiently accessible to everyone? Does the inspection have a role in that? Does the Minister keep an eye on that himself? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question about cooperation with European colleagues. I'm from a border region myself. I know that a prescription in the Netherlands does not exist on the Belgian side or is different, and the other way around. In everyday life, you can live with that. You can even take advantage of that. At least that's how it used to be when a pack of cigarettes was cheaper in Belgium. By the way, I quit smoking. But of course this is something else. It is really confusing when people on the German side of the border get different rules than on the Dutch side. Has the Minister consulted with his colleagues? What's the point of this meeting? What is the outcome of the consultation with all EU colleagues? Is there, after all, a desire for clear information? I would very much like to hear more about that. Mr. Chairman. In anticipation of a situation which we all hope will not arise, but on which I would really like some clarity: imagine that there will be a major outbreak in the Netherlands. So what's the definition of that? What's a major outbreak? What concrete measures will the Minister take if capacity is to be increased? Then who's in charge of that? Is that the Director of Public Health of that region? So can that director give orders to hospitals and caregivers? Does he or she have the perseverance to say: now this care is going to take place, or, now this department needs to expand? Who's that about, anyway? Who's in charge of that? Mr. Chairman. One could imagine that the public interest and market forces are going to collide. Who's gonna intervene? Is that the Minister? Is that the inspection? Is that the NZa? Is that the security region? I think it is important to know, even though we hope that such a major outbreak will not happen to us, how those lines run and who is ultimately in charge of ensuring that our interest, the public interest, is guaranteed and secured. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. And once again, I want you to feel better about everyone affected by the corona virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u178	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-4.u179	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. Then we'll start with the arrangement first. After that, the Minister will answer the questions put by the Members of Parliament.
