ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with oral Question Time. I give Mr Van Dam, on behalf of the CDA, the first speaker, the floor for his question to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome, on Ukrainian MH17 prosecutors who have been relieved of their duties. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. On March 9th, the criminal trial against four suspects of shooting flight MH17 starts at Schiphol Airport. More than five years after taking down that flight in July 2014, justice will be started, not only for the 298 people who died, but also for the next of kin who are facing that loss to this day. The public criminal trial will be an important part of reconstructing what has happened, not only on that fatal day in July 2014, but also in the weeks and months before. What role did the four suspects play? But also: what connection is there with others, who may still have to stand trial in the future? But let's also name it: what's the connection to the Kremlin? We all know that there have been contacts in Russia about delivering the Buk to the highest level. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, we were shocked by the report that the Ukrainian government is taking five of the six prosecutors involved in the JIT, the Joint Investigation Team, who have successfully been prosecuted, off the case less than a month before the session. I don't understand. A month before the hearing, a month before such an important event, change your top team. What's going on here? Last summer we already had the prisoner exchange between Ukraine and Russia, where there were also big questions to ask about what is now the intention of the Ukrainian government. And mind you: so far we haven't had to complain about that. I have some questions for the Minister. How long has it been known on the Dutch side that this change was coming? I understand that the Dutch Public Prosecutor already knew about this last autumn. Why did the Minister not inform the Chamber about this, for example in the letter sent to the Chamber last week? Is it true that the Dutch state's attorney's office isn't concerned? Isn't that a little premature? Is it true that new people will not be appointed to the Ukrainian side for another month? So what's gonna happen in the meantime? What does this exchange mean for the continuity of criminal proceedings?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. At the end of last year, as part of a major reform of the legal system in Ukraine, a law was passed by the Ukrainian parliament with implications for the appointment of prosecutors. In the interest of the start of the criminal proceedings on 9 March, as of last autumn, the Netherlands, in its regular consultations at various levels, asked the Ukrainian authorities for attention to the importance of historical awareness and continuity. This was done by Minister Blok from both the State Department and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and last month in Davos by our Prime Minister. In those talks and in contact with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian authorities expressed their support for and support for the importance of historical awareness and continuity. Now there were two Ukrainian prosecutors involved in the JIT team. One of the two remained as special advisors, so that continuity can be guaranteed. Two other Ukrainian officers are appointed within the JIT, the Joint Investigation Team of a number of countries that have lost their countrymen in bringing down the MH17. According to the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office and according to the JIT, the consequences will be as limited as possible. I have confidence in the approaching MH17 process. It has also been carefully prepared for years and the research dossier is completely up-to-date. Therefore, Ukraine's D.A. remains an involved JIT partner and the change of these two officers, one of whom will remain truly involved as advisors, does not change that. In last week's letter, we shared the latest state of affairs regarding the file and the approaching criminal proceedings. This personal change dates back to December. In view of the confirmation by the Ukrainian authorities that continuity would remain ensured, there was no reason to include this further in that letter. In any case, that has not been a deliberate consideration. I thought that's how I answered Mr Van Dam's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u5	I think that answer is entirely in line with... It's almost as if the Ukrainian government is speaking here. When I read the article in NRC, the interview with the prosecutors themselves that concerns this, I see that there is no word of Spanish. Of the six prosecutors involved in this investigation, five were fired. They had to take an exam, which they themselves said they wouldn't make it. Isn't that supposed to mean something to this investigation? I would point out that this was already known in the autumn and that it has already been discussed with the Dutch Public Prosecutor and apparently also at government level. You can count on the fact that this gives a certain impression to the politicians involved, to MPs, and to anyone involved in or interested in this investigation. That impression is certainly reinforced now that we have to read it from the newspaper. So far, Ukraine's role in the investigation has been exemplary in terms of recovering material surpluses, recovering the aircraft and being involved in the judicial investigation. That's changing, and there's my concern. I would like to know from the cabinet how they look at this changing attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u6	That is clearly what I am doing again in terms of the quality of the Dutch minister. I let many things lean on me, but I do not let myself be fooled that it is suggested here that I speak as a Ukrainian government. I'm gonna say that out loud sometime. I really think that's going too far. Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to the matter. Guarantees for the future cannot be derived from past achievements, but Mr Van Dam himself has already indicated that Ukraine has played an exemplary role here so far. The fact that legislation has been amended in Ukraine is something that I, as Minister of Justice, obviously do not play any further role in. I've had a lot of responsibilities, I've noticed, but I just haven't. And I understand from the D.A.'s office... Of course, that's what this is about, because our Public Prosecutor has an important leading role in that Joint Investigation Team and especially in the process that is about to start. There has been sufficient confirmation from Ukraine that continuity of engagement and also historical awareness will be guaranteed. Moreover, the process of MH17 is one that the Chamber and the Cabinet together, each in its own role, continue to follow critically and continuously. That's still gonna be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u8	I think it is right that the Minister corrects me when it comes to my comment on the Ukrainian government. I apologize for that. It's the content of what I'm saying that matters to me. I believe that, in the response so far, there has been a great deal of thought in the movement that the Ukrainian government is now making. I think we differ on this, but I have no further questions to ask at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. I share Mr Van Dam's concerns. After the previous prisoner exchange with Tsemach, we now have this case. The Minister speaks of as limited consequences as possible, but in fact he says that there are consequences. The minister says it was known in December, but he saw no need to communicate about it. At least that didn't go consciously. I would like to ask the Minister what guarantees he has that this will not affect the process. I believe it is of the utmost importance that the trial should ensure that those responsible receive the punishment they deserve, and that Ukraine's actions in no way undermine this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. I think that is a very good point, because that is what it is about in the end: the process must be able to take place qualitatively and sharply. I have spoken to the Public Prosecutor about this, because that is, of course, mainly my responsibility. The Public Prosecutor has explained to me that at the stage when the Joint Investigation Team's investigation was brought in preparation for the case file, in the case file itself and in the knowledge and technological know-how contained in that JIT, sufficient safeguards are in place to ensure that the process is really going to be conducted properly. In addition, there is the Ukrainian government's commitment to continue to ensure continuity through the detention of one of the officers as JIT advisors. Furthermore, I have a lot of confidence in the qualities invested in the JIT and in the skill of our Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you.
