ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the plenary debate on housing shortage. It is a broad subject that I am trying to limit to the theme of housing shortage. We have many speakers who find this an interesting subject, twelve speakers from the Chamber. I think it is important for the speakers to have enough room to interfere. That's why we agreed to do three interruptions on each other, in two with a final word. When the Minister speaks, we do two interruptions in two with a final word. We have all night for this important subject. If we agree on these rules, we can make it a nice debate. I would also like to point out that Mr Ronnes has been kind enough to put Mr Bishop before him because he has to be elsewhere because of obligations. He will then leave the Chamber, I understand, and at least not until the end of the debate. Mr Bishop actually has the lead in this debate as the first speaker. The speakers have six minutes. I'd be happy to give you the floor first, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank you for the floor. I would then like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to my fellow Members for having been kind enough to put me on the list of speakers. In particular, of course, I would like to thank Mr Ronnes for even allowing me to open 'his' debate and to make my contribution, when he is the first speaker to have the right to do so. Actually, I had another appointment at 4:00. I wish you all well and thank you all very much for your collegiality. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is now well over half its reign. It's good to make an interim balance. Unfortunately, the problems on the housing market did not decrease during that period. On the contrary, the housing shortage has increased enormously. It's a crisis, it's said. There are hardly any homes for teachers, policemen, care workers, start-ups, the elderly and caregivers, with all the consequences. Just look at the teachers who are moving away from the big cities, which leads to a further shortage of teachers there. It is good that money was made available last year, but with EUR 2 billion spread over many years, of course, we are far from getting there. Mr. Chairman. The time for talking and making plans is now over. There's gotta be a lot of construction at last. The Minister's letter says very strikingly: we need a big extra step. Great! Roll up your sleeves, grab them and pack them up! I'm gonna tell the minister to get on top of it and get that direction. We should not do that with the overruling of other governments, I know, but there is tighter control and more control possible than there is at present. And yes, indeed, the municipalities play an important role in housing and the provinces are also involved, look at the issuances of locations and determining them. The lack of sufficient construction sites is devastating and therefore there is no construction. My question to the Minister is therefore: how does the Minister ensure that each municipality realizes the urgency of the problem and spends enough building sites? And is the Minister willing to invest more in the issuance of construction sites? Investing and stimulating, maybe. Does the Minister agree with me that apart from the inner city there should also be external construction? I realize that this is a somewhat heretical remark for some people, but given the need and need for housing, this is a point that needs to be seriously considered. As mentioned above, the municipalities are an important player in the housing market. It is good to stay in dialogue with them and make binding agreements if necessary. I call on the Minister not to cut off local democracy, but to stand next to it. I sometimes hear sounds, and maybe that's ignorance, that the Empire is going to build thousands of homes in certain municipalities. Of course, that's not true. The Minister will agree with me that the Empire must come out together with the municipalities and that the Empire will not decide for the municipalities. Some municipalities want to work themselves and build their own homes. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Bishop, there's a question for you from Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u4	Can I just say one more sentence? Then I've finished this cup. Is the Minister prepared to allow housing under conditions by municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u5	I heard Mr Bishop talk about building in outer territory, outside the contours. Can Mr Bishop, if there is to be an external construction, indicate what kind of areas they are and what kind of functions there are in those areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u6	The practice will usually be as it has almost always been in recent decades. Originally these are agricultural areas. What shoots through my head is an area in the vicinity of Almere, where about 25,000 homes could be built. You are indeed sacrificing agriculture to that. The alternative is nature reserve. I fear that pleading for nature reserve would be about the highest form of heterodox, so I do not argue for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u7	Indeed, it is true that a lot of the outermost area is agricultural land. But I did not hear Mr Bishop say that he wants to build on one specific location at Almere's outskirts. This location has been in the picture for at least ten years, maybe 15 years. I have heard Mr Bishop say: we must build much more outwardly. But if we are going to build far more externally, that means that there is less room for agriculture in the Netherlands. Is that what the SGP wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u8	In order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to quote myself: does the Minister agree with me that apart from inner city there should also be external construction? So you don't just have to focus on urban building, but you also have to look at explaining areas. I think it's got to be a mix that, hopefully, gets the frozen housing machinery moving a little bit. That is the background to this remark. I can also imagine, quite simply, that we are allowing it to be around a number of small cores where there is a need to build a few cottages for our own inhabitants, but where there is hardly room for them. Those are not the large numbers, but that brings you back a bit of those tight red contours, which are strangled around residential cores. And as a result, you promote that in a natural way social care is also more or less organized and promoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u9	I am going to have Mrs Dik-Faber make her final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u10	Rounding up. We have previously received reports from the VNG that the entire construction site can be realized within the city, including the Vinex locations and the rafel edges. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, there is no need to sacrifice large-scale agricultural land to urban planning. Unfortunately, I hear the SGP telling a different story here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr Bishop, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u12	Realizing a million homes in the long run isn't gonna happen to me. If we now find that we are in a housing crisis, you must, with the total task in mind, work towards a mix and make that train move again. I agree with you that we have the open space to deal with carefully. I very much agree with that. But to focus only on urban building, with an enormous complexity surrounding it, I wouldn't want to take responsibility for policy if I had the administrative responsibility for it. I would look for a good mix, which achieves a sustainable form of expansion of housing numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u13	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to add the point of the one-earners. In this file, one earners and one single person are excluded. According to a study by De Hypotheker, only 4.3% of the houses are available to them. This percentage has only fallen in recent years, even at a rapid rate. How is the Minister going to ensure in concrete terms that earners and single people can rent or buy a home? Mr. Chairman. The housing deals can make a nice contribution to the housing offer. I read in the letter about concrete ambitions. That is wonderful, of course, but how many of these concrete ambitions are now concrete construction projects? Then the point of the housing corporations. In the previous cabinet period, we have severely restricted the space for housing corporations to operate outside the actual core task. There was every reason for that at the time. We also see a little bit now that the space that housing corporations do not have to do anything outside their SGEIs, so to do a little more from their non-DAEB job, also has its drawbacks. The minister says housing corporations can do more from their non-DAEB job. SGEIs are: services of general economic interest. That is the core task of the housing associations. How does the Minister see this concretely, without giving you room for the excesses, which, a few years ago, severely restricted the space for housing corporations? Are you willing to expand the ability to build in the non-DAEB task? The new construction of social housing has been falling for years. In 2018, only 13,000 of these houses were built. How are you going to ensure that corporations can continue to contribute to housing in the future, I ask the Minister. As of next year, the allocation rules for social housing will be adjusted. This puts even more pressure on the market for social housing, regardless of the bill rental and income limits. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Is the Minister prepared to apply the wider allocation rules for housing corporations beyond 2020? Finally. We also read that livingability in some residential areas runs backwards, for example in neighbourhoods with a lot of social rentals. What possibilities does the Minister see to prevent this? Mr President, I still had a solemn closing word, but I will leave that alone, because my time is up. Thank you very much. I apologize for not being able to attend the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u15	I'm sure you've got an employee listening in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u16	Absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u17	I would like to give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. Everyone knows someone who is desperately on a long list of house seekers in front of a rental house, or someone who is outbid for the tenth time at a store. It's going bad, but we knew that before. Unfortunately, so far, the cabinet has failed to turn the tide. With the Housing Agenda, the Minister, and with it the Cabinet, wants 75,000 new homes to be built, but the signals are not good. Through PAS and PFAs, all forecasts indicate that we are not going to meet the target in the coming years. The permit issue for new buildings has been reduced. That started before the nitrogen pronunciation. Many plans are soft and it is doubtful whether the ambition of 75,000 is sufficient, as the revised forecasts are based on data from the CBS and are higher than they were before. Today we can talk about many aspects of housing policy: rental prices, landlord tax, emergency button, self-inhabitation and whatnot. But the real problem is the shortage of homes. As the Netherlands, for various reasons, we have failed to build enough homes. If it is up to the CDA, the outcome of this debate should be that more work is going to be done on building affordable homes, many affordable homes. In our view, the Minister should turn four buttons. Housing should take place at a higher rate. With the current pace, the offer simply remains too small. Innovation can help, but it can also put more pressure on local authorities. There must be more places where it can be built, because the development of the sites used takes too long. This applies both to permanent destinations and temporary residences. Corporations should be set up in order to make an additional contribution to that construction statement. We don't make maximum use of that right now. Rural areas, shrinking regions and anticipation regions should be part of the solution. The acceleration of more housing does not go by itself. Everyone is aware of this by now. That requires more direction. We finally read in the Minister's letter that she is really going to strengthen the direction. It's been a while, but we're seeing a turnaround. That's a good thing, but are we really gonna go through with this? Municipalities together with provinces are the first move. We therefore welcome the fact that the Minister is going to make real agreements on hard planning capacity. This is too late, because we had asked for this before. As far as we are concerned, the Minister really intervenes when necessary, as previously happened under the Fourth Note on Spatial Planning Extra, in which a number of housing locations were designated from the national point of view. The debate on the contents of the NOVI will be very important in the coming months. Well, here's a vengeance that Living doesn't have its own ministry. Living is done by one of the ministers. There is also no more National Planning Service. Our group would like to see another ministry of VROM, with its own National Planological Service. The service should provide a vision for the Empire and other governments and help carry out decentralised tasks, which are very complex. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the National Real Estate Company. The CDA thinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u19	On the previous point, there is a question from Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u20	I think it is a very interesting proposal. The SP has made this proposal before: again a Ministry of Living, a Ministry of VROM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u21	It must be a Ministry of Housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u22	Housing, absolutely, beautiful. It was Stef Blok, however, who was proud of himself at the end of the previous cabinet period: I am the first VVD to disappear an entire ministry. Does the CDA, which is now a coalition with the same VVD, admit that it was a mistake, including from its own party, that there is no Ministry of Housing for this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u23	The Ministry was actually housed at the Ministry of the Interior. Switching ministries, where whole groups of officials are transferred from one ministry to another, is not something you do every four years. We are therefore reluctant to do so. If you see what the housing market is doing at the moment, then it is necessary that the Ministries of Housing and Spatial Planning, together with the environmental task, really cooperate well with each other. In the meantime, the housing market is very different from when this cabinet started, because developments have been very rapid over the last two years. In previous Cabinets it has even been so that Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment were covered by several ministries. We think it can really be a backup if it takes place under one hat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u24	That is a very long answer, but I think I understand Mr Ronnes: it was actually a wrong choice, including from his party, not to do so at this time. According to Mr Ronnes, has the fact that there was no own ministry also deepened the housing crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u25	Again, at the beginning of this cabinet there was no Ministry of VROM. It is therefore not the case that it has changed at the beginning of this cabinet. I have not been present in the negotiations myself, so I cannot say whether it has been discussed at all. However, I think that if we look at the shortages in the housing market and how rigid the realisation of housing is going to be, it might have been a sensible choice. That is also the reason why we are now saying, together with the Labour Party, that it is time for another ministry to take control and get more direction. Everyone's own responsibility applies, in principle, to local authorities, but it must be possible to proceed if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u26	It's a short word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u27	I think that is a very good proposal and I very much support it, but it should not be an excuse to do nothing at all in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u28	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u29	We have lost many years now because of the lack of that direction. I think that's a danger. I would therefore like to say to Mr Ronnes that perhaps we should have a committee like the Borstlap committee on the labour market, so that we can already see what is needed to set up that ministry again. Otherwise, we have lost years in which the cabinet has only aggravated the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u30	The latter does not fall within my definition of "a short word," I would like to give the Chamber. Mr. Ronnes, you can still respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u31	I hear Mrs Beckerman's suggestion. I think it would be very good if we were to get this on the road towards the next cabinet period, and that this would be well balanced and given a good place in the formation of the next cabinet. I agree with Mrs Beckerman that this should certainly not be an excuse not to do what we have to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr Ronnes spoke the magic words: we need to build faster and more affordable. I used to have a colleague who would say, "That's apple pie." We all like it, but how are we gonna bake that cake? We've been discussing this for years. Mr Ronnes indicated that there are not enough social housing to be built. What's the cause of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u33	There are several reasons for this. The figures for 2018, the latest known figures of the corporations, show that there was money on the shelf for 22,000 homes, but that only 13,000 homes could be realized because they simply didn't have the locations. That's one cause. We are also aware that there is a financial pressure on the corporation sector to achieve a larger task than the 22,000. There is that need; we all see that. We have asked the Minister to look at how the financial position of the corporations relates to the task through a very large study. In doing so, we need to look carefully at whether we should intervene there. I told you before, this landlord tax is on its last legs. That is the next appeal I put on the board of the next cabinet: there will have to be a lot of discussion about this landlord tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u34	That's lazy politics, isn't it? Actually, you say we see a big problem. In fact, on November 19th, the CDA's scientific institute presented a wonderful study that said: away with the landlord tax! But also the market test, which, although it has built between €720 and €1,000, is a thorn in the eye of housing corporations. I also mention the increase of the Vpb by the ATAD. Why doesn't the CDA just say stop with the landlord charge, stop with the market key and stop with the Vpb based on the ATAD, which was never meant for that? Can the CDA go along with that? Or does the CDA say: no, we like to leave that to others, because that is our way of doing politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u35	No. Believe me, we are indeed heading in that direction, but it must be thorough. We believe that this money can be better spent on affordable homes, preserved homes and new buildings. That's how I'm going with you. But let's do it in the right steps. The cabinet has now released 1 billion for corporations. We read in the letter that 500 million have already been asked out for new construction. That extra money for the corporations turns out to be really doing its job. There's gonna be more construction. This period has therefore been compensated. The corporation sector and a lot of other interested parties are now engaged in research and mapping this well. Now let's not jump the gun, but go very well and use the results of that research to discuss how we set it up, because this part is much more complex. We're pumping 4 billion in rent subsidies into the social sector, and we're making 1.7 billion out of it. Maybe it comes out that you can handle it in a practical way. Let's just wait and see about that investigation. For now, we can work with the 1 billion that the cabinet has made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u36	The interruptions need to be a little more limited. Mr Azarkan with a final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u37	You mean: the answers must be more tailored to the question. The honourable Member spoke for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u38	Both, and the answers also need to be a little shorter. I'm not talking about content. I'm talking about length.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u39	This is really too easy and too lazy politics. If we really want to mean something to the people who can't have housing right now and the housing corporations who have this job and who say "these are the three things that get in our way," then we have to treat them seriously and say: we're just going to abolish it, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u40	You may respond to that. Otherwise, I would like to give the floor to Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u41	I shall do so briefly, and I shall repeat a piece of the answer I have just given. With this 1 billion, the budget has been secured, the housing corporations are getting into business in the coming year, and in a subsequent cabinet period we are explicitly questioning this 1.7 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u42	I'd like to continue with this. On the one hand, it is of course incredibly positive that the CDA has seen the light and says: the Ministry of VROM has to go back and the landlord levy has to go away. My question to you is very simple: what are you going to do now? It's probably another year and a half before there's a new cabinet. It takes much longer before all kinds of plans are made. What are you going to do in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u43	If you've been paying attention, you've been able to see what we've been betting on in the past year. You can see that the cabinet is now also starting to move to take more direction in the housing market. We have proposed, for example, that a location such as Rijnenburg be moved forward, a location where 25,000 homes can be built. It is especially your party who is hoping to do so. We have proposed that Pampus be brought forward and that there be a greater speed. We put pressure on Valkenburg to build in Valkenburg. I have argued in favour of simplified procedures in relation to the Flora and fauna law and the Archaeology law, in order to speed up construction procedures. Then what are you coming with? You all want to build barricades. We're just trying to build faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u44	What a joke, this, and I really mean it. Because what has the CDA been doing in recent years to pull up some kind of smokescreen around the fact that the government, your coalition, isn't doing anything? Just point to municipalities that don't want to build in the green. That's the defense line the CDA's coming with. Rijnenburg? In ten years, at the earliest, if you get what you want. That is not the solution to the housing crisis now. The solution to the housing crisis now is to make renting affordable again for people. What is the CDA doing in that respect? An open question: is the CDA prepared to intervene in the market forces of the private rental sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u45	Here really comes the monkey from the sleeve where the problem is. GroenLinks wants to debate forever about creating stacks of rules and then fails to work on sufficient construction sites. Today's debate is about: how do we get enough homes? You want to be in the housing policy... I said that in my introduction. We can build whole trees about that. We shouldn't do that today. We need to make sure that it's built. That is the problem we are trying to solve today. If you have any good suggestions for that, I'd like to think along with you. But then we have to find each other on that and not all of us have to work on sub-topics that do not create more homes, but only make it less built.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u46	And all through me. Oh, that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u47	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u48	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u49	Few homes are being built now, because the CDA has created the PAS and the nitrogen miserable. There are few houses built, because Mr Koerhuis of the CDA, sorry, of the VVD, does not want to do anything about the landlord tax now. It would be good if Mr Ronnes would admit it. I think there's a great majority in the Chamber to say right now that the landlord levy has to be cancelled. You want that, too, but you can't do that from the VVD. Then there really are more homes being built.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u50	This is really a misrepresentation of things. You say the problem is in all kinds of peripherals. It is at the heart of the matter that there are too few homes. We've got locations to take care of. Those social rental homes are not built, because the corporations do not have enough locations. They've got money on the shelf for 22,000 homes and they're only building 13,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u51	A lot has changed about the landlord's tax. I think this cabinet has taken a good step in that direction. But now we have also received the report from the Forest Committee, which has advised on housing for the elderly. Older people are stuck in their family home, would like to flow through and may need care, but those homes are not there. The Bos Committee has advised: look again at the landlord tax. Should we not take the step to give a discount on the landlord's tax if housing corporations are indeed going to build these houses? That is what the Christian Union very much wants. My question is: does the CDA want that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u52	I suggested that myself last year in a motion, but in the end we decided to do a major study to see how to make the landlord tax work to make housing possible. But I will go all the way with you: we not only need to build enough homes, but also for the good target group. There is indeed a grim shortage of senior homes. That is why it is a good thing that we put the cabinet to work not so long ago to ensure better monitoring, so that municipalities will create sufficient senior homes. That's my reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u53	It is very good that we now monitor whether municipalities are going to build more of these houses. But there is a specific opinion from the Forest Committee. In fact, that's also the investigation we've been asking for together. That committee concludes that there are far too few homes for the elderly. It concerns tens of thousands of homes, and you could do something about that by taking another step in the landlord's tax. Is the CDA willing to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u54	We always want to think anyway. Only the problem is that senior housing in many regions is not built by corporations but by people themselves, and then the landlord levy has no role in that. I would like to think along, but I do not see this as the great solution to the problem that lies ahead. We need to get locations and build those homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u55	A very short closing word. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u56	We need not only private initiatives, but also initiatives by housing corporations for older people with a smaller wallet. So let's look together at how we can work on the landlord tax and encourage housing corporations to do more for this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u57	Let's take a look at that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u58	I would like to continue on the polder Rijnenburg in Utrecht, where you want to build houses. I find it interesting that the locations that the CDA calls, among other things, are now just agricultural land. That's where farmhouses are. That's now meadow area, where cows graze. At present, the Animal Party is not in favour of building in Rijnenburg nor of converting agricultural land into housing. I want to make sure that the CDA is now in favour of converting agricultural land into housing. Is that really the policy that the CDA is going to implement? I find that interesting. There is indeed a lot of agricultural land in the Netherlands. I find this interesting from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u59	Your question is clear. Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u60	That's a very interesting question. I am pleased that you are giving me the opportunity to respond to that. No, it's not a policy change at the CDA. For housing, we need about 1% of the area outside or the peripheral areas of towns and villages. Rijnenburg is an area that has been added to Utrecht in a reclassification procedure to act for housing development, for the expansion of Utrecht. It has been established for years that housing should eventually be built. Even the college and the council of Utrecht have said: in the long term we also want to build housing there; we want to put solar panels and windmills there for a while now, but in the long term we also think of housing. So there's actually no more of that discussion. The area has always been for housing. We do not like to see agricultural land disappear for housing, but you will have to consider it from time to time. The importance of a roof over your head so that someone doesn't have to sleep under a bridge counts heavily with us. So we have to weigh it up, and in some places you're gonna have to do that encore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u61	I find that interesting. You do give up agricultural land for housing. That's a sharp choice. It's a good thing you report it that way. I do wonder whether the farmers, who are already dealing with the nitrogen crisis and the pfas crisis, will be very happy about that. It's sharp that you make that choice. As far as Rijnenburg is concerned, I find it interesting. You say that there must now be housing, and that is being forced to do so. Utrecht sends out a very clear signal: we have several housing locations in the city, in the inner city area, so please give us the opportunity to look at how that is going and let's make it a sustainable energy landscape.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u62	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u63	In my opinion, therefore, the CDA also considers such a sustainable energy landscape, which is aimed at in Utrecht, important in the task we give these cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mrs. Van Esch, your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u65	I wonder if the CDA agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u66	I don't agree with what you're saying. You indicate that there are plenty of locations. When I look at the ABF projections, there's really a shortage of locations after 2024. We have said before that 130%, that planning capacity, must be there. But there isn't. That's just causing trouble again. So in that sense, that's not true. On the other hand, we think that with sustainability you can do it smarter. You can set up a house with solar panels on the roof: then you have both sustainable power generation and someone who has a roof over his head. So we'd rather see that knife cut on both sides instead of giving up sustainable space for one destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u67	With the Merwede Canal Zone and the Cartesius Triangle, I think there are locations. So this town is working on that construction plan. To force Utrecht to sit at the polder Rijnenburg, which offers opportunities to create something very sustainable right now, which is extremely desirable and for which there is no other location, is really too short in this respect and very short in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u68	I would like to respond briefly to that. We do not want to force it in the first instance, but we have asked the Minister to make a statement if necessary. In any case, the city council of Utrecht, I believe two weeks ago, adopted a motion which states: Rich, it is good if you want housing there, but then you also have an obligation to think about accessibility and infrastructure. So I see a bit of an opening on the horizon that perhaps there can be talked about acceleration. A motion adopted yesterday gave that order to the Minister, so I wonder what will come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u69	I'd like to ask a few questions about the landlord's tax. As far as I am concerned, the CDA, through Mr Ronnes, is always on the right side of the line on this subject. He has often expressed his concerns about it and also pleads with us for a Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment. Mr Ronnes also said: this landlord tax is running on its last legs; I liked that. Especially in view of the majority in the Chamber and the fact that half of that entire budget for the next ten years has already been requested by corporations within a month and a half, I would like to ask him whether it is not possible to create more space, to build more affordable rentals through that landlord's tax. Is that negotiable? The Christian Union has already opened the conversation, and Mr Ronnes actually said it in so many words. As far as he's concerned, is it possible to talk about making more room for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u70	You know me as someone for whom there is a great deal of discussion, but I do not see the point at the moment. The half-billion that is now being allocated, and there is another half-billion to be spent over the next five years. So we can start talking about money again very quickly, but we need to talk today about the problem that there are too few locations. Before we fall into the trap that we are going to take all these side steps to, for example, the landlord's tax, I would like to call for: let us, above all, discuss these location deficits. Because we're really helping citizens with more homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u71	We fully agree that there should be sufficient locations. In fact, the PvdA also thinks you should plan 130% of what you need. Because there are always plans that are disappointing. But I also see the problem of housing corporations that, when the landlord tax was not there, built more than 30,000 homes a year and now 15 000 a year. This also has to do with the land prices that are now sky high and the lack of financing of housing corporations by this landlord levy. I do not think there is any discussion about this either, either in science, or in the House Union, or in tenants, or in others. The PVV is also in favour, very left-wing is in favour, the CDA is actually in favour, at least according to your report, and the Christian Union agrees; it is very pronounced. So we can really do something there, if we dare a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mr. Nijboer, you hit the nail on the head. You say the land is getting more expensive. Why is that land getting more expensive? Because we choose the most expensive locations, inner city, and for a type of housing that you can wonder if there is so much demand for. So you can also look at the diversity of housing. And the fact that there are too few locations makes for the increase in the price. That's what drives up these house prices. I hope to make that point today, namely that having enough locations should be top priority number one in order to achieve sufficient housing. That is the point I would like to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u73	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u74	That point has been made loud and clear, but I don't think you'll get there without affordable rentals. The rental houses have waiting lists of more than ten years. We saw a minister who would have wanted to do more, but couldn't do it in the cabinet. So we also need to keep pressure on more affordable social housing. I hope that Mr Ronnes will continue to press for this, as he has done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u75	I'll be sure to. In the case of the landlord levy, there are also a number of other deductions outside the 1 billion, including the reduction in the landlord levy for the sustainability measures. So it's not like nothing's gonna happen. Quite a lot is happening already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u76	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr. Chairman. I come to the continuation of my speech, namely the National Real Estate Company. The CDA believes that the cabinet can do more than what was in the letter, such as a screening of the property of the National Real Estate Company where housing is possible, either permanently or temporarily. This can then be converted into concrete actions to realise housing. As far as we're concerned, the National Real Estate Company doesn't have to spend those lots. That takes time and energy. Move them directly to the municipalities. However, the municipalities must make a strong commitment to a rapid realization. I'd like to speed it up. Don't negotiate for 15 years, like Valkenburg. Our specific question is whether the Minister would like to participate in this. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to Rijnenburg. You know our preference to give priority to housing at the locations Rijnenburg Utrecht, Valkenburg Katwijk and Almere Pampus. In Katwijk, things seem to be moving now. That's good, and that's good. When can we expect a feedback to the Chamber from the conversation you are going to have with Utrecht to remove thresholds for housing at the Rijnenburg location and to speed up the earlier realization of the new district? The motion that was put to the vote yesterday was adopted. Mr. Chairman. Together with D66 we have suggested the idea to pull the location Almere Pampus forward. 25,000 homes: that's what makes the dike go crazy. We are very excited about that plan. What's the Minister's response? Does she want to work on this, too? By bringing forward the already existing housing plans, we can achieve affordable homes more quickly. Moreover, the new, faster connection between Amsterdam and Almere also offers economic opportunities for the hinterland in the future. If all the noses are in the right direction, it can happen quickly in our eyes. Then there's the corporations. The expectations expressed by the Minister in her letter on housing by corporations are high. How is the Minister going to give hands and feet to this? That's what I'm saying: corporations pay ten times as much tax as a foreign investor, and there's restraining regulations like market exploration. Especially the latter, the market exploration, creates poachiness and delay. How does the Minister view this? Can we expect concrete steps from the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to my closing part. Perhaps that is a bit along today's subject, but it is important: the regions and the shrinking and anticipating regions. We are talking in this debate mainly about the areas of the Netherlands where there are huge deficits, especially large cities. But we also know rural regions where there are shortages and shrinkage and anticipation areas. How does the government intend to ensure that these areas receive sufficient support from the Empire to accomplish the specific tasks that lie ahead? They can't be the child of the account. It would also be good to consider whether and, if so, how these areas can provide a solution to housing shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u78	You've run out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u79	We don't mean that as a drain. That was more or less in the newspaper this morning: send all the homeless to the shrinking areas. That's not what we're talking about. We really want a real perspective for the shrinkage and anticipation regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the third speaker from the Chamber, Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u81	October 2017. Stef Blok was interviewed at the end of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. The headline in the newspaper was: "I'm the first VVD man to make an entire ministry disappear!" Stef Blok saw it as his greatest political achievement: the lifting of the Ministry for Living. As far as Blok is concerned, this should have been done by 1965. The market would fix it. And now, two years later, we're in a deep housing crisis. We're not gonna solve that housing crisis with some Band-Aids, especially not the Band-Aids the Cabinet is proposing. There is a fundamental problem: no ministry of living and a blind faith in the market. Two weeks ago we got a very painful insight into the blind faith in the market that the cabinet still has despite the housing ruins. In answers to SP's parliamentary questions about the fact that rooms of 8 m2 were asked for €700, the Minister said, and I quote: "I expect landlords not to take full advantage of the great scarcity in cities with a tense housing market." For the time being, the cabinet does not want to intervene in towering rents, because it still believes in the goodness of the market. Mr. Chairman. That is at the heart of the problem: not a Ministry of Living or VROM, but a blind faith in the market. The housing crisis is now so deep that we can't solve it with some Band-Aids. It has to be fundamentally different. The Empire must again take responsibility for housing, as our Constitution states. For this, the re-establishment of a Ministry of Housing or VROM working on a delta plan against the housing crisis is indispensable. Does the cabinet agree with me? And what does the government think of the idea of setting up a committee like the Borstlap Committee for housing and carrying out a scientific analysis of the system? Mr. Chairman. The housing crisis is deep and affects many, but for the time being the sense of urgency seems to be lacking in the cabinet. Even coalition parties invited Prime Minister Mark Rutte to this debate, but he is not coming, while living should now be at the top of the agenda. I would like to mention a few facts. There are now 100,000 social rentals less than five years ago. One in five tenants pays an irresponsible rent. The number of homeless people has more than doubled in ten years of Rutte. Older people have to live at home longer. The ggz has been cut down hard. Municipalities don't have any money left to guide people. The worst neighbourhoods in the Netherlands are getting worse. And in total, there's a shortage of 300,000 homes. That's as many properties as there are in a city as Rotterdam. If we continue along the path of this cabinet, we will still have 200,000 homes in 2030. You can't use the word "clusterfuck" in the Chamber, but that's what it is: a giant crisis that you don't fight with patches and beautiful words. A delta plan against the housing crisis is essential, as is a fund to pay for the crisis approach. Does the Cabinet agree with that? We have to build now, but the right thing to do. Precisely for rent and purchase homes for people with low and average income, the biggest shortage is. Does the cabinet agree with me? The housing crisis is not only about quantity, but also about quality. One in four Dutch children grows up in an unhealthy home. In many regions of the Netherlands more than 30% of the social housing has mold. Dramatic is the situation at Vestia. More than 700 complaints have already been received by the SP after its request for a black book for Vestia tenants. These tenants give Vestia an average of 4: from mold and late maintenance to a year no working heating. But every year we rent up and down. Rightfully, tenants in the Tweebos neighbourhood in Rotterdam recently won a lawsuit against Vestia's demolition plans. It's time for all Vestia tenants to return to their future. Does the Minister agree with me that action should now be taken, that we should speed up the process of cutting up Vestia, dealing with late maintenance and making rent normal? Mr. Chairman. The housing crisis in which we have passed ten years of Rutte is becoming young and old. Young people can buy harder and harder because houses are being hijacked by investors. The rent in the free sector is priceless and for social rent you are waiting for years, if you can get in. The nursing homes are closed, which means that elderly people have to stay at home, even if they do not want or can do so anymore. A suitable elderly home is often not to be found or not to be paid. 65,000 elderly people prefer to live in a nursing home. We make a proposal to the cabinet: provide new care homes and care for health care neighbourhoods in the neighborhood. Then we give the elderly who want it a good place and homes are released. I'd like a response from this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear that the coalition parties also want to go further than the cabinet and the landlord levy would like to limit further. I hope it comes to that, too. Mr Koerhuis is eagerly shaking no. But there is now a majority in this Chamber to stop that retarded landlord tax, Mr. Koerhuis. Finally, Mr President. This housing crisis is not a natural disaster, but the result of Rutte's ten years of failing housing policy. It is high time for a new Ministry of Housing and for a delta plan against the housing crisis. But we can't wait until this cabinet period is over. Take it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you. Then we go on to the fourth speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone in his area knows someone, a whole club of people, who can't get a house, can't find a house, is just divorced and moves back in with parents, sometimes with child and all. It's a big, dull mess if you don't have a place to live right now and you're looking for one. This applies if you are looking for a rental house that is a bit affordable; you can be on a waiting list for ten or fifteen years for a social rental house. But that also applies if you want to intervene as a buyer. From a couple, one of them might be able to look in an hour. Then you're standing around with 40 men, and you're allowed to make a financially irresponsible offer the same night, without conditions, and you better hope it ends well. There's really a housing crisis going on. There are hundreds of thousands of houses too few. The cabinet does say that the crisis is... it sent another letter yesterday with all the raging texts, with that it is bad anyway... but it stands there and looks at it. Three of the four cabinet years have been lost. Nothing's going to be done. That is the essence of my speech. If you see that the Constitution, which is about sufficient housing for everyone, is tarnished, then you have to act as a government, then you have to take action, you have to do something and not just talk, produce reports and investigate. Mr. Chairman. This has to be done in several areas. More needs to be built. Everyone in the Chamber agrees on that. But you have to make that possible, including financially. This year, the cabinet came with a cloth for bleeding for the first time: ten times 100 million. The landlord's tax was already up at 130 million this year. So, on balance, they have to pay 30 million more tax, which means less social housing can be built than foreseen. And within a month and a half it's been overwritten five times. That shows how little it is. So it's far too little. Does the Minister recognize that? Is she willing to make much more available?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr Nijboer urged the cabinet to go ahead and do something. Yesterday, a motion was put to the vote saying: go ahead with a location like Rijnenburg. That was actually the message from the motion. You voted against it. How can you tell the cabinet to do something when you do not vote in favour of motions calling for locations where, for example, 25,000 homes can be built?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u85	There were two motions. The coalition was a bit divided. One said: you must insist on it, say it exactly. The other one said, "You have to put pressure on it." We supported one of them, that of D66. We didn't support yours, because we found it a little on the clumsy side. But I share with you that the cabinet must intervene and ensure that there are sufficient locations. I'm not sharing with you that you can do that without money. I think that the cabinet should put a huge pot of money next to it to bring the municipalities there as well. I don't believe that if you say as a cabinet "you have to build there," there will be houses right away. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u86	The problem is that there are no locations because too long there are no choices being made. Now there was finally a choice to pull the realization of a location forward and then the PvdA said: no, still choose the option to talk to each other. That's what I'm here for. But then why not "if necessary" so it was literally there that dared to point out and move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u87	In the end, I dare, but I do think that you should offer municipalities something, and I think that the cabinet is just talking. That's my problem. Mr. Chairman. I think that the budgets that are now being made available for the housing problem in the Netherlands are far too low. This applies to the landlord's tax, which you can build affordable social housing for, and as far as the PvdA is concerned, not only for the people with the lowest incomes but also for the middle groups, such as police officers or teachers. We had a hearing here in the Chamber, Miss Emma, who might leave Amsterdam and can't even be a teacher there, when she loves to do so. She now lives with her sister and is going to be 30 soon and wants something for herself, but that just can't happen there. So you also have to build those homes for the middle groups and that can't be for free. If you want to keep that affordable, even in the cities, you just have to add state money. Mr. Chairman. This applies not only to the West, but to the whole of the Netherlands. That is why I do not think it is a good choice to focus the other billion of ECUs four times 250 million on the busiest cities. Also in medium-sized cities in the Netherlands, such as Leeuwarden, Assen, Breda and Zwolle, people like to live. In fact, more than half of the Netherlands does not live in the busiest cities. And the cabinet is not looking at that at all, apart from the amount that is too low. Is the Cabinet prepared to make programmes for this and to make available budgets for that? It seems as if the housing shortage only plays in Amsterdam, The Hague and Utrecht, but nothing is less true. There are only a few regions in the Netherlands where you can still look at a house and make an offer, or where you don't have a huge waiting list for a social rental house. That's one side of what I think should happen. Money must be added and then hard agreements must be made so that these houses can be built. The other side is that existing houses also need to be regulated. For the new houses are not there directly; everyone will recognize that. You can see investors taking advantage of people's vulnerable position. A tenant can't go anywhere. I have put forward a proposal here to limit rent increases by law in the private sector as well. We are now simply taking advantage of the vulnerable position of people, and we should not allow that to happen. I am also very much in favour of this year's legislation, but I think it is important in the long term that we increase rent protection to a much higher level, to €1,000 or €1,200. Because we can all pretend that you can rent apartments outside the social rental sector for €800 or €900, but they are almost impossible to get. And the new starters, who have studied neatly and just looking for a house, are currently the new working poor. They pay €1,000 or €1,100 net rent per month and the health insurance is added. They can't go anywhere. They can still do their shopping a little bit and that's it. That is not an idea of how we want and can live together in society, is it? The cabinet is conducting an investigation into this, as well as an investigation into the increased burden on investors and the zero rate for starters, but that has not yet been introduced, while the cabinet is almost out of control. How can that be if the cabinet itself thinks there's a housing crisis? Then there is my third and final point, Mr President. I am very concerned about the housing in the mixed neighbourhoods, which is so characteristic of the Netherlands. I mean, we all live in a neighborhood, in a city, in a neighborhood or in a village. There are now more and more disadvantaged areas at risk, banlieues as you wish. What is the government going to do to prevent this, and also to prevent homelessness from increasing so far? I saw Secretary of State Blokhuis be genuinely touched by this, but it is a good thing that it is not such a cold winter, because I see very little happening about it. There's still 40,000 people sleeping on the street. Mr. Chairman. According to the PvdA's belief, more government and state intervention are needed, and this also justifies a Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment. Together with the CDA, we will also submit it to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u88	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You'd almost think we're in a serious crisis. The cabinet is arguing with the teachers, there are major problems in the care, the farmers are revolting for the umpteenth time, resulting in a huge effort by the police, and we have no capacity for enforcement. In short, if you didn't know better, you'd think we were in a very difficult crisis. But the opposite is true. We're in the middle of a boom. There is enough money and yet this cabinet fails to solve the problems. Mr. Chairman. As far as housing is concerned, this cabinet is really for pampus: high house prices, high mortgages and high rents for rooms and homes. If you rely on the free rental sector, the offer is dramatically low. You can't pay the rent. There are long waiting lists for social housing. Students stay at home massively and if they find a home, they'll be exploited. And if you haven't had all that, then we also come to the conclusion that 92% of the brokers discriminate, at least if you're called Fatima or Mohammed, says De Groene Amsterdammer. Mr. Chairman. Captain Ollongren must have left the ship that crashed for pampus. We wish her well. But around it, the provinces, the municipalities, the corporations, the developers, the contractors and the brokers formed a kind of armada of rowing boats that act out of their own interest and sometimes row against each other. What will the new skipper Van Veldhoven do at the stalled housing market? Where are the actions? Mr. Chairman. We read in the numerous letters, surveys, analyses and reports the same observations as a year ago and two years ago. The cabinet tries to minimise its responsibility with fine policy talks and pointing to other parties. The Rutte I and II Cabinets have of course made a major contribution to the housing shortage, because it was those cabinets that put us up with the landlord levy and the market test. They didn't do anything about the ATAD. Now the production of social housing, which used to be 40,000 homes, is under enormous pressure. That number isn't gonna be reached by a long shot. Mr. Chairman. One colleague said: tackling scarcity by redistributing poverty is not working. The answer should eventually lie in a much larger construction production at more locations. How's this cabinet gonna fix that? A tip from the fraction of DENK: break the green border. It is absurd that in one of the most densely populated countries in the world we can build up 7% of the land surface. At 93%, there is simply no de facto construction. Mr. Chairman. We have already pointed it out: central direction is needed. If the minister does not succeed, then preferably in the housing 2.0. We saw that between 1995 and 2005. Over the last 20 years, we have seen the results of decentralised spatial planning. The government must take more direction and responsibility, at least until the housing shortage is resolved. Why not set tough targets on the number of homes to be built per province where there is also a need? If those targets are met by provinces, you have to reward them. More apartment, more reward. Provinces and municipalities that build more than their targets, you could reward extra. In this context, we should also look at a right of designation for ministers to whistle back provinces and municipalities that are not contributing enough or even actively destroying homes, as the municipality of Rotterdam does in the Tweebosbuurt. There 530 homes are demolished to build 360 new ones, for a much higher rent in a higher segment and for another target group. On balance, this leads to a reduction in housing stock by 170 units. That's absurd in times of housing shortage. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to housing corporations that simply privatise homes and thus withdraw from the social housing stock. This should not be allowed if the social rental stock is not supplemented by new construction in the region with a housing shortage. The housing corporations were independent around 1995 and the subsidy relationship with the government was cut loose. From that moment on they became foundations without ownership and without central control. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this too. Mr. Chairman. Let the private investor also pay fairly. In the rental market, private investors often act as a jammer for start-ups and tenants. They'll be the victims of that. Perhaps a 15% transfer tax instead of the usual 2% above the first house is a good start. The proceeds can be used for a purchase subsidy for starters. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there is this disruptive market test, which is a typical example of passed policy when Minister Blok was still Minister for Housing. Now it's a liability of the housing corporations. They're screaming: we want to get rid of it! Especially the middle rent has fallen between shore and ship. Only a few hundred apartments are realized in the middle rental. There are too few parties who want to realize middle-rent projects, so please throw them overboard. Also away with the Vpb in the context of the ATAD! The same applies to those oppressive income limits, which reduce the room for manoeuvre for corporations. Mr. Chairman. We talked about the landlord's tax. That was a crisis measure in 2012, when there was a 30 billion deficit. I can't believe we still have it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a comment on housing discrimination. That was also on the agenda. If, after all the opposition from the government, you think you've had everything, you'll also find discriminatory real estate agents on your way. How many of these brokers have been disbarred from NVM and VBO? Because that was the thrust of a motion that I had tabled and which was almost adopted in Parliament. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u90	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u91	Mr. Chairman. A good and affordable home is important for everyone, because it offers security. Whether you buy or rent, it's the place you come home after a day of hard work. There are start-ups, middle-incomes and seniors who have difficulty getting their hands on solid land, for example because they can't find a good and affordable home. That's because there's a housing shortage in our country, a shortage of nearly 300,000 homes. To solve the housing shortage, we need to do several things. We're gonna have to build big. The Empire has to take control where it has to be. And we need to speed up procedures where we can. We also need to start working on flex homes, recreational homes and transformations in the short term. Mr. Chairman. First of all, we have to build, build, build. I keep saying it. I'm glad everyone seems to realize this by now. It's been different. In the crisis, new building production fell sharply. Municipalities were afraid of emptiness and heavy depreciation on their land positions. In the meantime, the realization that there has to be built is fortunately there. But that awareness alone is not enough. For example, we can see that there are still provinces and municipalities that impose additional requirements such as inner city building percentages, social housing rates and sustainability. With the current housing shortage, that simply cannot be explained. For municipalities and provinces, building must be at the forefront. That is why we need to give builders the space and not impose additional requirements, so that they can do exactly what is needed: build! Mr. Chairman. As I said, I've been calling for more to be built for a while. But in the opinion of the VVD, that is still too little. That is why the VVD believes that the minister should take more direction. Can the Minister put more pressure on provinces? Can it set a construction target in addition to the 130% plan objective? If provinces fail to meet the planning and construction objectives, is the Minister prepared to see if and how provinces can be reduced on the Province Fund? The VVD believes that we should not only put more pressure on the provinces, but also on the municipalities that are building too little, for example by coming up with an indication or an integration plan. This is now on the table for the first time for former Valkenburg Air Force Camp near Katwijk. That's a big housing site that was talked about for 15 years. The Minister intervened there at the request of VVD, D66 and CDA. Katwijk will soon build 5,000 homes. A clue or a fit is no longer necessary, but was a serious option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u92	There is a question from Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u93	That brings me to a question to the VVD. Now the suggestion is clearly made that the VVD is also in favour of an integration or an indication when it appears that there is no progress. We have been talking about Rijnenburg for a long time. Yesterday, you chose not to follow the route of a clue. That's your own consideration. At what point does the VVD say that we really should be pointing out? Where's the dividing line?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u94	Together, we have often said that a clue as a last option is always on the table. Why the VVD chose yesterday not to support the CDA motion, but to come up with a motion together with D66, is because it's quite something, putting a clue on the table. We've done that for Valkenburg now. Let's not do two in one week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u95	That's not really an answer to my question. I ask: what is the time when there should be a clue? By the way, the motion says "if necessary a clue." What is the time when you think the Minister should designate a location, for example Rijnenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u96	I mention the example of Valkenburg, where there was talk for 15 years and it didn't go on. That seems to me to be a very good example of putting such a clue on the table. And what do we see? That worked in Valkenburg and Katwijk is now building.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u97	It is clear, therefore, that if there are 15 years of talking about Rijnenburg, then it can be designated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u98	Now you're pulling it out of context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u99	I think it's Mrs. Van Esch's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u100	That sounds like an idea we can still think about, but it's only fifteen years before Rijnenburg talks. I'm going back to Katwijk anyway. You think we should force the minister a little bit. You have done this especially now by waving a motion. One of the problems at Katwijk was that as a government we were pushing up the land price and wanted a lot of money for it. I wonder what the VVD thinks of that policy. In Katwijk 55% of homes for the expensive sector are now being built. What do you think of that? You started your plea with "we have to build for police officers and for social housing," but 55% goes to expensive homes in Katwijk. This is partly because of our own national policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u101	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u102	What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u103	I actually heard two questions and I wanted to respond to Rijnenburg, which the CDA is laughing at in those 15 years. I don't know exactly when it went from Nieuwegein to Utrecht, but that could just be more than 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u104	We are not going to settle this discussion, but you have received a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u105	I had a second question from the Animal Party about Katwijk and if I am okay with what happened there. Partly on the initiative of the VVD, the Minister intervened and therefore more than 5,000 houses are being built there. So I really like what happened there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u106	That sounds nice, but that wasn't my question. My question was specifically about which homes are being built there and that as a government we have played a role in determining the type of housing that is being built there. We are talking here about the fact that we miss a lot of homes for senior citizens and in the social housing market. Then you make a huge plea that we have to build in Katwijk, but in the meantime we as the Empire are responsible for the fact that we have managed to push the land there in ridiculous prices and that a lot of houses are then built for a lot of rich people. I am curious to see what he thinks about this and to what extent we should not be at the root of the problem of land prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u107	I share that view. Anyone who comes to a debate more often also knows that the VVD believes that too few senior homes are being built. We also want more attention to be paid to this. We have asked the Minister several times. Anyone who comes to debates more often also knows that when you look at the Dutch housing market, you see no lack of social housing. If you take the entire rental market, which includes 41% of the housing market, of that 41% is 35% social, 5% middle and 1% expensive rent. If the Party for the Animals pleads for more social housing, that is unnecessary. The shortage on the rental market in the Netherlands is mainly among the middle rental homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u108	Short scraping point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u109	In my opinion, the VVD does not continue to respond to my view that as a government we are responsible for the raising of land and that we have been working on this in Katwijk. So my final word is: I can't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u110	Yes, I do. Your question is: don't you think there are too few social rentals in Katwijk? My answer is, no, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u111	Ten years of Rutte and the housing crisis is only getting bigger and not smaller. Are you still so proud of that? It seems to me that, even during this debate, other coalition parties are starting to get a little embarrassed. Are you still proud of this ideological project: the destruction of housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u112	I welcome the steps the cabinet is taking. I welcome the steps the coalition is taking. It may be more, but we're also gonna do more. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u113	That's a laconic answer. But you are responsible for a massive housing crisis. I hear Mr Koerhuis say that he is pleased with the steps taken by the coalition. One of the steps the coalition parties just took was to question the landlord levy. I hear Mr Ronnes say: he's on his last legs, we'll put him on the table at the cabinet formation. I can hear Mrs Dik-Faber say: that can be a lot less, preferably already. How do you feel about that? Are we having a cabinet crisis or are you going to solve the housing crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u114	The SP blames the VVD celebrity. With all due respect, that's out of the question. If there is one party that wants to solve the housing shortage and doesn't want to linger in all kinds of talk about the landlord tax, then it is the VVD. So I'm absolutely not reacting laconically. I take the housing shortage very seriously. I propose structuralally, over and over again, to solve the housing shortage and I do not linger in all kinds of talk about the landlord tax. Unfortunately, the SP is asking questions about the landlord's tax. We all know that corporations make 18 billion profits a year, of which 4 billion operating profits. To speak of a EUR 2 billion reduction so that they will make 6 billion profits, I have often said that it is not the SP I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u115	It is a pity, not for me, but for Mr Koerhuis, that there is a majority to stop the ideological project of the dismantling of the social rental sector, as the VVD has been able to carry out for years. At least that's nice. I would rather not wait for that, but unfortunately it seems that it will have to. And then my final word. Mr Blok was proud of it: the entire Ministry of Housing was abolished. I hope that Mr Koerhuis is not proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u116	You may still respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u117	I think the SP sees things that aren't there. Paying taxes isn't fun for anyone. The SP hopes for majorities to give large corporations nearly 2 billion relief. But what corporations don't pay for taxes, someone else will have to pay. So it's not that easy. I know it's easy for the Socialist Party, because it believes in free money. But there's no free money. So what corporations don't pay for taxes, someone else has to pay. It's not that easy. So if you ask the VVD to provide a corporation sector, which makes 4 billion operating profits and does not meet its building objectives, to reduce 2 billion taxes and therefore to make 6 billion profits, and to have someone else pay 2 billion taxes, the answer is no, rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u118	It is always difficult to keep up with the statements made by Mr Koerhuis. I want to come back to the clue. It is not entirely known to me on the basis of which Mr Koerhuis says he did not support it. The motion was clear: if you don't get out, that clue will come. I know Mr. Koerhuis as a tough guy who stands for something, but it looks like he got a muzzle from the VVD. Why are you different than usual?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u119	We put the lead on the table for Valkenburg. That has been a serious step. That's the same answer I gave to the CDA. It is really not taken lightly on the side of provinces and municipalities. Making such a serious step twice in a week is a big deal to me. You also know that a clue as a last option is always on the table. You know that, too. I've said that several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u120	I really care if you give me two, three or five. We're having a serious crisis here. We're short 350,000 homes. We have a serious party filing motions. You're standing by to deal with that. You say I come up with a proposal every week. Now there's something that works, and then you come, I say, through you, Chairman, with a bullshit reasoning: not two a week. If it's necessary, we'll do ten. We've got people here waiting 15 years for a social rental. We have people here who have been waiting for five years and paying €1,500 rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u121	You're asking the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u122	My question is: are you really going to help solve that problem by putting it down in such a way that, if the outcome of the negotiations does not result... No, wait a minute, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u123	You're going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u124	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u125	I hear questions and all points are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u126	I would like you to conclude the question in one sentence and then give the floor to Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u127	My question to Mr Koerhuis is: how can he insist that he wants to solve the problem and restrict himself by saying that he can only attack this minister once and not too often? I just saw it happen...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u128	I said one sentence and then it's one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u129	I hear a lot of things. I'm just gonna get one out. DENK is coming back with his social rentals. The Minister himself has indicated that there are 110,000 people waiting for a social housing unit and that we have 240,000 crooked residents in it. You're talking about social housing. Apparently, you want those properties in Rijnenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u130	Through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u131	The DENK party apparently wants to build social housing in Rijnenberg. We do not need them, because we already have a lot of them in the Netherlands. If you want to create space there, you have to come up with an approach for crooked people. That is exactly what this cabinet, on the initiative of the coalition, is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u132	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u133	Good point. Well, these housing corporations say, okay... Let me go with Mr Koerhuis: for the time being enough social housing. Thank you for clapping. Well, until recently, before the market test, about 2,500 to 3,000 homes were built. Now that's a couple hundred. That market test doesn't make any sense. That's what they say: we want to stop. That's the rent between €700 and €1,000. Are you prepared to abolish that market test?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u134	Now we're here. This makes more sense. The DENK party wants to build middle-rental houses on Rijnenburg. I've made proposals with the CDA before. Indeed, the term may not be very good: 4 billion in cash on the shelf with which they want to build some 10 billion in middle rental homes. I would very much like that to be done. I also read that the Minister is going to make national performance agreements with corporations. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to make performance agreements about that. You have a question about the market test. That is exactly why we are going to simplify this cabinet period. That's just what our coalition agreement says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u135	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u136	Mr Koerhuis really says a lot and if you let that settle a little bit, there is actually only one conclusion: the VVD is not the beginning of a solution, but the problem. There's a stuttering Courhouse here that says a lot. I'll pick one out. He said that there is no shortage of social housing. He really said it. I spoke to Aedes recently, the corporation association.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u137	Lobby organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u138	They just say, Mr. Koerhuis, there are 80,000 social rentals short. There are people who can easily wait ten years on a waiting list. What does Mr Koerhuis say to all these people? "Aedes is just a lobby organization; we shouldn't listen to that"? What do you say to all those people who can't get a place to live? "Have a good time"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u139	First of all, I am in my stomach with what Mr Kops called me: a stunning Courhouse. I do not think that is entirely appropriate in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u140	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u141	If you can't stand that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u142	I don't like talking to each other like that either. I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis to answer your question in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u143	Thank you. Mr Kops is talking about 80,000 people. I think I just said there's 110,000 people on a waiting list. That's very poignant, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u144	It's about housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u145	Yeah, that's what we're looking for 110,000 homes for. That's very poignant, too. The cabinet therefore also comes with the approach of crooked residents, so that there is a flow and we ideally free 240,000 social rental homes. That is a good step to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u146	Is the only thing Mr Koerhuis can think of: an approach to skews?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u147	No, of course it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u148	That's shifting the problem. You are only making things worse, because you are forcing people into expensive rents in the free sector. First of all, those homes aren't even there, and if they're already there, people really can't afford that. What the hell are you doing to people, Mr. Koerhuis? Why don't you come up with a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u149	Now it sounds a bit like the Socialist Party. You're pretending to be the free sector...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u150	We stand up for the people, Mr. Koerhuis. You should do that sometime. That's what I'm talking about by "stunting."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u151	We're not gonna get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u152	The PVV stands up for corporations. That's what they're doing. The PVV pretends social rentals are free. They're not free. If you are building social housing in a project, we would encourage you to take a look at construction projects. As a result, the corporations can charge a low rent. You pretend that the land discount is free, but that has to be paid by the buyers who buy the properties within that project. It's not free. You're acting like you are. I would say: PVV, join the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u153	Mr Kops, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u154	It's called standing up for the people in the country. Mr Koerhuis of the VVD may not understand that. All those people, those ordinary people, those hardworking people, want to live in an affordable home, Mr. Koerhuis. Thanks to your cabinet, they only go up. So don't talk about "affordable rentals" and "nothing is free." You're just gonna let people down like hell. That's the problem, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u155	I'd love to go through me. I'd love to go through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u156	So we have heard that talk from Mr Koerhuis for three years. You are not at the beginning of the solution, but you have only made it worse. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u157	You'll go right back to "you." I'm not ashamed. You were talking about "you" again. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Diks. Sorry, I mean Mrs. Dik-Faber. I was just a little bit of a provos, because suddenly I was being addressed again. Excuse me, Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u158	I hear a lot of tough language from Mr Koerhuis. We also know his mantra: building, building, building. I see I'm getting a thumb. Today I received an e-mail from Robert. Robert writes: too little is being built, indeed, but as a starter you are now mainly the victim of investors. My question to Mr Koerhuis is: building, building, building can only be half of the story. Surely we need many more measures to help start-ups get a home? I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u159	We are having a debate today on the housing shortage. What do those starters need? Those are apartments. So we have to build houses for that. I am also always the first to say that too little is being built especially for start-ups, middle-incomes and seniors. That's what you see mostly shortages for. So I also think that we should build mainly for start-ups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u160	It is of course very nice to build for starters. This is an e-mail from a starter. What do we tell this starter? This e-mail isn't the only one. I get emails from people every week, almost daily, who say: I would like to start on the housing market, but building is not the problem, even though there are indeed few houses built, but investors are the problem, because I have to bid against that. He writes: "I also want to buy a house. I want to build my ability." Those are the words that a liberal, like Mr Koerhuis, should sound warm to the ears. "I want to build power, but I can't. I'm at the mercy of middle-rent, but there aren't any of those apartments either. I want to buy a house. Make sure that self-inhabitation becomes a reality." Is Mr Koerhuis prepared now to participate generously in a duty of self-inhabitation and to shoulder the burden of this together, so that we can now just settle this, for Robert and for all the others?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u161	That sounds nice. We have had a debate on this before. Then Mrs. Dik-Faber stood here and I there. It sounds nice: the investor. But in practice, we know that 80% of private rentals are owned by someone who owns one house. Another 10% is in the hands of someone who owns two homes. That's not Mrs. Dik-Faber's creepy big investor. These are entrepreneurs who do not receive interest on the bank, who are not allowed to save in a pension fund and who have their pension provision in that first or second home that they do in the rental. That other big group of investors... We're talking about the private rentals, but you also have rentals of large pension funds. That is what we discussed in that debate. I remember Mr Ronnes coming forward in that same debate, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u162	Can you give a more concrete answer rather than calling all the debates?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u163	Another large group of investors in the housing market are corporations. They ultimately own 30% of our housing market. So that big angry investor is in practice someone who has one or two homes as pension provision in the rental, a pension fund or a corporation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mrs Dik-Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u165	It's clear what the VVD stands for. She is not on the side of the starter on the housing market who begs for a self-inhabitation obligation. The entire Chamber has ruled on this, except for the VVD. I find that extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u166	I'm so in front of that starter. That starter was helped with an extra house. This is in fact the discussion the CDA had with the Labour Party. You can talk a long time about moving houses again and again, but more homes are needed. I'd like to talk about that. Today's debate is also about housing shortages. That's the best we can do for starters, but also for middle incomes and seniors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u167	We already know that as left-wing parties we are not very enthusiastic about the sacred faith in the market of the VVD and Mr Koerhuis. It is now also clear that the PVV does not see anything in it. It has become quite clear, in my opinion, from the contribution of Mr Ronnes of the CDA and the interruption of Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union, that this is now being considered quite differently within the coalition. My question to Mr Koerhuis is very simple: does Mr Koerhuis feel that he is increasingly alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u168	GroenLinks expires in container terms. I'd just like to talk about how we can build more in this country and how we can give builders more space, because that's how you're going to build more. Eventually, the minister has no cranes and shovels. That's what builders have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u169	Fascinating that I fall into container terms when I ask a very simple question to which Mr Koerhuis does not answer. Does Mr Koerhuis have the impression that he is increasingly alone? And I will add a second question to that: does Mr Koerhuis perhaps find that a bit annoying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u170	I don't feel like I'm alone at all. Mr Ronnes and I are called the tandem, so I feel absolutely not alone. So no! I don't feel alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u171	A short final word to enhance this joy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u172	It's a short word. I very much wonder if Mr Ronnes feels part of your tandem. What also strikes me is that you are more and more alone in your party. Indeed, the chairman of the VNG Commission, Boudewijn Revis, is in favour of inner city building and restricting free sector rental. So my final question is whether we will soon be able to hear some other VVD-sound in the area of living. I think we'd all be very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u173	GroenLinks brings in the alderman of the VVD in The Hague. I think GroenLinks knows the situation in The Hague. That municipality has grown quite well up to the municipal boundaries, so it can only build in the inner city. So you can't blame the man for pleading for inner city building. I stand before the whole of the Netherlands and, yes, quite honestly: if we have to build a million houses, Mr Ronnes says that we often do so where it can be urban, but where it has to be outlying. And often it will indeed have to be outlying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u174	I understand you wanted to respond to the question of whether you were a tandem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u175	That may be so, but I regularly sit on another tandem, which just bikes another road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u176	That answer has been given again, and then you will be a little alone. Okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u177	If I may respond to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u178	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u179	You always have different tandems. When it comes to building safety, I am indeed on the tandem with Mrs. Beckerman and not with Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u180	Look! In a moment we are also talking about the baking bike, but first we are going to listen to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u181	It's an ugly duo. It does show how divided the coalition is in housing. That's not so bad either, because there's a huge ideological discussion underneath. I find it annoying that the VVD is the largest party and also puts such a stamp on it, but the result is total standstill. Mr Koerhuis shouts very loudly "building, building, building," but very little or nothing happens. Does Mr Koerhuis not feel responsible for the housing shortage, which is getting worse and worse these days, because he cannot reach an agreement and only argue with the coalition in all areas? We see one coalition party interrupting after another: what a delusion you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u182	I'm really worried about the housing shortage. That's what I'm really worried about. I have not finished my speech yet, but I do not recognize at all what the Labour Party says about total standstill. The Minister will say it too, but we build about 70,000 a year. On top of that, we realize about 10,000 transformations. On top of that, the Minister has taken over the coalition's ambition to realize 15,000 flex houses. From the coalition. If you'll just wait and see: together with D66, I'll make the proposal for recreational homes. We'll do it together in a minute. Of course, we're four different parties with different views, but we're taking steps as a coalition. The image of total standstill is far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u183	Okay, Mr. Nijboer is going to talk to you through me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u184	You're absolutely right that I have to do that through you. I think there is Chamberwide, but it may be that the VVD feels differently, a huge concern about housing, about whether people can afford a house, or start-ups can find a house, whether there are enough properties for sale, but also whether there are affordable rentals, about that there are simply many and far too few homes and about that the ambitions of the cabinet are far too limited. If that is not the case and Mr Koerhuis says 'we are actually doing very well and I mention a list', then we also have the problem that the VVD does not recognise at all that 1 million houses are too few and that far too little is being done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u185	I think I was the first in this Chamber to say that we need to build 1 million houses, the very first one here. But you take my words out of context. I have said: Your image of total standstill, as if no dwelling was built, I cast far from myself. I think good steps are being taken. But I also say, and I hope I will say this with you and with everyone, including the Minister, that we need to take further steps, of course. I'm sorry about the housing shortage. Again, I was the first in the Chamber to say that we should build 1 million houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u186	If we continue with this cabinet policy, those 1 million houses will not be there by 2050. That is my problem and I appeal to the VVD as the largest coalition party. Mr Koerhuis has the most extreme position of the entire Chamber here, even more extreme than any other party. He holds the others hostage to reach agreement, to make money for it, to take measures and to stand up for anyone in the Netherlands who does not yet have a home. I blame Mr Koerhuis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u187	If I'm already taking an extreme position, it's that we need to build more. We build about 70,000 homes a year. 10,000 transformations. This year if it's up to us 15,000 flex houses added. Recreational homes as soon as possible. Those are numbers, I say to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u188	Please continue with your speech. You're not even halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u189	That was the discussion that started about Valkenburg. We need to move on to the Zuidplaspolder now. That's also a big housing site that's been talked about a long time. I thank the Minister for her letter. I ask her if she can also give a technical briefing on the Zuidplaspolder, as she did on Valkenburg. The VVD would like to keep a finger on the wrist there. Mr President, then Flevoland. In Flevoland there is space for 100,000 additional homes, in Pampus, Warande, Oosterwold and around Dronten. We also need to build for start-ups, middle-income people and seniors, for example. How does the Minister feel about that? Does the Minister agree with the VVD that 100,000 additional homes are really making progress to solve the housing shortage? Of course we also look at the VVD outside the Randstad and Flevoland. That is why I am curious to see what is going on with the East living agreement and specifically the Arnhem-Nijmegen living deal that should follow from it. Can the Minister comment on this? How's the North-Holland-North living deal coming along? There too, we must build quickly, specifically in the region of Alkmaar and West Friesland. Mr. Chairman. Faster procedures are also needed to build faster. Thanks to a VVD/CDA motion, the Crisis and Recovery Act has been modified. This makes it possible to make faster use of instruments in the Environment Act that can speed up housing. This often results in a six-month acceleration. I therefore call on the municipalities to make use of this. In addition, I understand that municipalities that want to place flex houses also want to use the Crisis and Recovery Act. That's good. But I also understand that municipalities will have to use an extensive procedure of 26 weeks and not the regular procedure of 8 weeks for large flex housing projects of 1,000 to 2,000 homes. Can the Minister explain exactly what this is about? Older church on the Amstel and Zoetermeer, I understand, run into these problems. Building will solve the problem in the medium term, but we will also have to solve the problem in the short term. This can be done by allowing municipalities to rapidly permit permanent habitation of recreational homes. As a VVD, we are in favour of this. The existing system of issuing personal permits for persons who lived in a recreational home before 2003 is no longer up-to-date. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she shares the view that in the short term this will address the housing shortage and whether she is prepared to follow the plan submitted by the VVD together with D66 to update the scheme and issue object-related permits for recreational homes built before 2019. The ambition is to place 15,000 flex houses this year. Can the Minister state what's going on with that? Yesterday was in the news that corporations want to work with flex houses, but that municipalities do not make enough locations available. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that municipalities make enough locations available? Finally, we must continue with transformations. In 2018, 13,000 homes were realized through transformations of existing buildings. Can the Minister state what was going on in 2019 and what is going on with it this year? Mr. Chairman. You will hear: a lot has been done and we still have a lot to do. I'm confident this will work. Together with provinces, municipalities, corporations and builders, it must be possible to solve the housing shortage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u190	Mr Kops had another question for you, I think at the recreational homes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u191	Mr Koerhuis says that municipalities should be given the opportunity to allow permanent residence on holiday parks. Interestingly, we have suggested this before. Even last week we voted on this in the Chamber, on a motion from the PVV, which I believe is exactly what Mr Koerhuis is calling for, namely to allow municipalities to allow permanent residence on holiday parks. Then I really don't understand why the VVD is voting against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u192	I do remember the debate between Mr Kops and myself on a motion which he proposed that municipalities should in all cases stop maintaining. I remember asking him: is that really in all cases, even if there are living and safety problems? Then he said, no, that's not the case. Then I asked him to amend the motion. He didn't want to, and then I told him nicely: we have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u193	Perhaps Mr Koerhuis should read back the Acts, but well. Indeed, people who are currently staying in their holiday homes, also forced to stay there because they often do not have a different home, are now expelled by municipalities by means of periodic penalty payments. These periodic penalty payments amount to €60,000, €70,000, €80,000. That's a big deal. If what Mr Koerhuis says is serious, namely that we must make this permanent habitation possible, why does he allow people to be chased out of their homes with periodic penalty payments in the meantime? You can't do that to those people, can you, Mr. Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u194	In our interrupting debate... Of course, I agree with you to a large extent. Certainly looking ahead to an update of the scheme for recreational residences, I think that municipalities should start using the human dimension. I would like to call on the cabinet to bring this to the attention, not only of municipalities, but also of provinces, to apply human standards there. But I have also indicated in our little interruption debate that it cannot be the intention to stop maintaining anytime and anywhere, because in about 10% of the parks there are serious safety and viability problems. That's what the minister himself put in the picture. And sometimes, as I say to the PVV, we have to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u195	I think this is an easy and vague story from Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u196	You're being easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u197	In fact, he says he agrees with us, with the content of this motion, but nevertheless he votes against it. That's such a shame. That is Mr Koerhuis's policy: he is voting against it on principle, but the follow-up is that he is abandoning all those people in those houses. You really should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u198	This is Mr Kops's policy: to pretend that there is no need to maintain it in this country. I do think that sometimes there is a need to be maintained. The Minister himself identified that 10% of parks have serious safety and viability problems. I would like to invite Mr Kops to take a look there. I think that Mr Kops will come back differently and will therefore argue that there is sometimes a need for customisation and that there is sometimes a need to maintain it. But I say again, and the Minister has also mapped out that you do not have these problems in a large part of the recreational parks, 30%. Those are the parks where, unfortunately, I say we should go to the PVV with customized habitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u199	Thank you. I suggest we suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u200	The technique also stood for nothing, literally. This has been brilliantly solved by our technical support and our stenological service, so we're moving on. I would like to give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u201	Mr. Chairman. Last week we were with a group of GroenLinksers in Berlin. Because there is also a housing crisis in Berlin. In fact, the situation in Berlin is quite comparable to that in the Netherlands, and perhaps it is sometimes worse there. In some neighbourhoods, rents have doubled in ten years. If you know that half of Berlin's residents have a low income, so those high rents really can't pay, then it makes sense that you have a government there that says: up to here and no further. That actually ends the comparison between Berlin and the Netherlands. Because where there is a government in Berlin that says "the market is the problem and we are going to take back the grip as a society," unfortunately, we still have a government that believes in the market. Who believes the market is going to solve the housing crisis. Mr. Chairman. The result of this policy is now, after three years, this cabinet. The problems in the housing market, the problems in housing, have never been so great. And it's so bad that at the moment there's a real housing gap between people who have bought or rented a house in time and people who can't do that anymore. How come people can't do that? That's because we've sold incredibly many social rental homes, because we've lowered income limits. So if you make a little more money, you can't actually go to a social rental house anymore. Unfortunately, buying a house is not possible for a lot of people either. Because you have to bring your own money from now on, many people, especially starters, don't have that at all, and the house prices are so high that you can't afford it with a normal salary. So everyone is at the mercy of the private rental sector, which is completely free, with the result that people who rent in the private rental sector have lost 42% of their income to housing costs. 42%, Chairman! Can't we accept that as a country? Then yesterday. In preparation for this debate, a letter of inquiry will be issued. I'm gonna read it right away. The title was very promising. And in the end, it doesn't say anything. Apart from talking, doing research, there's nothing really going to happen to make living affordable again. I think that's really bad and very, very sorry. That is why I will now present three proposals to ensure that living is affordable for everyone. We start with the private rental sector, because it is actually the biggest problem at the moment. Why do we think it is normal that up to €720 the government sets the prices, through the housing valuation system, and that you can ask up there what the madman gives for it? Why not just go through that housing valuation system to the maximum number of points? That's all there is to it; that's just a political choice. Let's regulate all homes up to €1,300. That's much more honest, isn't it? Could the Minister respond to that? And if the Minister says 'that's actually going too far'........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Two years ago, you proposed it yourself as a cabinet. I do not think Mr Koerhuis wants it either, so I do not know where it has gone. Enter the emergency button! Don't let rents go up too fast. It's the least we can do. Mr. Chairman. The second point concerns housing corporations. In Germany, and I think in many other countries too, they are quite jealous of our housing corporations: large civil society organisations that rent affordable houses, which take good care of them, that make our neighbourhoods liveable. That really is an achievement... that we may realize in the Netherlands too little... that we can really be proud of. But what do we see? There are fewer and fewer social housing units, which has been government policy for decades, and the people living in these social housing units are actually an increasingly monotonous population. 1990, 30 years ago: but 12% of tenants in a social rental house were actually poor or had little to spend. By now, that's more than half, in 30 years' time. Those are political choices. So I ask the Minister: are you prepared to give housing corporations much more space again by ensuring that this landlord's tax is converted into an investment obligation? That's probably how it works: you say "developed," "next cabinet term," "research." Okay. Are you then prepared to at least ensure that housing companies can start building in that middle segment again and that this market test, which I believe everyone, apart from Mr Koerhuis, is strongly opposed to, is simply dropped? Then there is my final point. That's about the buy. Isn't it much more logical to build all the new homes that are being built just for people who are going to live there? At the moment, as a starter in the housing market, you simply have to compete with speculators and with house milkers. You're never gonna win that. Isn't it much more logical to choose a compulsory residence? Then the cabinet's gonna say, "Oh, very intense." That is what the two gentlemen I see at the interrupting microphone are going to say. Are you at least prepared to adjust the transfer tax so that it goes to zero for starters and becomes much higher for speculators? I think that's what everyone's for. Perhaps not Mr Koerhuis, but it did say it was going to happen. Why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u202	Now I was doubting which of the tandem was the first to come out of the starting blocks, Mr Ronnes or Mr Koerhuis, but I'm guessing Mr Ronnes. I get that whispered here and the Registry is always right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u203	I am a bit flabbergasted by what is said here by GroenLinks. Through you, Mr President, I must say that I am truly surprised. You say: I am now going to come up with three proposals. I agree with the content of these proposals. There are proposals that appeal to me, but not one of the proposals that you mention has to do with building more houses, and that is precisely the subject for today. We all think there should be more housing. And what does GroenLinks do? We're gonna talk about rules again and stuff like that, but not about building more homes. What ideas do you have to come to more housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u204	I just said something about the landlord tax. I am sure that if we abolish them, 100,000 more homes will be built in ten years. Aedes did the math for us. I am very pleased with this question, because the big problem is that you only want to talk about more homes. Let us say that we are talking about all the homes of the Netherlands and that Mr Koerhuis gets his way: we are all going to "build, build" hard. That's what we're here for: extra building. Then maybe in the next few years we can build a very small piece. This still means that all these other homes remain far too expensive for all ordinary people in the Netherlands. So yes, we have to build extra, but by just talking about "building, building, building," we don't solve the problems for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u205	The fact remains that there are too few locations. I would therefore like to hear from GroenLinks how we are going to solve this problem in the Netherlands. I am quite prepared to look with you at how we can achieve more housing, because I think that is the best solution. How do you think that's gonna happen? You do not want Rijnenburg. You want everything in Utrecht indoors, preferably 40 m and then as high as possible. Not all families want to live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u206	Indeed, in Utrecht we want to build incredibly many houses, but in urban areas. In Amsterdam, we want the same thing and actually all over the country. How can we make that possible as a Lower House? I am receiving a lot of reports about this and I am sure you will. We can do this by, for example, ensuring that public transport in such areas is much better regulated. Because that's when you can actually build. Then what's the problem we have? We have an MIRT scheduled for the next ten years. For all the extra homes that municipalities now say they really want to build, there is no dilation at all. I do not think you will solve that problem, and I would very much like to do so. Let's see if we can find each other in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u207	Mr Ronnes, finally. A brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u208	Infrastructure is indeed important, but the core remains: not every type of home can be built in the city and with the volume that you can also sell in Utrecht, you cannot meet the demand. So you keep artificially holding up the prices you want down. I think it would be good if you looked a little more towards us and looked at how we could build houses, for example at the Rijnenburg site.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u209	I'm getting a little tired of this, because I think we've been talking about one polder in Utrecht here in the Lower House, the National Parliament, the National Assembly. The CDA and the VVD are not in the coalition and because they can't arrange it on the council, they try to do it permanently in the Chamber. It is fine to have a discussion about Rijnenburg, but please let them do so in Utrecht and let us solve the real problems of the real people throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u210	I would like to give Mr Ronnes my support. GroenLinks is only redistributing here. That's classic. We are in favour of making the cake bigger, but GroenLinks, together with the other left-wing parties, is in favour of redistributing the cake. The limit for social rent up is nothing but: we call a middle rental house a social rental house. The landlord's tax is nothing but a relief for corporations and a burden increase for hard-working citizens. This obligation to live is nothing but: no tenant is allowed in it; there must be a buyer in it. That's what it comes down to. GroenLinks has big words...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u211	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u212	My question is... We see a city where GroenLinks is the largest party, where their great leader sits and where their mayor sits, but where no great plan has been around since this college period. Isn't it time for GroenLinks not to talk about redistribution, but just to make the cake bigger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u213	I am standing here with a shining smile, because I have rarely heard Mr Koerhuis make such a fantastic plea about redistributing. I'm very happy about that, too. Yeah, we want to redistribute. We want to redistribute the profits of the cottage milkers and speculators, those are your friends, who make ridiculous profits over the backs of normal people, to people who want to buy a house for a normal price. For that, we would like to redistribute. Then there may not be an extra house, but that is the most important thing we need to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u214	Here comes the monkey from the sleeve. As GroenLinks says "no house will be added" and that is exactly what we need. We're having a debate about the housing shortage. It's about 300,000 houses. The monkey comes out of the sleeve: GroenLinks does not need a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u215	Of course, that's way too easy. I have just said, in response to Mr Ronnes, that we want to make an investment obligation for the landlord levy. We want 100,000 more homes in the next ten years. Mr. Koerhuis, 100,000 extra homes! You must find that fantastic as Mr. Build, Build, Build. Now you're pissed off again, shaking no. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u216	Shutting down, because you were angry, shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u217	That landlord's tax is nothing but a relief for corporations. It will have to be paid by a burden increase for hardworking Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u218	Amen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u219	Okay. That's how we like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u220	I heard Mr Smeulders say that he wants every new home that is being built to be inhabited by a resident. That property has to be bought, so it's a self-inhabitation obligation for every new home. Does Mr Smeulders agree with me that we do indeed have a very large construction project and that parties such as pension funds and insurers can also contribute to this by building houses? But I don't suppose pension funds can live in those homes themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u221	I think that is a valid point from Mrs Van Eijs. I agree with that, on the condition that agreements are made in the very long term on the amount for which the property is rented. And if it is sold for a lot of money a few years later, then the profits must be returned to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u222	In any case, I am pleased to hear that such a large party is not forgotten, because these are parties that can help solve the huge deficit. But it is true that part of the business model of many institutional investors, as it is so beautifully called, is insurance companies and pension funds to spend a time out of a home at a reasonable price and to sell it at some point, sometimes also to the resident. Is it always bad, by definition, for a private house to end up in the purchasing sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u223	That is not necessarily bad, as long as it is done at fair prices. What we see now is that no new home is being built in the middle segment. Large investors also build mainly in the high segment. I understand that they do, because then you can make a lot more profit, and that's their interest. But we serve the social interest, so if we say "you can rent out houses," at least we have to make sure that these are affordable houses. I think we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u224	Mrs Van Eijs, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u225	That is one of the reasons why I have proposed to make such a consultation between such parties, the housing corporations and the municipalities structural, so that they can talk together about how we are going to ensure a decent middle-rent sector that is affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u226	That's what I'm here for. I've been alderman for four years, including land affairs. I've talked to a lot of developers. Eventually, they have one goal, and that's making money. I don't blame them, but we have a different goal as a government. We have a social objective. I'd love to stand for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u227	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u228	I will conclude, Mr President, because I have very limited speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u229	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u230	The inspiring thing about Berlin was that they show that they can. Let us also show in the Netherlands that it is possible. I want to end with this: it cannot be done alone; it must be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u231	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the huge housing shortage in the Netherlands, we must dare to look wider and think bigger. What's our country supposed to look like? Where does the energy transition take place? How do we shape climate adaptation? How do people get to work? And where are they gonna live? There is now a shortage of 300,000 homes. That deficit may well be running out. This also involves larger locations. We need to be smart in using our scarce space. One such location is Pampus near Almere, an area that has been decided a few years ago that we can build many houses, no less than 25,000 homes. In Pampus, D66 sees a neighbourhood of the future, with climate-adaptive, nature-inclusive neighborhoods, right in the city of the Floriade. We see neighborhoods in front of us that are sufficiently compact to maintain good facilities and where nearly 60,000 people can find a home. This is part of the solution for the screaming shortage of affordable homes, with the fast IJmeer connection only ten minutes away from Amsterdam. That IJmeer connection is crucial for the development of this piece of Flevoland. Smarter building and dealing with our space requires the Empire to look closely at what is already in the hands of municipalities and the Empire. The vast majority of the inner city land is already owned by municipalities or the Empire. I ask the Minister where, as in Valkenburg, the Empire can provide a large number of homes on its own land in the short term. Mr. Chairman. According to D66 there must be more of those obvious locations where on one side of an old town centre lies a sprinter station, but on the other side an empty meadow. How can we, as a government, better look at these kinds of locations and make the adage "building around Ov nodes" reality there too? Does the Minister share this interest for future locations? What can it do to make living and mobility much more compatible and thus accelerate housing? Today was once again in the news that the number of commuting kilometres is increasing, so the relationship between living and mobility is very important. New locations often have quite a lead time. In the past, potential locations have been regularly put in the refrigerator. How does the Minister ensure that when the demand falls back, we do not kick the brakes again and the same mistakes are not made as ten years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u233	I would like to go back to the Pampus idea Mrs Van Eijs mentioned. You indicated that we should make that connection towards Amsterdam. I am very curious to know what you think about this connection going through a Natura 2000 site and how you think we are going to solve it. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u234	The sound system isn't working properly, so I hope I understood the question correctly. I think the question was about Lake Marker and Natura 2000. We must, of course, maintain that. We do not want to diminish the status of the Natura 2000 site in any way. In the past there has been talk of a larger plan around Lake Marker at all. We think it can be included. Think, for example, of a tunnel connection. You should then build it in a smart way, which might improve the Natura 2000 qualities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u235	Can you speak loudly and clearly in the microphone, Mrs Van Esch?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u236	Yes, of course. Apologies. I can imagine. We do not yet see these possibilities. I am curious to hear what you think about us now that the Pampus wood in Almere should be under discussion as a housing site. That's where trees are being cut down for building 1,000 homes. You indicated another location in Almere where it is possible as far as you are concerned. I'm curious to know how you feel about deleting the location you're looking at and looking at the location you're referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u237	I think there's more than one explanation location at Almere. Of course, there is a huge growth core for a reason. A number of locations are already under development. Pampus has been intended as a location for so many homes for a long time. They think they're still able to compact there. We want to do it in such a way that Almere himself wants to maintain the natural values that the area still has. In addition, they think they can build those 25,000 homes in the area that is now temporarily in use as an agricultural area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u238	My final words are next. I hope that we can keep the support of D66 and that we are not going to sacrifice the nature in that environment, which is Pampus wood now, for housing there. So no more sacrificing Marker for housing. We would like to think about a location there, but I would like to make it very clear that we are at least on the same side when it comes to nature, which is very valuable there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u239	My colleague Tjeerd de Groot is very busy with this, for example with the Marker Wadden. The idea is to see how to strengthen the natural values there. The fact that there is water does not, in my opinion, mean that there is a natural value. These natural values must therefore be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u240	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u241	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the housing shortage, it is not only about locations, but unfortunately also about scarcity and therefore increasing costs of people and materials. Our current way of building is slow. According to D66, construction can and should be a lot cleaner, smarter and faster. From a piece of land to a house takes more than ten years. Construction logistics is still inefficient, the number of building errors is high and the failure costs and delay is corresponding. The construction is notoriously conservative, with exceptions. In the vision of D66, real innovation in construction is inevitable. With the great construction and sustainability challenge that lies ahead, we cannot make it by continuing on the same footing. We need to get to a CO-neutral built environment and a circular economy. But our construction is still largely fossil, with a lot of steel and concrete, which is not yet optimally reused. The materials passport is a first step. But the practice of building really has to be different. That's something that can also help in the whole nitrogen discussion. Research from the sector itself indicates that construction is one of the least innovative sectors. I asked Minister Knops a number of questions about this earlier. I won't repeat it here, because those answers will come if it's okay. Does this minister agree with D66 that we need all construction companies to build more homes faster? Does the Minister agree with me that it is a shame if young, innovative companies do not get a chance here because they do not get involved in guarantee funds? The Minister indicated earlier that she does not see that as her task. How does she reconcile this with the much-needed innovation in construction? The construction also needs to be much faster. It's possible. There are innovative concepts in which homes roll out of the factory in record time, not only temporary homes, which accommodate thousands of emergency seekers, but also ordinary homes, which can last for decades. How does the Empire encourage the construction of this kind of fast housing, I ask the Minister. And then there are the procedures. The Expertteam Housingbouw signals a significant bottleneck: the capacity of municipalities. In the region of Amsterdam there is a team that helps regionally with faster licensing. What can be learned nationally from this acceleration of licensing in the Amsterdam region? The lack of sufficient civil servants and expertise in municipalities seems to remain a limitation despite the use of municipalities. What role can the Minister play in this? Mr. Chairman. In these times of a huge housing shortage I find it difficult to explain that I am currently receiving a lot of emails from people in recreational homes who are being evicted. Together with the VVD I make a proposal to make permanent living in recreational homes easier to make possible. I understand that not every home is suitable for legalization, but in addition to maintaining the action agenda there is also very clear search for accommodation for people who need to leave their recreation home. Can the Minister promise that she will talk to the municipalities that are now putting people out on the street without engaging in an alternative place of residence for these people? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u242	Thank you. Oh, I see Mr. Nijboer coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u243	Mr Bishop started this debate and he was talking about a earner. D66 often talks about singles. I thought: maybe we can create a colorful coalition to at least get the single punishment that the cabinet wants to introduce. The singles are less likely to be eligible for a social rental house. Is Mrs Van Eijs able to poke for that, given the affordability problems for singles?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u244	I understand that question very well. I thought that was hard, too. But the social housing we have now, so the stock we have now, is very limited. There are long waiting lists. That means that if we now assign a home to someone with a higher income, someone with a lower income will remain outside. Then it's choosing between two evils. That is what we are trying to do about changing that income line. We also see a lot of families with a slightly higher income from whom we know their costs are really high and which, if they do not end up in a social housing unit, they will not be able to get around. Then I understand the question, because I would, of course, prefer to give a lot of people such a social housing, including people who still fall into that group and later no longer. On the other hand, however, I would also like to give it to the people who are living very hard with their families now, because they are supposed to be able to pay for a house outside the social housing sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u245	I agree with Mrs Van Eijs that this limit should be raised for families, but we have also had Mrs Emma from Amsterdam in a hearing here. She is just a practical example of someone who teaches at an elementary school and who could still claim a social housing, although the waiting lists are long, and later no longer because of that legislation. Then I'm thinking, if you're D66, can't you actually take care of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u246	This is, of course, a dilemma, because we can see that the pressure is enormous in some areas. There we see indeed that the teacher, the nurse or the policeman can no longer go to his own city, where he works and where he also wants to live, for example with the children he teaches. That is one of the reasons why we have made it possible for housing corporations to be given more space to assign housing to those people. I know that a number of municipalities already have local policies to address, for example, the shortage of teachers and to provide them with a social housing. We also offer that space for more customization, but it remains a difficult choice; I honestly admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u247	Finally, Mr Nijboer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u248	That's what we do here every day, making tough choices. That is the misery of politics. But it's about choices we make. I really think the solution is to build more affordable rentals, including social. We must make this possible, so that families and singles can live affordable. Does Mrs Van Eijs agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u249	We have a shortage of all types of housing, as well as an urgent shortage of social housing. They also need to be rebuilt. If there are many more social rentals, we need to make less of those kind of difficult choices. I welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u250	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u251	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a huge housing shortage. There are 315,000 homes too few. Then we are talking about a densely populated city as big as Rotterdam. You'll only have to be a typical hardworking Dutch family, husband, wife, children and wait for years for a home. Or you'll only be an elderly person who can't live at home anymore, while the nursing homes have been demolished and there are no less than 20,000 missing places in the nursing homes. A decent roof over your head has long since not been taken for granted, thanks to Rutte III. Because, of course, that housing shortage did not occur yesterday, nor did it occur last week or last month. It's a result of years of government failure. Because what the hell has this cabinet done about this housing shortage over the past few years? It has talked a lot, talked a lot, gathered a lot, drank a lot of coffee and especially made the wrong choices. This cabinet has chosen climate, environmental and nature rules instead of housing, and for lucky seekers instead of for the Dutch. Because, Mr President, who is not affected by the housing crisis? Those are the lucky seekers, the asylum seekers. Status holders are called here, I believe. While the Dutch have to be on the waiting list for years for a social rental home, status holders still receive massive priority. From January 2014 to January 2020, no less than 85,000 homes have been given away to status holders. And that while 75,000 houses have been built from 2014 to 2018. In other words, you can add whatever you want, but if you continue to give away homes so massively at the same time, that's no good for the Dutch. The Dutch are severely discriminated against. And that will get worse and worse in the coming years, because the population will continue to grow and grow, especially through migration. It goes on and on. And again, the PVV gets right. Close the borders. Send those lucky seekers back. Then we can immediately house 85,000 Dutch families. After all, they're their homes. A lot of Dutch think so and want to. Almost 60% of the Dutch think that these homes are not for those lucky seekers, but for the Dutch, for example, we had Maurice de Hond examine them last week. A majority of the voters of CDA, VVD, SP, 50PLUS and Forum for Democracy also think so, just like our own voters. It really is a gross, unforgivable shame that massive housing is being given away to happiness seekers and our own people are being left in the lurch. And then the madmen talk about bringing even more Africans here, says D66. Mr. Chairman. I told you, there are 315,000 homes too few. But instead of building a lot of houses very quickly and very quickly, this cabinet has itself put a brake on them with pfas rules, nitrogen rules and CO rules, which means that homes have to be built without gas. Thanks to all these rules, licensing in 2019 has fallen dramatically. The consequences will continue to be felt in the years to come, because the growth of the construction sector is still at least two years behind schedule. It is really too scandalous for words that this cabinet has chosen climate, nature and the environment and left housing to its fate. With that it is final: GroenLinks' world alienity already reigns. We also see this world weirdness in the climate madness. Not enough homes are being built, but windmills and solar parks. And then what? Where are these properties supposed to be? You can't live in a windmill. So don't build windmills, build houses. The cabinet can be very tough to promise that there will be a billion-dollar impulse for housing, but then what? What good is money if it simply isn't built? What good is money if incompetent ministers, especially from D66, do not want to build and want to destroy our country with all kinds of rules about nitrogen, pfas and climate? What good is money if incompetent, especially left-wing, municipalities are obstructed? Take Utrecht, for example. We talked about it. In Utrecht, where GroenLinks and D66 are on the buttons, they prefer windmills instead of homes. Or take Schiedam. That's where the municipality wants to give back newly built houses to status holders. That is really too scandalous for words. Or take Amsterdam, where processed asylum seekers creak on the conveyor belt buildings. It's all happening. We can't do that anymore. That is why it is really high time for the Minister to say: there is a housing crisis, there is a lot to be built up, there are houses to be built and there they are; that is the point. The direction has to go back to the Empire. There must be a lot more social housing and affordable housing for the middle class. The Minister really needs to get to work. Therefore, close the borders, as I said. Send those lucky seekers back. Stop talking about climate, nitrogen and pfas and start building. Not windmills, but houses. Not for the lucky seekers, but for the Dutch. Because this whole crisis, this whole mess, has been caused by this minister. It has systematically made the wrong choices. So, Minister, it's up to you. Fix it. I have two questions. Is that what you're gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u252	Your time is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u253	My second question is: how are you going to do that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u254	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Almost unanimously, this Chamber calls for more action. That must be painful for the Minister, right? 50PLUS has also put forward numerous suggestions for more direction on the housing market, for more construction and for better use of the existing housing stock. In the meantime, the housing shortage is becoming increasingly acute. Everywhere you see it. Does the Minister recognize that there is a housing shortage? So are emergency measures needed? I'd like a confirmation or a clasp-and-ready denial from the minister. 50PLUS sees a profit of tens of thousands of homes, even without having to build one house. The existing housing stock can and should be used better. Is the Minister going to go along with that? 50PLUS is working on an emergency law to enable permanent habitation of recreational homes. The Chamber already gave our motion a majority and the reactions in the field are positive. According to our estimates, 25,000 to 30,000 homes can be added, in this case even without one house being built. However, conditions are laid down to prevent the pursuit of profit, and a house must actually be released. In addition, 50PLUS wants one-off removal premiums for everyone who frees up a home, for example by living together. What about the implementation of the motion for a resolution on a cost-benefit study on living together? 50PLUS will make proposals for removal premiums in the run-up to the 2021 budget. People who move in together and clear a house should get a bounty. The same applies to older people who are not moving in together because of discounts. We expect that such a scheme will also free larger family homes for young people. People who move to a shrinkage area and free up a house in a municipality with a housing shortage could also receive such a premium. In our estimation, a moveable premium can yield at least 100,000 homes, without the need for one house to be added to. How does the Minister feel about such a removal premium of, let's say, €10,000 per cleared house? It's a one-time thing. 50PLUS is also working on a proposal that makes it easier to put a small house, a mini-house or a tiny house in your backyard. We believe that the existing scheme for care homes in the backyard offers good points of reference. Building for seniors is building for everyone, because it promotes the flow. What about the 50PLUS motion adopted to demand a certain percentage of age-resistant homes in new buildings and renovations? We have often argued that private initiatives such as those of the Knarrenhof Foundation deserve every support. Unfortunately, these crunches run into too expensive building land. There are plans waiting. This wonderful example of own initiative and self-reliance must be rewarded according to 50PLUS. Will the Minister at least ensure that the initiators of senior neighbourhoods can buy sufficient building land at a socially attractive land price? According to calculations by the Knarrenhof Foundation, a knarrenhof ultimately saves on the municipal Wmo-costs. Then the Stimulation Scheme Living and Care. This VWS grant is there for residents' initiatives to realize residential care arrangements. What about the applications? Is it true that individuals can hardly make use of it? Is it true that even the Knarrenhof Foundation runs into walls when applying for this fund? 50PLUS proposes to change the conditions so that more use can be made of them, including by housing corporations. In this way, concept development can be done. Can the Minister discuss this with the Minister of the United States of America? Then the nursing homes. It's poignant that 18,500 seniors are waiting in one place. It's about the elderly who really can't live on their own anymore. The broadcast of ZEMBLA last Thursday went through marrow and bone. 50PLUS pleaded in vain for the construction of national nursing homes. We'll just ask again. Is the Cabinet prepared to take on the direction and build it for our weakest elderly who need nursing? Finally. The coalition is divided and the panels shift, even where the landlord levy is concerned. It is a high tax on housing corporations. Since the introduction of this tax, the construction of social housing has been halved. That is actually unwise and no longer sellable at this time of housing shortage. 50PLUS would prefer to abolish the landlord's tax, but that is clearly not feasible during this cabinet period. Then let's take an intermediate step. Would the Minister like to come up with a proposal to reduce the landlord's tax or at least explore the possibilities for that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u256	Thank you. Then we will continue with Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What's a house? A pile of rocks with some roof tiles on it? A plan on a city official's desk? A piggy bank for investors looking for a return? No, a house is so much more than that. It's a place where you root and you come home. And it's a place to live the good life in community. But a house is another thing. A home or residence is the constitutional care of the government. In that concern, the government is failing. The government is failing towards young people who see that the waiting period for a social housing is sometimes longer than ten years. They can't go anywhere. The government is failing towards older people who have no place where they can grow old worthy, for example because they simply cannot go up the stairs of their upstairs housing. The government is failing towards 40,000 people who are homeless and homeless. That is almost as many people as the number of members of Christian Union and D66 together. Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate today on the housing shortage. This deficit is certainly due to the lack of construction sites, a lack of capacity and capacity on the part of governments and a lack of space for, for example, housing corporations. The cabinet comes up with a number of proposals. I think that's really good and I'm about to get into it. But the Minister also knows that this is only half the story. Where is the affordability in the rental sector? Where are the measures to make the nearly 8 million homes that the Netherlands has affordable? We submit a motion after motion, for the duty of self-inhabitation, transfer tax, transparency in the rental price, more rental teams, not to mention the market test. There's not enough going on. When does the cabinet come up with all these measures, which in some cases the Chamber requested by a large majority almost a year ago? I expect the cabinet to take action in this area as well in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u258	A question for you from Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u259	Great appreciation for Mrs Dik-Faber, someone from the coalition, who makes and shares the right analysis. Could she perhaps answer that question herself? What's taking so long? I'm not in the coalition and I honestly don't know. What's taking so long? Is it really Mr. Koerhuis, or are there other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u260	I am asking the question here because I really do not know the answer on a number of points. I understand that sometimes research needs to be done. That's what's gonna happen. I also see a lot of work going on, but it's all taking too long, too long. I really do see a housing shortage in the Netherlands. I see that we must return to a strategy and policy of housing. My group submitted a note on this last year containing all the proposals. Many of these proposals have also been tabled in motions and the Chamber has made statements on them. But it's all going very slowly. Mr Smeulders may see my heart cry as an appeal to ourselves and to the cabinet to speed things up. There really needs to be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u261	A call to ourselves is always good, I think, but a call to the cabinet might make more sense. Especially when it comes to adopted motions or the emergency button. But you're in the coalition and I'm not. If we call for something, I do not think it will impress us very much. You're in the coalition. Are you prepared to take next steps and, together with us, to come up with own-initiative legislation, for example, if the cabinet does not continue to deliver on some of these issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u262	I hope that the members of the cabinet will listen carefully to my speech and my appeal. I am also prepared, if things take a long time, to look at what initiatives still need to be taken from the Chamber. But I've made this call now and I want to wait for the cabinet's response. Again, my heart cry is here. We really can't last much longer. I share that with Mr Smeulders. I'm running out of patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u263	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u264	I would like to return to the measures that are being taken. My group can support it in general. My group believes that the proposal to control a 130% planning capacity is sensible, but I do have three questions. First of all about the degree of realization. It is important that there is sufficient planning, but it is also good to see why planned homes are not always built. Does the Minister have enough focus? In addition to controlling 130% planning capacity, can we also look at how the realisation rate can be increased? Second, the rural distribution. I do see a great deal of focus on the housing deal regions, which is a choice, but I do not want to focus on the regions themselves. In what way is the Minister going to carry out my motion on the Novi areas outside the Randstad? Thirdly, it is important that, in addition to quantitatively, we also build with quality so that we do not now build the disadvantaged areas of the future. What scope does the Minister see for further demands on the quality of the planning capacity in building for start-ups, the elderly and the homeless? Mr. Chairman. This is a great concern for the Christian Union. Already in 2017, a motion of mine was adopted, supported by coalition parties and others in the Chamber, on an old-age settlement. Our elders deserve a place where they can grow old worthy. When you get older, your housing needs often change. You want a house where you can live, but where you can also get care, where you don't have to sit for a chat and where literally the thresholds are removed. This kind of housing is a screaming shortage in our country. It's tens of thousands of homes. Especially the elderly with a small wallet don't come into play. That is why, in line with the Forest Committee, the Christian Union is proposing to give housing corporations more space, so that they too can build for the elderly, to remove the rules that prevent affordable living in a residential community, and to see if, with a discount on the landlord's upliftment, we can ensure that more old people's homes are built so that older people can grow old in dignity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u265	I hear some noises behind me... The VVD stands, like other parties in the Chamber, for more senior residences. I hear the Christian Union saying two things: lighter laws and regulations for the construction of senior homes by housing corporations and a discount on the landlord's tax. I have two questions. The review of the Housing Act is coming up. Does the Christian Union point to this when we talk about lighter laws and regulations? Then with regard to the discount on the landlord's tax. Does the Christian Union then agree with the system we are used to in the past: if we give discounts or incentives for the construction of certain properties, can this be paid by a slightly higher rate for the landlord's tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u266	The cabinet has put a committee to work, the Task Force Living & Zorg, to advise on more homes for older people. That committee has reported and the investigation shows that the regulation and the landlord levy are important bottlenecks. So I don't think we need to wait for the review of the Housing Act. It will undoubtedly come to us at some point, but I do not expect that, when it comes to old people's homes, there will be very different recommendations. As a housing corporation, you can hardly realize common amenities, a place where you can have coffee with each other or a place where you can store your scooter mobile. I believe that a solution should be found. That's the first part of the question. The second part is about the landlord's tax. That too is a bottleneck raised by the task force. I am also very interested in the Minister's response on this point. We are in favour of abolishing the landlord's tax. That's no secret. That's not what I'm advocating. I'm seeing a major housing shortage for the elderly. That is why I say: can we still take a step in the landlord tax, as we have already done together, in order to achieve more housing for this particular target group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u267	The Christian Union is talking about the House Act. The review of the House Act will be in the Chamber in a few months. Is that what the Christian Union is talking about? Is she calling in the Cabinet to send a slightly different assessment of the Property Act? Or is the Christian Union itself thinking of amendments? Then I'll come to the landlord's tax. A discount on the landlord's tax must be paid. The VVD is very much in favour of applying incentives in the landlord tax. We see a large shortage of senior homes, so we can also really look at an incentive for the construction of senior homes, but it needs to be covered. In the existing system of the landlord tax, a slightly higher rate is a very logical coverage. That may come back in the form of a discount on that, so that there will be no net increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u268	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u269	The question is whether the Christian Union is prepared to look at that coverage, because then it becomes interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u270	Again, the review of the Housing Act is very interesting. That will be a broad evaluation. I see now an opinion that the Chamber itself has asked to amend the Housing Act for housing corporations. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we are not waiting for the review of the Housing Act. As far as the landlord levy is concerned, I am prepared to look at cover, because I also understand that there must be cover for it. I'm not saying that's what I'm thinking in line with the VVD. I am very happy with the outstretched hand of the VVD to see how housing corporations can build more homes for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u271	A closing short question or comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u272	That outstretched hand we reach out to each other. One last short point about these apartments. I wonder what law the Christian Union will settle, because I can only see the evaluation of this House Act coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u273	I do not think we need to wait for an evaluation to amend legislation. We can do that with each other, but that's not a law of Meden and Persians. We can anticipate the evaluation of the Housing Act, which will again lead to opinions, to written rounds in our Chamber et cetera et cetera. With the review of the Housing Act, we haven't changed the law yet. It's gonna get over that for a while. There is now, today, a report on the basis of which we can amend the Housing Act. It's small adjustments that can make a big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u274	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u275	Finally, I would like to dwell once again on the homeless. There are almost 40,000 in a prosperous country like the Netherlands. That is a disgrace to my group. I sometimes miss the emergency at the Ministry. Significant of this is perhaps that I stated four months ago which have still not been answered. My question to the Minister is: when are the answers to my parliamentary questions? If I'm not mistaken, half a billion dollars has already been subscribed by housing corporations. Others have also referred to this. That is good, but is there also specific attention to build for the homeless target group? Can the minister check that out for us? Here too, we need to see what we can do with the existing buildings. The National Real Estate Company has more than 12 million square meters of buildings. Then there are also the municipal properties. I want to be sure that we are doing everything possible to use our own surface area, the area that the government and the municipality have available, for a social task, for example those 40,000 homeless. What contribution can the State real estate company and municipalities make to this? Mr President, I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u276	Thank you. I shall then come to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mrs. Van Esch from the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u277	Mr. Chairman. A nitrogen crisis and a pfas crisis. A climate crisis and a biodiversity crisis. Now we are having a debate on the housing crisis. It looks like we're dying in the crises right now. Then you wonder: are these natural phenomena or is this the result of bad policy? Unfortunately, it's mostly the latter. If you hear the government parties today, you won't think so. You hear them talking about a housing crisis, but no hand is put into their own bosom. The solution has been thought too much short-term, namely just building, building, building. At the expense of what, we ask ourselves. You do not hear these parties about the fact that they have not wanted to deal with the livestock for decades, which means that we are now in a nitrogen crisis. The PAS is the reason why housing has become even more rigid. You don't hear enough about the landlord tax they set up a few years ago. This still means that billions, which can be used to build cheap homes, are not going to be there. You don't hear them talking about actively attracting foreign investors to invest mainly in Dutch houses, which makes the prices even worse. You don't hear them about wanting to sell as expensive as possible, to gain economic profit as a government, at the expense of affordable houses. You don't hear them about the policy that leads to the numbness of the landscape. In recent years, mega-distribution boxes have been built at a rapid pace, taking many hundreds of thousands of square meters. What do you mean, a lack of space? Rutte made a personal effort to get a distribution centre of Alibaba, of no less than 380.000 m, to the Netherlands, although that was fortunately in vain. It is important to mention these examples, because those who do not learn from their mistakes will continue to make them. In the newspaper today there was an appeal to this Chamber to come up with a solid analysis of what is wrong with this housing. At the heart of this housing crisis, as far as the Animal Party is concerned, is the result of the widespread liberalisation and decentralised spatial policy. The result is that if things go down economically, it will not be built, but it will be necessary. It leads developers to hold land until the price is up to date. It leads to expensive houses being built, which are less needed, while there are no cheap homes that we need so much. It is the policy where the profit margin of a project is the only one that counts for the developer, while the social interest must count. In particular, let us not continue with decentralised policies, where municipalities compete with each other and lose valuable green space in this fight. Today I heard a broad call for more direction from the Empire. That is a call that we support, but which, as far as we are concerned, should also call for reflection on the desirability of this forthcoming Environment Act. You are only going to decentralise this law, which you have just all voted for. So how are we actually going to get enough houses? As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, there are plenty of possibilities. These are opportunities that are also future-proof and bring more social benefits than just building, building, building. There are of course a few no-brainers, such as less market in abolishing idiotic things like the landlord tax. In addition, we also share the call for more national direction: no iron hand, but more direction and no municipalities competing for residents, businesses or tourists. Take, for example, the direction to pursue an active distribution policy, which encourages people to live across the country and also enables people to live across the country. This can be done, for example, by making good ov, such as the Lelyline and light rail connections. Above all, let us not forget the greenery in the cities. Build thousands of homes in Utrecht in the Merwedekanaanzone, but now respect the sustainable choice of the municipality of Utrecht for a pass at the place in Rijnenburg. Let us build sustainable and nature inclusive with sufficient greenery in the environment. The positive effects that this has on the vitality of nature and the health of the inhabitants do not translate into additional profits for entrepreneurs. This translates into lower care costs and a more robust nature. On both points, the awareness in this house is beginning to grow that these are very important social benefits. The Party for Animals wants to offer quality of life, rather than quantity. We don't want and can't live in a petrified city. Buying out farmers because of the nitrogen crisis also offers opportunities, for example to transform the land released into nature and to use the space where stables and silos stood: for residential communities, for multigeneration homes and for other forms of cohabitation in which people look at each other. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. Finally, it seems wise to the Party for Animals to recover the space that has been swallowed up by that uncontrolled focus on economic growth: distribution sheds out, residential neighborhood in it. For comparison, Almere Pampus is 878 hectares, while there are only 3,100 hectares of XL and XXL distribution centres in the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to look at the replacement of these distribution centres by residential locations in its response to the drug-related mood that has been assumed? This can be extra attractive because they are large locations that are already well connected via the rail or road network. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Let us prefer housing people over dragging cheap stuff, prefer a roof over the head over that limited economic gain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u278	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending until 8:45 so we can eat and prepare the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u279	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living for her first answer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to divide the answer into a number of cubes, so that you have a bit of an impression in which order things are discussed. First of all, I have a general and introductory block. Then I am talking about housing capacity in regions, spatial planning and locations. Then there will be a number of questions about finances. Afterwards a number of questions about flexible living, use of stock and flex houses will follow. Then there's another block of other questions. Mr. Chairman. In general terms, I have been asked to do so, and I can also see that there is a housing shortage. I think we can indeed say that we are in such a crisis. For starters and families with low and middle incomes it is really very difficult to find a home. Increasing the supply is therefore really the only way to solve it structurally. I've actually heard you say all that. Otherwise, you will continue to argue with each other about the distribution of pain, while we want to make the cake bigger. There are several parts with which we want to make the cake bigger, but that is really necessary: building, building, building. That requires plans, plans, plans. In addition, a lot of other things are needed, but that cake needs to get bigger. In my letter, I indicated how I intend to proceed with this. You asked for more direction. Yes, I do think more direction is needed. I will come back to that later. We focus on 75,000 homes, but we already know from the CBS figures that more will probably be needed. In addition, we not only have a very big task for housing, but also a number of other very important tasks. In the end, we will have to make it all fit on the square kilometres that we have at our disposal here. I'll get back to you in a minute. Does the cabinet want to set up a ministry, a new ministry for VROM? I'd say, "Happy birthday." You have at least one minister for VROM at the moment. We call it something else, Environment and Living, but spatial planning, housing and the environment are now at least with me. Furthermore, it is up to another cabinet. Mr. Smeulders went to Berlin. He rightly points out that there are similar problems in different major cities, but there are also differences. For example, in Berlin about 6% of the housing is social rent and in Amsterdam there is 40% corporate residence. That of course means that you may take action in the private sector at another time. Mr. Chairman. These were a number of general comments in advance. Directing is incredibly important. We do a lot of things with a housing market-wide approach, aimed at both increasing stock and making better use of existing stock and preventing excesses. We all have to do that. This approach has resulted in a National Housing Agenda, regional housing deals and urbanisation strategies with otherwise coherent decision-making in the MIRT. Some of you were right to ask. It's nice to have homes, but you should be able to get there. So those two really need to go hand in hand, if we want to do that efficiently. This is where we've identified ambitions and locations. Active support for municipalities. Expert-team housing. 2 billion for the housing impulse. Supporting the development of urbanisation strategies. What are we gonna do extra? A new urbanisation strategy in the final NOVI for the entire urban network Netherlands. In the short term, the Chamber will receive the promised letter containing the further choices for the NOVI. In these urbanisation strategies, we are indeed identifying new large-scale locations. Robust planning capacity. The Empire asks the provinces to ensure robust planning capacity for housing based on the expected housing shortage. It is of course important that municipalities and provinces really have an idea of what kind of housing is needed there, because not every region is the same. The point is that we have enough insight: what is needed, in what time can we build the right homes at the right pace and in the right volume? That all requires a lot of coordination. Detach from the major locations. If necessary, we can, of course, make an overview of locations together with the region, but also of any bottlenecks. Then we can see where it is necessary that the Empire may help. In the discussions with Katwijk we finally found the solution. Sometimes it's necessary. Sometimes it doesn't just lie still, but it's just hard to find the right solutions. We need to work together to ensure that we use all the instruments we have, and we do. With Aedes and VNG bets on gear locations, the deployment of gear teams. In the case of housing corporations, too, production really needs to go up. We see that of the plans they have themselves made, only 60% is realized. That's really not enough. We need to find out together how it can be that even the realization of the plans they have made themselves is left behind. Then maybe you should make more plans. There may be very good reasons why a project doesn't go ahead, but it can't be that we're lagging so far behind in realizing the plans. Developing regional urbanisation strategies with sufficient locations in the right places. Concrete arrangements, also in relation to the MIRT. Where necessary, you should also be willing to use a legal instrument. You had a discussion among yourselves about: after how many years is that then? I think that's what you're supposed to do if you're not gonna get out of it administratively. But the commitment of directors among themselves must always be first to get out of it administratively. That is the fastest way. We also have all kinds of other procedures. It's there, it's in the instrument box and it might be necessary. But if you as drivers can make joint agreements, you're generally faster. That must be the first commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u281	I agree with the Minister. You need to talk about it administratively in a good way and you need to see if you can get out with each other. But take Utrecht, for example. This has been going on for years. We asked years ago for a report, an ABF report, about the housing planning of the regions. And we just see that it runs from 2024 in Utrecht. At some point, you have to, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u282	Yes, at some point you have to; you have to. I agree with Mr Ronnes. The question is: when has that moment arrived? When fellow governments really don't fulfil their role, you first have a conversation with each other, but eventually you also have other instruments. Utrecht has set its planning capacity to 130%. Mr Ronnes and I have had a discussion on this before in a debate. He wonders if there is enough pace and capacity at the right time. I have indicated to Mr Ronnes quite recently that I am discussing this with the province. That is what we are going to do, because we need both pace and volume, and not just plans that are far away in the future. But I think it's primarily up to the province to decide: I'm going to build; where do I want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u283	That's good, because since yesterday there's also an approved chamber motion to do that, so that's a very good point. Only, you yourself sent a report to the Chamber showing that Utrecht has not yet reached 130% towards 2030. That should have been magical on the table soon enough to make a decision on how to proceed. That doesn't have to take so long, does it? It's been about four weeks since we talked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u284	Time is a wonderful factor. Sometimes four weeks is long and sometimes four weeks is short. What matters is that there should be sufficient capacity and that we should have a view with Utrecht that those locations can be made available at the same rate and in the same volume as is required. As I have indicated, I am discussing this with Utrecht, partly in the light of the concerns that Mr Ronnes has about these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u285	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u286	Thank you for your commitment. I wonder when we can expect something. I had that question in my input, too. I want to know a little more specifically what the time is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u287	Let me see if I can say a little more about that in the second term. In any case, we hope to get back to Mr Ronnes before the summer. If that is concrete enough, I can answer that in this way. You have also had a discussion with each other about inner urban and outer. You are right to ask about the vision of the cabinet. Simply put: it's en-en. It has a lot of advantages to build indoors. I was on a working visit in RijswijkBuiten and I received the report from the province of South Holland. It has identified that there is still room for 25,000 homes along the existing infrastructure. Of course, that's a lot. That's great. But if at some point we can't do that anymore, then, given the great task we have, we may have to go to new locations. So it will be en-and-and: both inner-city locations and transformations and outlying locations. In the Housing Deal MRA there are also known acceleration locations, such as the station areas, but also the Westflank Haarlemmermeer and the development on the east side. So we certainly have an eye for that. We also have an eye for the interests that are more important, such as the protection of nature and the importance of having green spaces, including for the quality of life. But we're gonna have to fit in with each other. Spatial planning is going to be very important to make it all fitable. How do we look at municipalities that want to work with accelerated housing? On the contrary, I want to strengthen the commitment of fellow governments to housing and to ensure that they implement this. Municipalities and provinces are in full swing and that is very much needed. In the housing deals I have an active role and work together with provinces and municipalities on building programming. Again, if it doesn't produce enough results, then the directional role for the Empire is important to keep pace and volume in it. Is there a lack of locations? In the short and medium term, there is no shortage of locations, but these are not always sufficiently harsh. So maybe the question is: are there enough hard locations? In the housing deals we have designated gear locations to increase the volume and speed in the short term. The housing impulse will also help us to detach even more locations in the coming years. But it's gonna take another big step. We can only achieve this if all the lights are green. The investors say that there is no lack of funding available to them. I've had conversations about that recently. But also corporations get a discount on the landlord's tax and builders are eager to start, so in that light it's all about getting started. I'm actually making a call. I was approached by one of the major construction companies. That asked me: can you publicly call on all the municipalities and provinces to ensure that those permits are actually issued as soon as possible? I like to do that call, because we also have to do everything we can with each other to get the tempo and the volume up. Hard targets? It is important that all regional plans should be added to the national task. I'll keep an eye on this, and I'll send you back where I need to. Indeed, I want us not only to have 100% planning capacity, but also to make concrete agreements on what we want to see realised. Mr Ronnes had a reward for that, I believe, right away. Maybe we can make it a kind of Ranking the Stars, but at least we need to make concrete agreements about what we want to see then. I'm also prepared to report to the Chamber on that. Mr. Chairman. Targets have been set in the housing deals. However, I wanted to look at the CBS forecast as I mentioned whether the new population forecast needs to be revised upwards and what kind of housing is needed. Because when it comes to knowledge migrants who are here for a few years, that is a different need than when people settle here permanently. So I want to make agreements with municipalities and provinces, but also with corporations I really want to set goals. We have to bring together the tempo and the realization. Mr Koerhuis asked about concrete numbers and locations. Yeah, I think we should, too. Mrs Dik-Faber asked why plans are not being realised. The analysis is that plans for very different reasons will not eventually continue. But that means that it is so important to have a bit of overprogramming, because there can always be good reasons why projects lose weight. But if we want to get enough left under the line, we will just have to start with a little more: that's why 130%. There is no silver bullet, but we really need to see if in those 130% there are enough realistic projects and locations that can really go through to hold that volume and that speed. Qualitative guidelines for planning capacity? Oh, yeah. In the housing deals I also made agreements about target groups. The regions must therefore also make concrete plans for this. When I am involved in specific large-scale locations, such as in the housing deals or in the deployment of the impulse, we also set goals for affordability and ask for attention to housing of target groups in these locations. Apart from that, I have also made concrete agreements with parties for target groups myself. For example, student cities built more than 3,300 homes in 2019 alone and will build more than 15,000 homes in the coming years. One example is Valkenburg. I am very pleased that after intensive and long negotiations we have been able to realise that there are more homes for agents and teachers in that plan. So I'm very happy about that. That sometimes takes some time to puzzle, but then we take nice steps together. Mr Koerhuis asked about the transformation in connection with 13,000 homes. Do we know what's going on in 2019? I don't know yet, but the CBS will probably publish the figures somewhere in the second half of this year. Mrs Van Eijs referred to the fact that, of course, we also had a period in which there was a major fall in demand and no houses were built at all. That is partly the reason why we are now in the situation that there are too few homes. How can we reduce the cyclicity of housing? It is good for the construction companies, but it is also good for stable house production and for the pace we want to keep together. I am doing research into this cyclicity, and I will also inform the Chamber on my findings in the very short term. D66 also asked: to get those houses built...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u288	I think we've talked about this investigation before, because I've asked for it before. "In the very short term" sounds very hopeful, but I know I always have different deadlines in mind than perhaps the Minister. So I would like to hear what "very soon" means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u289	I just saw the report come by. Given the large piles that lie on my desk, I don't know exactly how far along I am with that, but it's there. I have already seen something about it, and I really hope to be able to send it to the Chamber in the near future. I hope that's enough indication. I hope I don't have the reputation that the stacks on my desk are so high that it takes too long. Mr. Chairman. Then administrative capacity. I actually found that a very interesting point from Mrs Van Eijs. We are faced with this huge housing inventory and we can see that it is actually in all kinds of places in the Netherlands. That's what some of you are right to say. There are, of course, a number of cities that have a lot of experience in making those plans, in granting permits and so on. Also in urban construction or building within the municipality it may be that there is potential to use in all kinds of places in municipalities where this experience may be less large. The MRA has set up a flexpool. This is a very good example of efficient use of administrative capacity. We can get speed with that if we have people who have experience. It is not unwillingness of congregations; you must also have that knowledge and ability to quickly assess what can and cannot be done. Nor do we have a look at civil servants that I can open for a moment. But it is really very important to spread the good example. I would also like to discuss with the provinces whether they might also be able to provide some sort of flying tilting team for the municipalities in their province that have less capacity themselves. You also don't want everyone to build it completely independently, when it might be less necessary after that. But this is a point I will certainly look at, also in the context of the housing deals. I'll talk to the county about that. Mr. Chairman. Then free land and housing. In the first instance, of course, we try to build inside the city where that can be done. If necessary, other locations are also possible. Sometimes it's necessary. With the reorganisation scheme opened up by the Minister for Agriculture of LNV, there are opportunities for a warm clean-up of pig farming. The first 30% of the nitrogen space created by this warm clean-up flows back to nature. Then it is also up to provinces and municipalities to decide which destinations they are going to allocate to the area released. So municipalities and provinces are looking at that. Mrs Van Esch asked about the motion for a resolution on anti-drugs policy. It will be dealt with in the letter on the NOVI which I will send to the Chamber shortly. We have to build at the O.V., yeah. That's important in the agreements we're making. If we can, we'll use the O.V. nodes. We have already started this at the acceleration locations around OV stations. Think of Almere Centrum or the corridor Amsterdam-Noord. That really is a starting point. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the rural distribution of the 130% planning capacity. Is attention also paid to areas outside the region? Sure. The urbanisation call must also be dealt with outside the Randstad. I shall return to this in my letter on the NOVI. Then shrink. How do we deal with the need at that point? There are two key tools to support shrinkage regions in their construction tasks, which are often of a different order, but also have to be fulfilled. Firstly, there are the regional deals that are closed with the Achterhoek, Zuidoost-Drenthe and Parkstad. It makes concrete arrangements to ensure that housing stocks in these three regions are more closely linked to future demand through demolition, sustainability and life-sustaining. The second instrument is the expertise pathway housing market in shrinking regions. By doing so, we are trying to support these regions in their future challenges. Mr. Chairman. What are the concrete ambitions in the construction plans? It concerns 8,000 homes in Groningen, 27,000 homes in the urban area of Eindhoven, 31,000 homes in Utrecht and 70,000 homes in the MRA. It also involves large-scale development of areas with the potential of tens of thousands of additional homes, etc. In the spring I'll send your Room the Inventory Planning Capacity again. In it, I will report on the latest state of play of the number of dwellings planned. Again, I just want to make agreements about concrete achievements. We will also make sure that we inform the Chamber about the progress that has been made. Then the living deals with Arnhem-Nijmegen and Noord-Holland Noord. The living deal with Arnhem Nijmegen runs very fast. Noord-Holland Noord was asked a different question. The question was not necessarily whether a living deal could be concluded, but the province is working closely with market players and municipalities. We are also looking at how we can support this task, as my colleague Mr Ollongren has done in this region before. I welcome the fact that the provinces also enter into regional settlements and housing agreements, as has happened with the East of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u290	The Minister replied to the part of my question about shrinkage and anticipation areas. That was a clear story. I just think there's gonna be more to it. But I had also asked another question. It was about the regions that are outside the busy urban areas. I mention Schagen, for example, and I refer to Bornsche Maten, a project in the municipality of Borne. There they want to build a number of houses, but there they just run into a very rigid province. The question is whether the Minister is prepared to go back in the talks with the province, not only that there should be progress in these big cities and these big projects, but also to indicate that the sum total of all those villages and smaller cores also contributes to the construction process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u291	Absolutely. That sum of all those smaller tasks simply means: homes where people are hard looking for a home. If we get specific signals that something is stagnating somewhere, I would like to ask the provinces why it stagnates there and whether it can be looked at. Because the sum total of all these small projects is of course also important for realising the whole task we have. If there are any bottlenecks, I think it is important for the province to know, so that they can perhaps see if there are opportunities to pull things off. Mr. Chairman. I think the Chamber is interested in understanding what is happening with regard to the Zuidplaspolder. This is how I read the request for a technical briefing. Of course, it is mainly up to the province, but perhaps it is an idea to see whether the province is prepared to give such a technical briefing or whether you are going to work there. In any case, I will inform the province that you are very interested in the state of play on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then about Flevoland: Pampus and Dronten. In the MRA several acceleration locations for housing are included, for example as regards Almere Centrum and Almere Haven. The starting point of the acceleration locations is to start building additional homes before 2025. The development of housing on Pampus is something we should definitely look at. Timing, size, o: of course all of this needs to be looked at. We need a lot of pace and volume. It must at least be mapped out as well. Think of the possibilities, the costs and so on. After that, we can all take that into account in the consideration of what you do when. But we just really need to look into it. Then there is the question about Rijnenburg, for the summer, and the National Real Estate Company. That is actually more of a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The RVB does a number of things in the form of private-law agreements when selling land. Per development, the conditions for transfer are specifically negotiated. We saw that at Valkenburg, among other things. It is the municipality that determines with the zoning plan the function of relevant lots. If you have any further questions about this, I would like to point out that this is Mr Knops's dossier, although I would be happy to see if I can get further information on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u292	The other half of your second interruption, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u293	So I've got another one. Now I've got to get something off my chest. I understand that Minister Knops is about the National Real Estate Company, but I think it is the cabinet's duty to ensure adequate housing. I would like to address you, as Minister for Housing, and ask you to make a firm effort to discuss with your cabinet members that the Cabinet will do everything in its power to achieve additional capacity. I find the question too easy for a colleague. Then we think in silos again. In my opinion, the cabinet should simply work on this and make all the locations available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u294	If I may take Mr Ronnes' appeal as 'take a look at the possibilities of achieving that speed and volume and see what the possibilities are through the National Real Estate Company', I am happy to look at that with Mr Knops. The question was asked a little more specifically, which is why there was a more technical answer. I think Mr Ronnes is actually calling for us to look at what we can do ourselves. I will certainly have the conversation with Mr Knops about that. How is it ensured that corporations can build SGEI homes, including in the future? The cabinet has provided 1 billion for new construction by corporations. Some of you suggested that it should be smeared in ten years' time. No, that's okay. More than 500 million applications have already been submitted. So that is very nice, because the construction has been left behind in recent times. I very much hope that we will be able to achieve more quickly with these means. Some of you also referred to the position of the corporations. For the long term, the Ronnes motion will identify whether the task and means remain in balance. In the short term, the figures seem to indicate that it is. That is what the figures show, says the Authority housing corporations. But it's just good to look at the long term as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u295	Mr Nijboer has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u296	A number of years ago, housing corporations built over 30,000 homes a year, now 14 000 to 15,000. Those are the numbers. We can all calculate theoretical figures from the Authority housing corporations, and macro there will be investment capacity, and I do not know what, but under the line housing by housing corporations is simply halved by the landlord levy. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u297	I can see that less is being realized. By the way, you have to go back a lot of years, because I think that was before 2013. So it's been a while. But here's what I'm noticing. Of the plans made by corporations within the current budgets, they only realize 60%. Of course, that also counts in the figures. I think we should find out how that's possible. If they realized that 40%, we'd be a whole lot higher. So yes, we have a long-term task to look at the financial situation of the corporations. Let's not just keep ping-ponging high: "it's the landlord's tax" against "it's not the landlord's tax'. The cabinet has reduced the landlord's tax twice. We're now betting 1 billion on making extra housing available. But I would also like to know why it is not possible to realise 100% of the plans that the corporations said they could achieve within the financial resources. Then we still have 40% to win with each other. That's a lot of houses, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u298	In this respect, these corporations sometimes remind me a bit of the cabinet: a lot of plans in the residential area, but very little will come of them. I agree with the Minister that there should be pressure on this too, but we can explore and do anything, but everyone knows that if you want to build affordable homes with a rent of €600 to €700, with current land prices, current construction costs and current sustainability requirements, then we need money. You won't get far with $100 million a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u299	But now Mr. Nijboer is going to confuse things. Or at least, he's going to talk about affordable rents while we're talking about realizing the plans the corporations themselves have made. I share his view that we should also look seriously at the financial situation in the long term. The corporations are very important to the Netherlands. So we also need to find out why it doesn't work. They really didn't just submit those intentions. I find it a little easy to take that off as: they do plan but they do nothing. I don't see it that way. I think it is a sector that is also going to be very hard at work, so I also want to know why it is not working. They thought they had at least 100% of the plans they had in the current situation, but they realized 60%. That's gotta go up. There are still a lot of houses that can be built within the financial context but which are not realized. How do we solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u300	Mr. Smeulders? No, Mr Azarkan, I understand. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u301	Yes, thank you, Mr Smeulders. Let's just get to this point. I'm really standing here with my ears blazing when the minister says, "I'm gonna figure out why the 40% isn't being realized." We are in one of the biggest housing crises we have ever experienced and the Minister says: I do not really know why. Why doesn't the Minister know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u302	What am I supposed to say? That we're not gonna find out? I see they don't realize that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u303	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u304	I see they don't realize it, so I want to know why. The housing corporations can't give me the answer to that either. That's why we need to see how it's gonna work out. So what is it that doesn't allow it to be realized and how do we get it up? Because we share the urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u305	Then there's something weird going on, isn't there? It is not an autonomous development, of which the administration of a housing corporation does not know how and neither does the minister. Are we going to set up an external committee again, as the cabinet always does? It can't be that we don't know why that 40% isn't being realized. It is from 2013...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u306	Well, do Mr. Azarkan know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u307	Mr President, I thought I was speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u308	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u309	From 2013 we see a very steady decline in the realised social housing and that is a big problem. People are on hold for years. And it cannot be that we cannot explain here in 2020 why this 40% is not being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u310	I also think that the housing corporations should explain why they don't realize that. They have enough money to make plans, and they only realize 60% of those 100% of plans. So I'm going to ask them, why don't you realize that? I think they should come up with an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u311	A brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u312	Again, I am stunned that the Minister has not done so before. Apparently, that just occurred. When can we expect the Minister to report to the Chamber on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u313	As soon as the housing corporations can tell me where it's pinching. And then I'd like to hear what we can do about it with each other. I will certainly report on that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u314	I was just following a remark from the Minister. It was actually a reaction to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. She said we shouldn't talk about affordability right now. Then I thought: Oh, yes, I haven't actually heard the Minister about that at all tonight. It was the most fundamental debate we had in the first term of the Chamber. Is this debate about building, building, building? And will build, build, build solve all the problems, as Mr Koerhuis thinks? Or is this debate also about regulating the free market, in addition to building, building, building, ensuring that living remains affordable for people in the coming years? What's the cabinet like in there, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u315	I note that that was part of your question, and that the Minister is only on a piece of her second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u316	Mr President, I can answer that. The title of this debate is 'Debate on housing shortage'. The title of the debate is not "Debate on the Affordability of Housing." There is also a very interesting debate on this, but that is not the debate we agreed to have tonight. That's why you're listening to me about the housing shortage. You are addressing another issue, which is also a very important part of the whole problem in the housing market, and I share that with you. Of course, there is also a link between the shortage of housing and the affordability of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u317	Hey!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u318	Well, there's a link to that, but that's what it's all about in expanding the offer. That is different from the debate on how to distribute the cake. So I share with you that there is a link. More building is needed to reduce the deficit, and the less tight market also has an impact on prices. But that is different from the debate you want to have on how we distribute the cake differently. We have debates on this too, and we have to do so, but that is not the debate I was invited to discuss this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u319	Well, I'm a little baffled right now, if I'm being completely honest. I believe that many parties in this Chamber have made the same analysis as I have, including, for example, a coalition party like the Christian Union. Those parties say: we have two things to do; we have to build up and we have to make sure that it is affordable. We're not gonna solve the housing crisis if we just build it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u320	No, but you hear me say the same thing. It's just another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u321	I see as the question of tonight's debate: how do we resolve the housing crisis? The fact that this debate has been given a certain title because a number of things have been put together is a good thing, but this debate is about how we tackle the housing crisis. I think the problem is that the cabinet is only talking and saying that the investigation is going to be doing again tonight but that it is not doing anything about affordability. I repeat my question in a proper manner. Is the cabinet willing to look beyond building, building, building, also at keeping homes more affordable by regulating prices?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u322	I should like to make a brief comment because we have also noted in the note for today's debate that the debate is being held on the housing shortage and that the debate that Mrs Van Eijs has requested has been added, namely on the shortage of affordable middle rents and housing. That's what I'm saying. So it is about the shortage of housing, but this remark is in the Acts, so that is why I would like to mention it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u323	Sure, absolutely, Mr. Chairman. It's still about a shortage of homes, not about how we divide the homes that are there differently between the different groups with different incomes. I am not saying to Mr Smeulders that this is not an important part of the discussions to be held. We share that. So I am actually saying the same thing as Mr Smeulders. Only tonight we chose to talk about housing shortage. I would very much like to have the debate on this with Mr Smeulders, but for now we have agreed that we are talking about housing shortage. That's why you haven't heard about it. You asked me what the cabinet is doing in concrete terms. With Princess Day, 2 billion have been made available for the construction of affordable homes for start-ups and low- and middle-income people. So to reduce the deficit in those sectors there is 2 billion. The construction of flexible housing is also encouraged. The transformation facility stimulates the conversion of industrial sites into housing. There is a package of measures for maintaining affordable rentals. There's a cap on the World War II. The access of multi-person households to the social rental sector has improved. With an appropriate rent, the flow of people with a higher income is promoted. The possibility has been created for a temporary rental discount. The free allocation space for housing corporations has been extended. Corporates can move more easily between the SGEI and the non-DAEB portfolio. Investments in dwellings are taxed more heavily in box 3. The NHG premium has been reduced to 0.7%. The NHG cost limit has been raised to €310,000. The category of destination for social purchase shall be linked to the NHG border. In addition, there are also the residential deals. So what does the Cabinet do? In addition to the fact that we are investigating a lot, we have also come up with these concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u324	I thought the national reading week was a few weeks ago. My fundamental point is this. I'm going to draw it at an even higher level of abstraction, because then hopefully I'll get an answer to my question. Does the Minister believe with us that you need to intervene in the market if you want to ensure that everyone can live in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u325	I'm just having second thoughts. You asked the Minister if she could tell you what she's doing. The Minister tells you what she's doing and you say something about the national reading week in a bit of a nasty tone. As President, I would like to say that this was a question you asked the Minister and the Minister replied to. And now you have another question. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u326	I'd like to respond to that. If it was annoying, it certainly wasn't meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u327	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u328	In reply to Mr Smeulders, I have indeed indicated what the cabinet is doing. Mr Smeulders is absolutely asking the question. Is there a need for intervention? I'd turn it around. I'm interested in the purpose, not the means. But you can't rule out the possibility that there will come a time when you want to use the drug, for example to tackle excesses. So intervention is not necessarily the goal, but if it is necessary to tackle excesses, you should not rule out such a remedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u329	The point Mr Smeulders is making here is very interesting. The Minister first denies that it is also about affordability and then says that it was added to the agenda. But that is, of course, the essence. You can build 10 or 100 new villas, but once people have a low or average income, they can't afford it. We've now built an incredible amount in that high segment. We can increase affordability, not only by building, but also by intervening on the market. That is the question I have asked a great many times. When is the Minister going to take the only measure she has been announcing, namely the emergency button? I keep asking for it over and over again during every debate. Because it's precisely the high rent that really gets a lot of people in the middle rental homes in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u330	Mrs Beckerman asks if what you're building cares about the extent to which it's a solution to where it's pinching most at the moment, and that's in particular middle rent. I say, yes, that's true. What you build matters. As far as I am concerned, that is really part of the debate we are having. How do we make the cake bigger? That's a fair question. Again, I am also pleased that we have already made very concrete agreements on this in the housing deals. In the list I just gave, I also indicated in what ways we are doing to ensure that there is more relaxation in the middle segment market. If Mrs Beckerman asks how we are going to distribute it, based on the cake as it is, then I say: that does not increase the cake. I think the real solution is to make the cake bigger. That is today's debate. We must also, of course, talk about the different ideas about the distribution of the cake. I just had a discussion on this with Mr Smeulders, because that is a very important part of the whole debate, but not of the debate we were going to have tonight. We'll have to talk about that sometime. I would very much like to do that, but that is really another issue. That's why I liked it when they said, "What if you build ten villas?" Of course, there's overflow in there. If it is very tight, the problem of distribution becomes much more difficult than when more is being built, because then there are more opportunities for more groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u331	The minister says the cake should be bigger. There must be plenty of cookies for everyone. There must be an affordable house for everyone. What's happening now is that people who make incredible profits from the housing crisis eat all kinds of cookies, making people fight for crumbs. The question is very simple. The Constitution says that there must be enough homes for everyone. If we let a lot of cookies or a lot of profits be taken away by investors, people who want to make money from them, all that remains is crumbs, no matter how big you make the cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u332	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u333	So my question remains the same: why does the Minister see this as two separate debates? Because you can make a huge cookie, but if that still doesn't lead to people being able to live affordable, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u334	If it were just houses people couldn't afford, Mrs Beckerman is right. Then we haven't solved the problem. There's gotta be enough homes for everyone. This also means that there must be enough housing in the different categories. That is a right point of attention. The Cabinet has an eye for that, too. We put maximum effort on building, building, building. Again, I have a lot of answers for you from what we all do for that. That wasn't all realized tomorrow either. So we are also dealing with the question of how we deal with the distribution of the cake that exists during this period. I think we agreed that tonight we would focus on how to make the cake bigger and that we would talk about the distribution of the cake another time. I would also like to discuss this with you, because that is also a very relevant debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u335	Your final word. It's gonna come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u336	Yeah, it'll come back twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u337	We see that cities like Amsterdam have made the cake bigger, bigger and bigger. They ask the government for help over and over again. They can build themselves, and they did. They have broken records, but they can do very little in existing construction. That's why they ask for help every time. In recent years, under the Rutte Cabinets, a lot of priceless houses have been built. Of course, that's incredibly painful. So even if we're talking about making the cake bigger, we're really gonna have to look at the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u338	You're going to repeat yourself now. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u339	Then I'm gonna repeat myself, too. I won't reread the list I just read. But I have also indicated that the cabinet is focusing on these affordable houses, because there is indeed a major bottleneck there. We need to create more space there with each other, because there are a lot of people who can get into a particular segment, but not up there. We must therefore ensure that we have enlargement there. I share Mrs Beckerman's concern. We're working on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u340	I have a point of order and would like to support your appeal. This debate has been merged with the debate on affordable middle rent and so on. There has been a parliament here that has spoken about the housing shortage. Of course there is also affordability. House houses are more affordable than villas. The Minister now says three times that she does not answer the affordability questions and that the Chamber should do so another time. I disagree, Mr President. My question is: do we just get answers to the questions asked, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u341	I'll tell you again what was just said. A debate has been added at the request of Mrs Van Eijs on the shortage of affordable middle and buying houses. The Minister explains how she understood that. You have provided your input and asked your questions and continue to do so. But with the Minister's explanation, you'll have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u342	I would like answers to the questions I have put. I am asking questions in a debate and I want to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u343	I understand that and you are entitled to an answer, but not to a satisfactory answer for you by definition. That's what the Minister's trying to do now. I give the floor to Mr Ronnes. Did you have a question at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u344	As the applicant for the original debate, which is what this is about, I have been concerned for two years about the lack of locations and enough housing. That is what I would very much like to have an extensive debate with the Minister. That is tonight and I need to have that debate with each other, although I see the danger that we are going to deviate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u345	I fully agree with Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u346	A week or two ago, Mr Smeulders wanted to ask for a debate on the fact that no houses are available under €1,000. At that time it was agreed to deal with it in this debate. I asked for two more minutes. If the Minister says, "Yes, but I'm not doing anything about it," then I've picked the wrong debate. Then that reality is a little different for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u347	It's all added under the heading of housing shortage. Several Members of the Chamber are giving this information to me, and that is what we are saying to the Minister: it is also about the shortage of affordable housing. The Minister will answer that. She's just giving it to me. I'm just here as the mediator... that it's not just about how we make everything affordable and that she keeps linking it to the number of homes. I have not yet heard Mr Smeulders in this round.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u348	I fully agree with Mr Azarkan. It was exactly a week ago when I stood by the scheme and asked for a debate on affordable housing. Everyone said: we have a big debate next week on living, the big debate on the housing crisis, let us include it and let us take two more minutes. That's how it's concluded. That is why today I feel the room to talk about the housing crisis and the affordability of housing. I have seen that the cup was something else, but we concluded that differently last week. That's why I was a little bit pissed off by the Minister's answer. That's nothing personal, because I have the Secretary of State very high up. But when I hear "I'm not gonna answer those questions," I wonder what I'm doing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u349	Clear. Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u350	I agree with Mr Smeulders and Mr Nijboer. Of course, it's also about affordability. I am very sorry, but we have been talking for 15 minutes about a subject that the Minister does not want to talk about. The Minister is invited by us and here we ask questions. It would be very nice if the minister who would just answer and just admit it if she didn't know the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u351	I indicated in my speech that I would like to talk about the breadth of the housing crisis. At the same time, this debate has been specifically requested, as has just been recalled, in the context of housing shortages. I've devoted my entire contribution to that. I was happy with the six minutes, because there is a lot to say about that too. Let us quickly plan a debate on that other part of the subject in the not too long term so that we can discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u352	Then I conclude that we are talking about the dividing line between affordability and the deficit, but that it remains linked to the shortage of affordable housing, as it says in the document that I have before me in connection with the various arrangements of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u353	If we're gonna ask you a question, I just want an answer, right? I have a six-minute input and I just want answers from the government to my questions. That's an individual right. I didn't say anything out of order here. You didn't take the floor. I'm just talking about the housing crisis. All the questions I have asked the Minister here have to answer, whether or not colleagues find them appropriate to the titles. And I'm going to hold the minister to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u354	Fine. You will receive the answers the Minister can give you. Furthermore, in your second term, you will have plenty of room to explain this further and to ask for a Chamber ruling on it. I therefore ask the Minister to proceed with the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u355	Mr President, I am always prepared to answer all the questions put by the Chamber. But the Chamber itself regulates a certain order of response and discussion of certain issues. So if the Chamber asks me to come for a debate on the housing shortage, then I am preparing for a debate on the housing shortage. In that sense, I follow the order of the Chamber. I am always willing to answer all the questions of the Chamber, but I follow the order that you put yourself. That is the only thing I would like to draw attention to: if you invite me to a debate on housing shortage, I expect us to have a debate on housing shortage. What you want to talk about is something you need to establish with each other. I will do my best to do so where I think I can answer questions. But that's what I was invited to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u356	On a point of order: can we get the documents that have been forwarded to the cabinet on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u357	I have the arrangement of work here before me. I was just telling you what it says here. That's how we agreed to do it as a room. The debate was requested by Mr Ronnes during the discussion on 2 April 2019. The debate on the statements made by the President of De Nederlandsche Bank on Mr Ronnes' housing shortage and the debate on Mrs Van Eijs' lack of affordable middle- and buying homes have been merged into one debate during the work on 23 January 2020. There is a story of what Mr Ronnes has said and there is a story of what Mr Wilders has said, in which he has also said: there is a huge housing shortage and we want to talk about this. As a result, the Chamber decided to bring forward the debates previously requested by Mr Ronnes and Mrs Van Eijs and to merge them, with the agreement of the initiator. That's what it says here. I understand very well that several members of the Chamber would have liked to talk a little more about affordability and the total rules behind it, but the invitation was clear to the Minister. For her, it was about the deficit. Let us try to conduct the debate in this way. We as Chamber made this appointment with the Cabinet. The Minister will tell you how she sees it. Let's try to get as far as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u358	I think that is a good proposal, but I understand that the Minister repeats it for the fourth time and does not really respond to the questions that have been asked. My question is very specific and of order: is the second part, on the affordable housing, well guided? It may well be that the Minister never received that part, because she reads that it is about the shortage of housing and not about the part about the affordability of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u359	I read it myself: 'about the shortage of affordable middle-rental and buying houses'. Apparently that's what I hear the Minister say. "It's understood as a shortage of numbers and less as the theme of "payability" an sich. That's how I understood the Minister. I am going to give Mrs Beckerman the floor in a moment and then I am going to try to give the Minister the opportunity to answer as many questions as possible. If that is not enough, then you, as a committee, should come together or request a new debate tomorrow in plenary on the specific subject that you may not know enough at the end of the debate. Do you still have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u360	Maybe it'll help, maybe it won't. But you might actually think... Let's say you need affordable homes, because that's what the debate is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u361	Is that the order debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u362	Perhaps it is an ideological issue and not so much a matter of substance. 'Cause you can think, if I need an affordable place, I'm gonna have to build it. But you can also think: I make a priceless property affordable. If it is the latter, if the Minister says that that part simply does not fit in with the government's experience and is therefore a different debate, then perhaps it is a very different discussion than the opposition sees the discussion. It says that you do not always have to build, but can also make something that is priceless affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u363	I have heard the Minister in such a way that she has just replied to the Chamber in similar terminology. That is why I am now going to give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u364	I thought you spoke wise words. Let's just see how far we get. In all honesty, we're here tonight with each other and we've agreed on a certain focus. Indeed, the shortage of affordable housing was also a feature of this. I have just said a lot of things about this. Let's see how far we can get. The Chamber may, whenever it needs to discuss other subjects, request a debate. She can also bring it up in an AO. I'm always willing to answer all your questions, but sometimes we agree on a particular focus. Let's see how far we can get. I found the President's wise words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u365	Mr. Kops, I'm going to give the Minister the floor to move on. That's how I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u366	I have a point of order. We've been ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u367	Mr Kops, I give the floor to the Minister, because you had a point of order on the same subject just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u368	This is a different theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u369	I would nevertheless like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u370	I have a point of order. I was wondering when the Minister would really answer the questions asked. Okay, then we'll leave the part of affordability out for a while, but is the Minister going to say anything about the substance? I find this debate really sad. Imagine: this is in the room...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u371	Mr. Kops, I'm going to interrupt you now. I'm going to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u372	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u373	Proceed, Minister. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u374	I am going to try to answer Members' questions further. How do we look at obstacles to corporate conversion? This year, the cabinet provided 1 billion for new construction by corporations. More than 500 million applications have already been submitted. That is very positive. In recent times, construction has been lagging behind its own intentions, also taking into account the tax burden. The AW, the Authority Housing Corporations, has therefore announced that it will examine through pilots the causes of the delay in the realisation of the plans. That is also what I am saying in reply to Mr Azarkan. As I wrote in my letter, I want to map out with Aedes and the VNG acceleration locations where corporations are going to build. It also looks at the long-term financial position of corporations. Affordable properties. In the Netherlands there must be housing, but it is best to determine locally how many and which species. Municipalities, corporations and tenants therefore make agreements about the number of social housing, i.e. the number of affordable homes. For example, in some areas there is shrinkage. Mr Azarkan asked for that. That is precisely where reducing the housing stock can be a necessity. Then you can say that there are fewer social homes, but if they are demolished in a shrinkage region, it can still be part of making the housing stock there future-proof. However, in the letter I sent to the Chamber yesterday, I indicated that I would like to solve problems with Aedes and the VNG for the new construction of social housing. We all see that production is lagging behind and that there is a need and that there should be more of these affordable houses. Middle rentals and corporations. How can more be built in the non-DAEB without ending up on the other side in the excesses we used to have? Corporations are allowed to build middle rentals from the non-DAEB branch. In the non-DAEB branch, there are billions left in spending space. The cabinet has proposed simplifying the market test. The domain of corporations does not need to be stretched to stimulate investment in middle-rent housing. Mrs Van Eijs asked questions about innovation in construction companies. Yes, I do. I stimulate innovation in construction. This too is an important part of the task of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is done, among other things, through the Building Agenda and through the mission-driven innovation policy. Inside, we work together with parties from the sector. There are substantial resources available to develop and test, for example, industrial building concepts. The mission-driven innovation policy focuses on both industrialisation of the construction and sustainability of buildings. In 2019, the Empire and the market jointly made €75 million available for multi-annual innovation projects on this theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u375	I have a question about the market test. He's being simplified. Has the Minister talked to housing corporations about how they respond to the objections they have there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u376	We are still in the middle of discussions, so we are also talking to the housing corporations about the objections they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u377	The Minister announces to simplify the test. So is that a plan yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u378	It's in the coalition agreement. That is, of course, one of the intentions we are discussing. I have indeed spoken with the corporations, and they have indicated that they have certain concerns. So that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u379	There will undoubtedly be more things in the coalition agreement, but the Minister does not have much time left. If we have to talk now and then change it, I think, as Mr Ronnes said, we will leave the abolition of the landlord's tax to the next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u380	Those conversations are going on, and we're hoping to get a letter to the Chamber as soon as possible. Actually, we're hoping to come up with a letter in about a month about some of the steps we want to take. Hopefully we will be able to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u381	The Minister talked about innovation in construction, because I had asked for it. It indicates that the cabinet invests in it. That's great. However, I also had a rather specific question. That question was about construction companies that innovate. We all know that there is a shortage of professionals and construction companies that can fill the demand. However, innovative small construction companies do not join the guarantee funds. This often creates a situation in which the client no longer dares. This means that we simply do not use some of the capacity in the market. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether she would like to look at this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u382	Sure. That was a question from Mrs Van Eijs, of which I was actually able to answer exactly. My colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has recently promised your Chamber to discuss with the guarantee funds whether there are indeed barriers to access for innovative companies. This will be taken into account in the talks the Minister is having with these funds. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will also inform you about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u383	That sounds a little more positive in itself than how I got it out of the letter. It stated that it was not a task of the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u384	We've taken another step together, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u385	Mr Koerhuis, on this point? No, then it's just an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u386	It is a question of when this block ends, but I already know that I have heard the Minister on provinces. I had another question open, namely whether the Minister is prepared to see whether and how provinces can be reduced on the Province Fund in relation to planning and construction objectives. That discount on the Province Fund is a suggestion. How does the Minister view that? Maybe she has other suggestions? Is she willing to look at any suggestions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u387	We control more commitment, concrete numbers and locations. If it all fails, we can also use legal powers. However, I am not prepared to cut down provinces on the Province Fund. We want to tackle housing shortages and we also have other instruments to ultimately strengthen, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u388	As I said, the approach of provinces is one suggestion. Is the Minister willing to just look at suggestions? How does it view the VVD's idea of setting a planning and construction target per province?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u389	With regard to that last question, yes, I do think that is important. Of course, we have the 130%, but we also just want to set the construction target. We look positively at that suggestion. At the suggestion of cutting the Province Fund, I don't look positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u390	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u391	Mrs Beckerman had a question about housing money. Money is needed to invest, in order to build enough affordable homes. Absolutely, we need more affordable homes in the shortest possible time. We don't just need villas. Starters and middle-income people should simply get better opportunities for housing, by increasing the stock. That's what's needed. With Prinsjesdag the cabinet has therefore released 2 billion for the construction of homes for start-ups and low-income and middle-income people. Of the 1 billion landlord levy, more than 500 million applications have now been submitted. That's 22,000 social housing. That's what we can do with the 500 million. It's very nice that we can make that step. For the 1 billion housing impulse, the regions now identify locations that need to be detached. Tens of thousands of houses are on the picture and I expect to be able to make the first contribution next summer. Mr Nijboer asked: is the cabinet prepared to make the budget available for investment in smaller municipalities? The budget made available by the Cabinet with Princess Day aims to accelerate affordable housing. We need more affordable housing. That's what the Cabinet's bet is on. The deduction for the landlord's tax is also available for the whole of the Netherlands. So it is not, as Mr Nijboer suggested, related to certain regions. This possibility is available for the whole of the Netherlands. The impetus is used as a priority for regions with the greatest housing shortage, but this can be the case in smaller and larger municipalities within and outside the Randstad. That is what Mr Nijboer referred to and he is right. That is also the criterion, not whether a municipality is in the Randstad or not. For example, we want to make a substantial contribution to reducing housing scarcity. Shouldn't we cut the landlord's tax? Last year, we structurally reduced the landlord's tax. Last year a tax reduction for investing in sustainability was introduced and since this year there has been a tax reduction for new construction. I know that Mr Nijboer's ambitions may go further, but that is up to another cabinet. Shouldn't you turn the landlord's tax into an investment obligation? The Authority's housing corporations recently found that money was not the problem. Corporates realize less than they have planned, but according to the Ronnes motion, we are looking at whether, in the longer term, the investment capacity of the corporations will also be sufficiently maintained. It was also said that the market test, the Vpb based on the ATAD and the landlord levy were cancelled. We can see that there are possibilities now. We need to make the most of it. So we also need to see where the bottlenecks are and why we can't do that. For the long term, we need to understand the longer-term perspective; that is the Ronnes motion. In the longer term, too, corporations must, of course, be able to remain healthy in order to continue to play their important role in our system. Mr. Chairman. Then flexible living, the use of stock and flex houses. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the RVB and housing for homeless people. The RVB is currently looking at how the excess government real estate and wider vacant public real estate can be used more socially. A good example of this is the Skills initiative in the city, an initiative of the Rijksvoortgoedbedrijf and the Rijksbouwmeester to use national or public real estate in a number of pilot municipalities to provide housing for vulnerable young people, aimed at active participation in the labour market. The Secretary of State for VWS will come back to this before the summer in his approach to homelessness. Mr Koerhuis asked about flex houses and the procedure of 8 weeks versus 26 weeks. I have made it possible, through the Crisis and Recovery Act, for the regular procedure to be used for a provisional period of up to 15 years or for a maximum of 15 years to depart from another destination. In most cases, this is good, but when it comes to large numbers of homes, the EIA rules mean that there can be an urban development project. In this case, an extensive public preparation procedure should be followed. It has a deadline of 26 weeks, but that is a maximum time limit, so it can also be shorter. In March, I will report to you on this in more detail, including possible solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u392	It is mainly about the possible directions for resolution, so we do not necessarily have to wait until 1 January for the Environment Act to enter into force. From April or May onwards, I want municipalities to be able to start these eight-week procedures, including for large-scale flex housing projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u393	We are looking at what can be done and hope to be able to inform you about it in March. What about the 15,000 we want to realize? In 2018, 3,000 were realized. With the incentive approach, we are focusing on a substantial increase in the construction of flex houses. That is why we have also achieved an exemption in the landlord's tax, I have moved the time limit of temporary deviation from the zoning plan and put in acceleration rooms to make the potential clear together with the regions. I am therefore very pleased with Aedes' initiative to realize 10,000 flex homes. At the moment we are investigating the construction of flex houses; end but I will send that to your Chamber. I hope to see a clear increase in the number of added flex houses. We also have some expectations, partly motivated by the research that Aedes brought out yesterday. What are we going to do about more locations for flex houses? This is what we are talking about with the residential areas. There is often more possible than one thinks, especially in unobvious places or in non-residential destinations. BZK actively supports municipalities in this search via gear rooms. I also asked the PBL to investigate a possible tool to make suitable locations for flex housing accessible. This should help municipalities find locations and quickly set up flex houses. The first findings of this study will be discussed with a number of municipalities in March. Mr. Krol asked: could the stock be used even better? I remember that in one of the first house debates I did, Mr Krol tabled a number of motions with ideas to facilitate the flow so that we try to make the stock we have fit as well as possible with what people need. I agree with Mr Krol that investing in old people's homes can also be an investment in flow. There is also a lack of this; he has rightly called for attention to be paid to this. If these elderly people can continue to flow, housing for other people will be released. I have already announced in my letter that I am going to investigate how to make better use of the stock, for example by looking at the financial consequences of living together. I will take Mr Krol's suggestions into account. Holiday parks: also a way to increase the number of homes that can be used. Mr Koerhuis, Mrs Van Eijs, Mr Krol and a number of others have drawn attention to this, in my view Mr Ronnes and perhaps even Mr Kops, if I remember correctly. From the start of the action-agenda holiday parks I indicated that holiday parks can be a solution for people in the current cramped housing market. Permanent residence of holiday parks can be allowed by municipalities. For example, it is possible to give people a personal environment permit. But actually the question was: must it necessarily be per person; can it not be at the park? Yes, the zoning plan can now also be changed on the object. It's gonna be easier with the Environment Act. It's a choice, so you can grant both an object-related and a personal license. We've been asked if we can enter the conversation. Yes, I'm talking to congregations. They're not all connected to the action agenda. I have promised to come up with a balance and quality framework for housing on holiday parks to inform all the municipalities about the possibilities they have. Because the fact that there can be more things than may be happening now means that we need to talk about this more clearly. I'm sure I'm willing to do that. There can always be considerations why it cannot be done in a particular place or in a particular park because of its safety, but there can also be a lot. We want everyone to know what can be done so that it can be used when the situation in these municipalities is serious. If Mr Krol comes up with an initiative law, I will certainly be happy to take note of it. I have recently received an initiative paper from Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Van Eijs. We'd like to take all the suggestions with us. Then special target groups. There should certainly be attention to affordable housing for particular target groups. I'm gonna bet on that, too. We must not only steer the numbers, but also ensure that these numbers match people's needs. The ambition is that as many homeless people as possible should have their own place of residence as soon as possible and that there should also be adequate accommodation for specific target groups such as older people. With the preparation of the national action plan student accommodation, the route of good rental, the action agenda holiday parks and the promotional agenda flex housing, more attention is paid to specific target groups. I also expect municipalities to commit to the implementation of these agreements. Creating additional homes for emergency workers, including homeless people and elderly people who want to leave their single-family home, is really very important. Local authorities' views on housing and performance agreements between municipalities, housing corporations and tenant associations should include these issues. Soon I'll be speaking to the deputy. I will appeal not only to the numbers, but also to the fact that we achieve the right things with each other to a sufficient extent, especially homes for vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u394	The Minister is talking about homeless people. I will come back to the holiday parks or the recreational housing problem, let me just say, as a result of the plan I presented together with Mr Koerhuis. We have had a lot of reactions from people who are in danger of being thrown out on the street. Sometimes someone is waving the action agenda, which says very clearly: yes, sometimes maintain; in some parks it is necessary because of security. Then I think it would be fine to do that. But there is also the other side of the coin: providing a solution for the people who seem to become homeless. I hear the minister says, "I want to talk to the municipalities." But does she want to talk to the municipalities to make sure that, now that there is a shortage of 300,000 homes, she doesn't say to those people: you can't live there and figure out where to live?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u395	People have to go somewhere if they can't stay somewhere. That is actually what Mrs Van Eijs is calling attention to. I assume that municipalities do this in a proper way, but I am willing to raise Mrs Van Eijs' concerns once again, because people have to be able to go somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u396	Many housing corporations have already used the discount on the landlord's tax to build houses. It's already half a billion dollars. The minister has just gone into the target groups. She also mentioned the homeless and homeless. I am very pleased that they also have the attention of the Minister. Does she also have any idea to what extent of the amount that is now subscribed to also houses will be realized for this target group? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u397	The total applications of more than EUR 500 million concern some 22,000 dwellings. There are no specific requirements for whom to live, but we do want to make the agreement that municipalities have a clear picture of what they need. Every home that comes with it, of course, creates a larger pool, so even if that property is not specifically built for homeless people, then, if you look at it in its entirety, you will find a home somewhere free when someone moves on to such a new home. The requirement is that this is a property with a low rent, below the capping limit in the rent surcharge, of €619. This is also about increasing the stock for vulnerable people looking for their homes. In addition, every home helps to alleviate the housing shortage, because in its entirety there will be more housing. But below the capping limit of the rent payment is a requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u398	It's good to hear that social rent is being looked at. We have already called in debates for attention to the low social rent and the flow from the homeless shelter. My question to the Minister is... I don't want to ask too much, but I'd really like it if it's possible to see how many homes these target groups end up reaching. The homeless and homeless target group and the teenage mothers are a vulnerable group. They just can't pay too much rent. I'd really like to have some of the money available to those groups. Is it possible to map that in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u399	Municipalities have now created bottlenecks and plans, because municipalities need to identify what is needed. These groups also come into view. In April, the State Secretary of VWS reports to the House of Representatives on this, so you will have an idea of the bottlenecks, the vulnerable groups and the plans we have. The final approach will be adopted by 1 June at the latest, so that urgency is absolutely felt. That was also part of the questions raised by Mrs Dik-Faber and to which she referred. They are still in the hands of the US Secretary of State, but we hope to get back to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u400	I would like to join what Mrs Van Eijs said about recreational homes. About 55,000 people live there now. Those people wake up in the morning and don't know if they can still live there. We have spoken with many municipalities and residents of recreational homes. The municipalities experience a threshold, also later under the Environmental Act. The Minister rightly refers to the Environment Act and to the fact that it will all become more flexible. We have spoken with municipalities and they experience a threshold to issue object-related permits in general. What could help municipalities cross that threshold is an actualization of the scheme that is now in place for recreational homes. We can make that object-bound instead of personal, and not from 2003 but from 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u401	Object-related is possible. This becomes easier under the Environmental Act, because in the zoning plan the object can now also be changed. So that's possible, but as I just said, that's not clear enough. So it's really important that we make sure that those municipalities are clear what they can do. If we talk about this then we will probably hear the same sounds from those municipalities that Mr Koerhuis hears when it comes to the question of where it still gets stuck within what is possible. Then we can also see which bottlenecks the Environment Act solves or where anything else would be needed. But in itself, the object bound in the zoning plan can be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u402	The latter I see as a small handshake: that we look at where it can be improved. If this is how the Chamber experiences it, if the residents of recreational homes experience it so much, we are talking about 55,000 people as municipalities, if in the Minister's opinion it is already possible in the Environment Act but others perceive it as a threshold, then perhaps it is worth removing that experienced threshold for those 55,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u403	It's definitely worth it. I'm curious to find out where that is. Perhaps that threshold can already be removed with a better explanation of what is possible and it can somehow be clearer or simpler. We'll look into it. It is absolutely worthwhile to make good use of these homes. So I'd like to hear from those conversations in the municipalities where it's still pinching. Because we share that it's an option where it can be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u404	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u405	Then there's the quality of life in social-rent neighborhoods. We have, indeed, recently had a report which, once again, calls for very specific attention to be paid to this quality of life and that is what concerns us. That's one of those reports you really stick with. I also think that we should really take a good look at that. Corporates can also contribute to better mixing of neighbourhoods. Again, we'll be back on the mark, but that can also help. For the summer, you will also receive a bill to adapt the Housing Act to give more opportunities to corporations to work for their viability. In the letter of October last year, I also announced my area-based approach. In the housing deals, agreements have been made for an integrated development of areas in twelve areas and it is also about viability and security. Also in the region-envelope, 200 million have been made available to address viability and security. A further exploration is also being carried out into area-oriented action perspectives for municipalities. In the first quarter of this year, we will inform the Chamber about progress. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman and Mr Krol rightly asked about nursing homes and took care. I think there was a debate tomorrow about the Task Force Living and Care. Part of the conversation is about that. That debate has been moved. I can answer a number of questions about this, so in the context of time: Mr President, we are looking at how far we are going to get. It is right that attention should be paid to this, because it helps the weakest elderly and contributes to the flow of the housing market. That would benefit everyone. The SP has a plan for neighborhood care homes. I understand you spoke to the VWS Minister two weeks ago about nursing care. After the recess, I will speak with Minister De Jonge and your Chamber about elderly housing in broad terms. The Minister of VWS has already indicated that he is working on an approach to the capacity of nursing care with a view to bottlenecks and challenges. The plan of action will come to the Chamber before the summer and should also be translated into regional level by the end of the year. This concerns the question of what is actually needed in which region. With the Stimulation Scheme Living and Care we stimulate the construction of clustered housing forms. In the meantime, there are already over 1,900 locations with over 90,000 clustered units in 235 municipalities. I am talking about initiatives such as the Leyhoeve in Tilburg and the Knarrenhof in Zwolle. Mr. Chairman. What about the 50PLUS motion to reserve homes for the elderly in the case of new construction and renovation? I facilitate and stimulate the creation of new forms of housing. I have prepared a number of legislative amendments, for example to allow changes from the social to the free sector, from SGEIs to non-DAEBs. Then it also becomes easier to set up a building for the elderly that consists of a mix of incomes. It is also an important part of the quality of life to get a more mixed income in a neighborhood. With the Task Force Living and Care, municipalities are also facilitated and encouraged to tackle this issue with all local parties by first identifying the challenges. Then, of course, there are hard agreements for the realization of sufficient homes for senior citizens. Then I have one more question about the Stimulation Scheme Living and Care, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u406	Finish that round and I will give Mr Krol the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u407	In 2019 there were nineteen applications, twelve of which were awarded. The total budget has been spent for €200,000. We're talking to VWS' colleague about the arrangement. We see that parties such as the Knarrenhof have problems with funding; that is why we are going to adapt and simplify the scheme. It will make it easier for social entrepreneurs to qualify for a grant at the initiative stage. It will be an amount per unit of residence, with a maximum of €20,000, instead of half the cost. In addition, the scheme is extended to include initiatives for people with Wlz care. In 2020, 1 million will be available for own-initiative grants, 15 million for loans and 81 million for guarantee loans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u408	Of course, those last sentences make me a little more cheerful, but the problem with those clustered forms of housing such as the Knarrenhof is the expensive land price, which means that in fact only richer elderly people are allowed to do so, while many other people would like to do so. Can something happen to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u409	It is the municipality that sets the land price. But, of course, it is right that in the total cost of something the land price can be an important factor. However, municipalities also have an important role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u410	I understand that, but because it is a national problem and not all the municipalities participate in it, some municipalities do so, an incentive on the part of the minister could help greatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u411	Mr Krol spoke of encouraging the municipalities. But we must of course realise that it is also often private property. Then it's really hard to get it done. With the arrangements we have, we are actually trying to solve part of the problem in order to ensure, in general, that it can be achieved. Mrs Dik-Faber asked for even more space for corporations to build homes for the elderly. Building homes for the elderly fits within the corporate domain. Indeed, they have been doing this for many years and agreements are also being made with municipalities and tenants. We have a bill in preparation following the evaluation and I expect to be able to send it to you before the summer. This also involves the recommendation of the Forest Committee. My intention is to allocate elderly people with low income and wealth if they wish to exclude this from appropriate allocation; then they can find a home more easily suited to their needs. There are also plans for corporations to use life-support funds for meeting-oriented activities. In addition, through the information process following the evaluation, I will focus on inspiring practical examples, in order to encourage local agreements on housing for the elderly. And the existing discount for new construction can also be used for older people. Then Mr. Nijboer asked about homelessness. I've been thinking about that for a while. In order to avoid homelessness, I'm committed to preventing home expulsion. The corporations show successful results. There is a half-life in five years and 75% of the sentences do not lead to home expulsions. In order to prevent this, poverty policy, debt restructuring and good cooperation between municipalities are key elements. The bill on municipal debt relief provides that municipalities may receive signals of rent delays and make arrangements with corporations. Furthermore, you also know that to avoid homelessness housing alone is not enough. Often care and guidance are also extremely important, for example when settling debts or looking for work. On the basis of the tasks and plans requested by the Secretary of State of VWS to center municipalities, an overarching plan for tackling the reduction of homelessness and homelessness is made. That plan will be in the Chamber for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u412	Mr Nijboer has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u413	The minister says that the housing corporations deport people less and so, and that that was set in motion five years ago. That's all true, too, but the homelessness has doubled this year and it's winter now. It's raining pretty hard, but fortunately it's not that cold yet. There are now also people with children in the homeless shelter, which in the past was virtually non-existent. But now it's quite common. Then the Minister for Housing, the Minister for the Environment and Living, cannot say with dry eyes in the Chamber that she is coming up with a plan before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u414	There have been very poignant cases; that is absolutely true. It is also important that we do everything we can to find a solution to these distressing cases as quickly as possible. But we also see that part of it is not just about a house, but about the combination, about laying that puzzle. Before the Secretary of State of the United States sent his letter to you, I think we will soon have a joint debate on this matter again: it is very often a real puzzle that needs to be laid. In everything we focus on the construction of more homes. That should give more room for all groups. At the same time, of course, there is now an urgent demand for these people to find something as soon as possible. I share that with Mr Nijboer. But that doesn't solve it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u415	Of course, there are always multiple causes. That's right. They are often people with a child who are divorced and end up on the streets, or people who are abused. There are always multiple causes. But I think that the increase from 20,000 to 40,000 is a very important part because there is no home or place of residence for vulnerable people anymore. The campsites are also full. So they're really nowhere to go. Does the Minister recognise that the most vulnerable people suffer from housing shortages, the lack of housing, the shortage of housing, and that this also needs to be resolved? Then we can all look into it and say that there are several factors, which is all true, but that there are so many more now than two or three years ago is really because of the housing shortage. There's no other way to do that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u416	Housing shortage, of course, makes it more difficult for everyone, so indeed also for vulnerable groups. Absolutely. Municipalities can, of course, prioritize and determine to whom a property should be assigned first. That is also extremely important, because some cases are really very poignant. But in order to make the situation better for all groups, we need more homes, especially in the affordable segment. That's what we're having the debate on. But I share Mr Nijboer's view that this is a poignant situation. There will be extra shelter, but eventually you want a permanent solution for people. You just want to have a place available for people. We're gonna have to work hard on that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u417	A final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u418	Here's what I'm wondering. The number of homeless people has doubled. The Cabinet is very sorry to hear that. Secretary of State Blokhuis is also at the front to be very sorry. When was that reduced? Do we only get a plan for the summer? And when will we see it's back on the old level or better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u419	It is important that extra shelter is provided in holiday parks. This means that there will be additional reception locations for the short term. That is a short-term measure. But with that people don't have a permanent home yet, and of course you want to go there. This also requires that plan and that structural approach. There'll be a plan for that before the summer. But at the moment there is also extra shelter for these people. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of other questions. Mr Kops asked about asylum migration. He believes that these houses should not be assigned to them. Real refugees must always be taken care of. For this we have a strict but fair asylum policy. Not every asylum seeker comes through the procedure; 27% were granted a permit in 2019. I also take into account another very important factor in the construction plan, namely the formation of households: how many people live in one house? There are just several aspects that play a role. No distinction is made in the Netherlands on the basis of nationality. Everyone in the Netherlands is treated equally. That is the starting point in our Constitution. But the mandatory emergency status of status holders has been removed from the Housing Act. Municipalities can therefore decide for themselves which categories of seeker, such as emergency categories, wish to include them in the housing regulation. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of whether a earners and single people can rent a house. Some of the single-earners and single people can go to the social sector. For those unable to enter the social sector, municipalities have the possibility to allocate housing in the middle segment by means of a housing regulation. Corporations also have the possibility to allocate the free allocation space for housing to middle income. Both segments also need to be added. That is why the housing impulse also specifically focuses on affordable housing and the discount on the landlord tax for corporations provides more offer. We need to make the cake bigger. Then the role of corporations in terms of viability. It is important that social housing in housing corporations is well distributed among the people they need. I therefore propose that SGEI income limits be better targeted so that low middle-income families are also eligible for corporate housing. I therefore offer housing corporations, municipalities or tenants space to make policies with each other for the free allocation space. The real solution is still: more homes, especially in that affordable segment. But there is this possibility. Mr. Chairman. I have indicated that Mrs Dik-Faber asked you to send my further plans this spring to further improve the affordability of homes. Some of the points raised by Mr Smeulders come back to this. I think it would be a good idea to continue the debate on this subject on the basis of that letter. These are very important questions. It seems good to discuss them in conjunction with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u420	I think so, too. The Minister just made a comment about the income limits. That is one of the proposals for which a law is now coming, which we are about to deal with. But there is also a reduction in income limits for single people. The PvdA has framed this very nicely and appropriately as a "single penalty." Why does the Minister want to do that? That's why the PvdA also uses a lot of the examples that someone who teaches as a starter in a big city can't have a rental house in Amsterdam anymore. I don't think that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u421	We do not think that is desirable. The only real solution to this is that there will be more homes. Until there are, this is a poignant example. But the example of a family with two children who cannot have a home is also very poignant. We're talking about dividing scarcity. That bill is not aimed at making the group bigger and the waiting lists longer, but at looking at how the homes end up with the people who need them the most, given the scarcity that exists. In all categories there are cases to think of which you think: I would really rather not. That is why this free allocation area is also important, for example. For example, it does not apply to all single people. If a municipality wants to offer teachers room in particular, then it can do the same. So we're gonna focus most of the time on the cases that need the most. In addition, we offer municipalities that want to offer tailor-made work for teachers, agents or care staff, who really have to live close by, the space to offer that customized work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u422	I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that we need to create more homes, including more corporate homes. So, please, let's go back to offering corporations a lot more space. The complexity of this is as follows. It's actually a very ideological discussion. Maybe the minister can reflect on what I just mentioned. In 1990, only 12% of the tenants of a social housing unit had a low income. But 12% was poor. By now, that's half of it. With this measure, we are continuing this trend, making social housing even more for a very vulnerable target group, with a lot of negative consequences, because neighbourhoods are simply being made even more one-sidedly. Does the Minister agree with me that this is actually undesirable and that we should have mixed districts? Does she agree that we should perhaps have slightly higher incomes in those social housing units?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u423	I do think it is important to work towards mixed neighbourhoods, but you can use different instruments to do so. For example, in addition to social housing, you can also offer more properties in certain neighbourhoods. That can also be a way to give those neighbourhoods a different mix in a sustainable way. I therefore share the objective that neighbourhoods are mixed. The report also explicitly called for this to be taken into account. I think we really need to watch each other get to those better, mixed neighborhoods. What Mr Smeulders is proposing is one way to do that, but there are other ways. The disadvantage of Mr Smeulders' proposal is that stocks are simply too limited at the moment. We need to expand it, but I'd rather assign it to those people who really need it the most, because those people have no other choice. In the end, that is what the focus must really be on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u424	Two very brief final remarks. One. Stock is too limited, states the Minister. Soon PvdA, SP and we will come up with our own initiative law so that at least the number of corporate homes will not decrease. I hope for the support of the cabinet for this. And two. In my view, there is simply no majority in this Chamber in favour of the proposal to reduce income limits, so that will not continue. But that's what we're gonna see at the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u425	That is what we are going to see in the treatment, but even if there was no support for this, the number of homes has not increased. So if we focus less on the homes out there on those people they need the most, the group is getting bigger waiting for that same limited number of homes. By only increasing the size of the group, there will be no more homes. So we really need to bet on more homes. That's the real solution. Getting the group bigger means you have less chance of getting the people who need the homes the most, too. But that is indeed a political choice. If Mr Smeulders chooses otherwise, that is his right, but we will continue to discuss it in the course of the legislative process. Mr. Chairman. Then build by corporations. Corporations have a strong local bond. The Housing Act provides that corporations must make a reasonable contribution to the municipality's housing policy. They make performance agreements with municipalities and tenants about this contribution. If they fail to do so, they can also file a dispute with the Minister. Other social parties are increasingly involved in these agreements. In addition, municipalities and tenants have the right to give an opinion on many topics, including sales. Tenants even have the right to consent to mergers and to enter into connections. A member of the Supervisory Board also sits on the proposal of the tenants. So the corporations are really strongly embedded in the local playing field with stakeholders. I took the market test. Mr Azarkan still asked about discrimination. How many brokers have been disbarred on the basis of discrimination? I have addressed both VBO and NVM in accordance with Mr Azarkan's motion. I understand from them that one office at VBO has been disbarred. No cases have been reported at the NVM. Members are actively addressed in cases of established abuses. I will also start a mystery guest investigation this year, to further make discriminatory acts visible. This may give concrete grounds for disloyal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u426	I have a question about that second, the mystery guest. The Minister writes that she does not use them so much as to establish criminal offences, but in particular as information. At least that's what I read in the letter. What's with the bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u427	If it is made visible, the NVM can also act and it can be disbarred. That's the best way to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u428	But it's very visible. Of the 52 real estate agents, 46 were called. It has been asked: if you are asked not to rent a property to someone with a Moroccan, Turkish, Dutch or Surinamese background, would you do so? 92% said: fine, we will do that if you want. What else does the Minister want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u429	The identification and determination must be carried out by the judge. I'm afraid so. But we're going to start that mystery guest investigation to find concrete reasons to possibly be able to disloy members who are misbehaving. 'Cause that's what we're really talking about. Then the NVM and VBO also have a concrete perspective for action. But through an investigation by my ministry, it is not legally possible to prosecute criminal charges, because that would be entrapment. So we are trying to find a way to make it visible, so that the parties that can act can act on it, without legal entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u430	It is not the case that the judges have to decide for themselves. Judges need to be convinced by the evidence there is. That can also be collected by others. Let's get back to the idea. I also had a debate on this with Minister Ollongren. I did not get the impression that it was urgent, in particular because she waited three, four months to visit after it had been established. That wasn't exactly a matter of urgency. I would like to ask this Minister whether she will continue to monitor this point in the talks she is having. I find it impossible to believe that no one has been disbarred from the NVM and that VBO has; I assume that this has been done on the basis of this action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u431	Actually, I would hope nothing would come out if we were doing a mystery guest investigation because no one is doing it. Let that be our hope, because this just shouldn't happen. If it does, we have to make sure that we talk to both VBO and NVM about this. I'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u432	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u433	The transfer tax. I have promised the Chamber, as part of the Dik-Faber/Ronnes motion, to explore with the Secretary of State for Finance whether a differentiation of the transfer tax for start-ups and investors is possible in an efficient, effective and enforceable way. That research is also in a final phase. We hope to be able to come to you at the end of March, early April. Mrs Beckerman asked about the Vestia problem. I take the concerns of tenants, municipalities and other partners in the region very seriously. By the way, Vestia, like other corporations, is subject to the requirements of good landlordship and, for example, has to carry out regular housing maintenance. Vestia is working on financial recovery through the established reorganisation plan. In reviewing this plan, Vestia has mapped out the financial situation in the coming years and what this means for housing in the region. I informed you about this at the end of last year. Managing director Hamit Karakus is working on a solution by helping corporations take over Vestia's homes. Furthermore, I continue to talk with the region about the implementation of the task in the implementation of the Housing Deal Southern Randstad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u434	The Minister talks a lot about new construction, building, building, building and planning, planning, planning. Of course, demolition is still one of the reasons why we have too few homes. Dismantling, selling and liberalization mean that we have too few affordable homes. Vestia really is a big problem. They wanted to demolish the Tweebos neighborhood. Luckily, the residents won. We're doing an investigation, and Vestia gets a four from tenants. All I hear is talking, talking, talking. When is the Minister coming up with action? Vestia's not a good landlord right now. This isn't happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u435	That's why we appointed that board director. He's working on a solution. That is where part of the solution has to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u436	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u437	Someone's working on the solution to find a solution? That sounds nice, but I would like to be a little more specific. Tenants are really in dramatic situations: for a year no heating, really sickening mold, a lot of late maintenance and towering rents. Someone who is working on a solution to come up with a solution... There just needs to be a solution for those tenants right now. This has been going on for a really long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u438	Mrs Beckerman rightly refers to the concerns of tenants. That's absolutely true. We have talked about mold in debates before. Before the summer comes the report of the administrative director. The sale of houses in six municipalities to other corporations is now under way. That's about a transfer of 10,000 homes. But Mrs Beckerman rightly calls attention to the tenants and to the importance of a quick solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u439	I don't think we're gonna make much progress. I'll file a motion in the second term. The fact that a report is due in a few months doesn't give any security to those tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u440	Mrs Beckerman also asked for a committee to carry out a scientific analysis. On the one hand, you say you're done investigating and we just need to get to work. Much has been studied: the annual State of the Housing Market, the State of the Corporate Sector of the Authority housing corporations and the assessment of the Housing Act. Of course, the IBO Social Rental has also been there. We are working on broad social re-examinations in which there is also a sub-study titled Good Living as part of integrated area development. There is also research on the cyclicity of the housing market. The CPB also conducts regular research, such as in March 2019 on the construction process. So I think we have a lot of elements of that analysis on the table. We have really identified with each other that there is now the most need to build more homes, affordable homes. In addition, specific attention is paid to certain target groups such as the elderly, the homeless, young people and start-ups who would like to enter the housing market. I think we're working very hard on that. I hope I have been able to answer Members' questions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u441	I'll take a look at the members. Have there been any specific questions left? Then we go to the second term. Is there anything left? Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u442	I'm still missing a response to my proposal for a one-time move bonus. I also miss the response to the mini-houses and to the percentage of senior homes needed for new construction and renovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u443	Mrs Van Esch had another unanswered question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u444	I am missing an answer to our request to look at the land released as a result of the nitrogen crisis. A part is converted into nature, if it's okay. How do you look at transforming the other space, where there were stables and silos, into housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u445	I replied to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u446	The Minister replied. I checked that out, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u447	Okay, then it just went a little too fast for me. I'm gonna check that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u448	Mr President, I propose that I look at Mr Krol's questions and take them with me in the second term. Then he does not have to go into that again, but I will take care of the second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u449	Fine. Then we'll be ready for that second term. Mr Ronnes is the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. Everyone has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u450	Mr. Chairman. That's short, so I'll start the motions very quickly. There's a lot of them! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the size of the housing shortage is high and it is therefore necessary to look for large locations where many houses can be built;]] [[Whereas viability in smaller villages and shrinking areas is under pressure due to migratory inhabitants;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the development of large-scale construction sites is not at the expense of the necessary small-scale new construction in rural communities and small centres,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas housing is a crucial task for all public authorities;]] [[Whereas municipalities and provinces are the appropriate authorities to designate sufficient housing locations to enable sufficient housing to be built in a timely manner;]] [[Whereas it would appear true that municipalities really do not take their responsibilities in this respect, the Empire is actually prepared to take further steps;]] [[calls on the government to explicitly indicate to provinces, municipalities and/or (living) regions the number of homes to be built within what time frame so that at least 75,000 homes per year will be realized, and to report the results to the Chamber on a six-monthly basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-613]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-614]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u451	Next up, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is a shortage of housing in Utrecht and the Rijnenburg site has the possibility of creating a significant number of homes;]] [[Whereas, in the motion for a resolution, the Chamber, in part No. 591 (32847) the government has asked for a short-term meeting with Utrecht to remove the thresholds for housing at the Rijnenburg site in order to speed up the earlier realisation of the new district;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no irreversible decisions are taken which would prevent the rapid development of the intended housing at the Rijnenburg site,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-615]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u452	Yesterday we voted on two motions on Rijnenburg, one specific project at Utrecht. Can Mr Ronnes explain why a motion is being tabled on this matter again? It seems as if the total housing crisis of the Netherlands in Rijnenburg needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u453	It's easy for me to say. It is a strategic location, where potentially 25,000 homes can be built. Those aren't just for picking up. The Minister has promised that she will speak with Utrecht and tries to get the figures on the table well. The motion is more of a safeguard that no irreversible decisions have been taken at the time we get the answers. I'm just waiting for the Minister's answer. Nor is it a motion that is put to the vote at the moment when the Minister's commitment is there. But I don't want to pass up the momentum that this Chamber can take control if it turns out it's necessary. The Minister's promise is that she will. With this, I try to ensure that this happens in a good time order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u454	Shortly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u455	It's a special situation, though. Yesterday there were two motions by coalition parties on Rijnenburg, which were rejected by Mr Ronnes and adopted. The cabinet has promised something, and now Mr Ronnes of the CDA does not seem to trust that cabinet commitment to such an extent that there will be another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u456	That's the same question as before. Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u457	Well, he's saying something. He says I don't trust the Cabinet. I trust the Cabinet 100%, but I want to make sure that we do not go after the facts when something suddenly happens in Utrecht that we do not have in control here. It is therefore very good to ensure that we ask the Minister to arrange this with Utrecht. That is actually the question of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u458	In the city council of Utrecht, a motion has been adopted which points to the importance of good access. When homes are realized here, I ask Mr Ronnes where his motion is to release the billions needed to unlock the residential area he is determined to push through from the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u459	No, no, it doesn't go that far. There is a promise from the Minister that the Minister will speak with Utrecht to see whether or not Rijnenburg is necessary. If that discussion is to show that Rijnenburg would be needed, then we must still be in a position to find something of it. We have said that, in my view, everyone agreed that we want to take direction. With that motion, at least I'm trying to make sure that that direction can still be taken, if that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u460	Shortly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u461	As far as I'm concerned, the direction is excellent in the province and the city of Utrecht. Mr Ronnes really only wants one thing, as is clear from the motion he is tabling today, and that is that the Empire is taking the decision to build there. Again, my question. If he wants to, let him be honest and now tell us where the billions come from to unlock that neighborhood. The motion 'no irreversible steps' tabled by Mr Ronnes also closes the developments which may still be achieved in that area. This isn't gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u462	I don't really get it. All I'm doing is trying to ensure that the verdict of the Chamber can be proved. I want us to be able to wait for the answer. I look forward to the Minister's response to this. At the time she brings this into the discussions with Utrecht, such a motion may be superfluous. I'm trying to make the point that we're not gonna let the moment pass. We say as Room that we want to direct it, then we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u463	I think it's an interesting form of directing. Does this mean that we are going to adopt a motion throughout the country, with any development that could possibly be in the way of any housing, I would call the placing of a stable or the construction of a road somewhere else, that no irreversible steps are being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u464	No, this is really about 25,000 homes in an area where there are severe housing shortages. The figures sent by the Minister to the Chamber show that the 130% will not be reached after 2024. I have the willingness to listen to the results of the talks that the Minister is having there. Maybe she'll come back with figures that it's not necessary. But what if it's necessary, then we still have to have the choice? It's not that weird, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u465	Finally, Mrs Van Eijs, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u466	If the argument is to keep the choice about every 25,000 homes that may hopefully be realized in five years' time at the earliest, we can take half of the Netherlands to the ground so that we don't take irreversible steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u467	I think this is weird. Yesterday, you yourself supported a motion, even with it, which says: Minister, will you please speak to Utrecht to see if thresholds can be removed in order to achieve that housing earlier. What I am trying to achieve by this is that between now and the moment we talk about it again, no thresholds can be created that can no longer be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u468	Thank you. That's what you were done filing motions with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u469	I had another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u470	One. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u471	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a significant shortage of housing, whereas the Empire owns a large number of properties suitable for the construction of dwellings or for residential conversion;]] [[Whereas the National Real Estate Company with the Regional Development Programme provides guidance on the realisation of social functions including residence;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the National Real Estate Company to implement an approach whereby its real estate, in cooperation with other governments and market parties, can contribute to housing and take place early, starting with Pampus, and inform the Chamber about it before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-616]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u472	In conclusion, Mrs Van Eijs will present the proposal on Pampus and Mr Nijboer on the Ministry of VROM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u473	Thank you. Then Mrs Beckerman, as next speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u474	Mr. Chairman. After such a debate, you get the feeling that it seems that we should postpone the housing crisis until after the elections. I heard the Minister say all kinds of phrases like: to see whether agreements need to be adjusted upwards, action perspective, look carefully, examine carefully, just make agreements about concrete achievements. A lot of vagueness, but actions are lacking. I therefore wonder whether there is any awareness of the depth of the housing crisis and how it was caused by political decisions. That is why the next motion, which is also very much in line with Mr Nijboer's motion on a new ministry of residence, a new ministry of VROM. Then make sure that before then, if there is, we really know what is wrong with the current system. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an independent and thorough analysis of the current housing crisis is lacking in all its facets;]] [[calls on the Government to have an independent committee of inquiry and to carry out a system analysis of current housing shortage and problems of affordability in the purchasing and rental sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Smeulders, Mr Nijboer, Mr Krol, Mr Van Esch and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-617]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u475	And then there was a toe-curious debate about what this debate is really about. Is it only necessary to build new buildings, or do we really need to intervene in that market and ensure affordability, but also where there is a failure with housing corporations, whose residents are getting hit hard? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Vestia has been in financial difficulties for years where tenants pay a high price;]] [[Whereas there are many complaints from tenants about late maintenance and high rental prices;]] [[calls on the Government to accelerate the take-over of Vestia residences by one or more housing corporations with the aim of improving maintenance and reducing rents to an average level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Smeulders, Mr Krol and Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-618]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u476	That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u477	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister started her first term with a joke: in fact, you have pretty much caught the Minister of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment, because the Secretary of State for the Environment has gotten Housing. I must say that I am always surprised who is in the cabinet business, because Minister Knops is also about building, but apparently not about housing shortage. Anyway, I don't care. I am asking my questions and I would like to answer them. At the same time, the Minister indicated that she did not really want to have a fundamental discussion about the Constitution and what it actually means to provide sufficient accommodation for everyone.................................................................................................................................................. And affordability is another debate. That's almost at the heart of the next motion. In fact, housing requires that you look at land-use planning, housing policy, affordability, environmental measures, etc. I don't have to tell the Minister anything about it to make sure that there is enough housing for everyone. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of housing in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, according to the Constitution, the promotion of adequate housing is the subject of public concern;]] [[Whereas there are major spatial and housing challenges ahead of us;]] [[expresses the wish that in a forthcoming cabinet the Minister for Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment should return,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-619]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u479	As I said, we could not get a better illustration of the need for this in this debate. My second motion concerns the need for corporations to be able to build more for middle income. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of housing;]] [[whereas middle incomes are difficult to find affordable housing;]] [[calls on the government to abolish market exploration for corporations so that they can build more easily for middle income;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Krol, Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Esch and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-620]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u480	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u481	Thank you, then we will proceed to Mr Azarkan. He has waived his second term. Then Mr Koerhuis. You have two minutes. Why don't you talk quick?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u482	I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the housing shortage in the Netherlands is high;]] [[noting that the province of Flevoland has the planning space for 100,000 additional dwellings, especially in Pampus, Warande, Oosterwold and around Dronten;]] [[Whereas resolving the housing shortage in the short term, but also in the medium term, remains an important task;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the province of Flevoland and the municipalities concerned, to identify the possibilities for large-scale housing, including the associated infrastructure/ov, facilities and nature, and to inform the Chamber before the end of the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is considerable pressure on the housing market;]] [[noting that about one third of recreational parks in the Netherlands do not have a tourist future and 10% of parks have safety and viability problems;]] [[noting that the existing system of issuing personal permits for persons who lived in a recreational home before 2003 is no longer up-to-date;]] [[Whereas part of this group living in a recreational home must have an additional address and this has an undesirable effect in view of the hustle and bustle on the housing market;]] [[Invites the Government to provide municipalities with the possibility of rapidly allowing permanent habitation of recreational homes from 2021 onwards, where:]] [[the scheme is updated to issue object-related permits for recreational homes built before 2019;]] [[recreational homes must comply with the building decision;]] [[no more stringent requirements are imposed on surrounding holdings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Koerhuis, Van Eijs, Ronnes and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-621]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-622]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u483	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need to increase housing production;]] [[noting that there is a shortage of housing plans;]] [[calls on the Government to set a planning and construction target per province;]] [[calls on the Government also to identify the more pressure to put on provinces that do not meet the planning and construction objectives and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-623]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u484	With regard to that last motion, I would like to refer to the debate on the interruption that I had with the Minister. I would also ask you to look at suggestions other than the one just mentioned in the debate on the interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u485	Thank you. Then let's move on. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u486	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The big debate on housing was not the big debate on housing. That was interesting, but it actually ended as a night candle. I am very sorry about that, so I submitted a request to the Registry for a debate on the housing crisis and on the affordability of living for tomorrow's settlement. I hope we can plan that soon. I see the Minister nodding. What I find hopeful... I see Mr Nijboer standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u487	Can we talk about the amount of housing, affordability and housing regulation in the debate that is being requested tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u488	I'd love to. We made that request, but it's still negotiable, with everyone. It's called the debate on the housing crisis and affordability. We thought the housing crisis is everything, but let's add the affordability, because otherwise we obviously shouldn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u489	It's all cheerful and hilarious at the end of the night, but I'm gonna keep it real business for a while. You announce that you will request a debate on the settlement tomorrow. The regulation will determine tomorrow whether that debate will take place and what the subject of that debate will be. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u490	Sure. I'm gonna take a step in the middle first. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked a few questions to which I do not think the cabinet has answered. In fact, a number of motions have just been adopted and statements have been made on the emergency button and transfer tax, of which it is still unclear to me why they have not been implemented. Can the Minister indicate that in the second term? I think it is rather hopeful that the Minister should indicate that there will probably be a letter within a month and we will have more information. I have the following question to the Minister. Why didn't it just say so in yesterday's letter? Now we all had to read a letter yesterday which I now think might as well not have been sent, because we are going to talk even more, when it seems that real measures are already coming. Can the Minister clarify why we couldn't talk about that today? Then I have a few suggestions for that letter that is coming up shortly, which I am now going to read out in the form of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a housing crisis;]] [[Whereas many properties offered for sale are bought by speculators, which means that start-ups hardly have a chance of an affordable new building;]] [[Whereas, for example, a residence obligation and or an increase in the transfer tax for speculators may prevent the purchase and subsequent rental of houses;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with concrete proposals to prevent speculators from buying homes suitable for start-ups by the 2021 budget at the latest, but this should also be done earlier,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Nijboer, Mr Krol, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Esch and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-624]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u491	In my view, I have indeed heard the Minister say that we will not be getting more information in a very long time. Of the points addressed in this motion, two motions have already been adopted by my hand. My question is, therefore, why this motion is now being tabled, when we know that Parliamentary motions have already been adopted and that the Minister is coming forward with a response to these motions in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u492	I think Mrs Dik-Faber actually answered that question herself in the first term, namely that she did not know why they are not being implemented. I really don't know that either. I see this as some kind of extra support from virtually the entire opposition here: please do it. I really hope this motion is superfluous. I also hope that the Minister will say: I am going to do it and I am going to hold the motion immediately, or I will withdraw the motion immediately, no problem at all. I'm afraid it might be necessary, but we're going to see it when the Minister responds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u493	Thank you. Then I'll keep looking. Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u494	Mr President, I have three motions for resolutions, so I am also going to start quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a large housing shortage in the Netherlands and that population growth forecasts have always been revised upwards in the past;]] [[Whereas a significant part of this question arises in the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region;]] [[Considering that in 2013 the Empire and the region agreed on the implementation of the Amsterdam-Almere-Markermeer Structural Vision, which includes many dwellings in the Almere Pampus planning area;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with all the parties concerned, to come forward with a plan for accelerated housing in the Almere Pampus planning area and the IJmeerconnection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are major housing shortages;]] [[noting that figures from the CPB show that a large part of the land in and around the built-up area is owned by municipalities;]] [[Whereas it is important to review the housing statement together with the mobility statement;]] [[Whereas there are still many locations where, for example, only one side of the railway is built;]] [[calls on the Government to examine with interested parties in the short term how much housing can be realised at such locations around the DVD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-625]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-626]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u495	And the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is considerable pressure on the housing market;]] [[noting that there are an estimated 55,000 persons living permanently in a recreational home in violation of the destination "recreation';]] [[having noted that, in addition to enforcement, the Cabinet has also appointed the search for solutions for people with the 2018-2020 Action Agenda;]] [[Whereas part of this group lives in a recreational home as an emergency option and risks becoming homeless under too strict enforcement;]] [[calls on the government to urge provinces and municipalities to use a human dimension in the enforcement of recreational homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Eijs, Koerhuis, Dik-Faber and Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-627]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u496	Mr. Chairman. This was then the big debate on housing. The Prime Minister wasn't there; he's already dropped out. And the people who are now waiting for a home to listen to the Minister's answer, what the hell should they not think? What exactly is going to change for them? I really don't know. We weren't allowed to discuss affordability, because the Minister didn't know about it at the moment. It's really too sad for words. Mr. Chairman. As I said in the first term, the Minister does nothing but talk, discuss and meet. Is that gonna change or improve? No, not at all. Last night we received a letter. The first rules state: the non-committal nature of the housing contract must be removed. That sounds very forceful in itself, but if you read the letter further and hear the Minister reply like that, little will come of it. The minister reads a list of what the cabinet is doing, but how it really is going to take control is still unclear. She makes a call to municipalities, talks to municipalities, makes agreements, appeals to parties on their responsibility and I don't know. There's gonna be acceleration teams. Too vague, too vague. That's why two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas much more affordable housing should be built;]] [[Whereas climate, environmental and nature rules, on the one hand, and incompetent, on the other hand, often left-wing municipalities hinder housing;]] [[noting that in its letter the Minister presented an "accelerating approach" which was vague;]] [[Notes that the Minister should stop unnecessary meetings, drink coffee, send vague letters and sit back;]] [[instructs the Minister finally to take real control and to ensure that sufficient housing is built up in all possible ways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-628]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u497	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that status holders are still allocated massively as a priority social housing;]] [[noting that status holders currently occupy more than 85,000 social housing units;]] [[says that these homes are from and for the Dutch;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the residence permits of the status holders and to ensure that the social housing released by them, as well as all other social housing units, is exclusively allocated to the Dutch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-629]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u498	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u499	Then we go on to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u500	Thank you, Madam President. I have two motions. Many motions have already been tabled in the last period concerning the abolition or reduction of the landlord's tax. Today it appeared once again that a majority of the Chamber feels that this is the case. This could also significantly boost the bad score of 60% of housing corporation plans realised. That is why this call again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of housing;]] [[Considering that housing corporations are best equipped to realize social housing and that they deserve as much support as possible in building it;]] [[Whereas since the introduction of the landlord levy, the construction of social housing has been reduced;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibilities of reducing the landlord levy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Esch, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-630]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u501	Second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Housing and Care Incentive Scheme (SZW) can now only be used by private individuals;]] [[Whereas there is a need for concept development for home-care combinations;]] [[calls on the Government to open up the Housing and Care Incentive Scheme to housing corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-631]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u502	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u503	Thank you, Mrs. Fat-Faber, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering the questions. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of homeless people in the Netherlands has risen to nearly 40,000;]] [[Whereas the creation of sufficient places for reception and housing is a joint responsibility of the government, local authorities and civil society organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the contribution that the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf and municipalities can make to societal challenges, such as reducing homelessness, e.g. by making available freed or unused real estate for the realisation of small-scale housing units or (temporary) social care, and to inform the Chamber about this for the budget treatment 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-632]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u505	The second motion is a little longer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Committee on the Future for care of the elderly (the Forest Committee) concludes that there is far too little construction and cultivation for the elderly, which means that there is not only a sub-optimal housing supply for the elderly, but also a barrier to the flow of housing markets, and that new forms of housing between the old home and nursing home can offer a solution;]] [[Considering that, according to the same committee, housing corporations wishing to create collective or clustered forms of housing for older people in the predominantly social housing sector are hampered by the current Housing Act, for example, for the creation and financing of common spaces and the allocation of group features;]] [[noting that the same committee also notes that excluding the landlord levy can be an important incentive to achieve new forms of housing for older people at a rapid pace;]] [[calls on the government to implement an enlightened regime in the Housing Act to provide housing corporations with the regulatory space to realize new forms of housing for the elderly;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into a discount or exemption from the landlord's tax for the purpose of establishing old-age residences and to inform the Court of Justice of this for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-633]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u506	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u507	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals also thinks after the debate: what did we finally hear at the end of this evening? The Minister says 'building, building, building' all the time, but in the end I do not think we hear any concrete new construction site. Not that the Party for Animals would necessarily want all these new construction sites, but we do want to know: where is this cabinet going? What construction sites are those? She says: then we should wait for the NOVI and the concrete plans that come into that NOVI. But, yeah, it's gonna wait a little bit. When's that gonna happen? When are we gonna hear about that? The Party for Animals is particularly concerned, because the minister says: "There are all new construction sites coming up. We are also looking at new construction sites." We think that is perhaps a worrying direction. The nitrogen crisis makes it clear that we need to invest more in our nature. The Party for Animals assumes that the cabinet will not build in present or future natural areas. I really want to have confirmed that this evening, because if we are going to build externally, this cannot mean that we are going to build in nature, nature reserves or future natural areas. I really want to hear a reaction from the cabinet. Then the Minister indicates that he has responded to buying out farmers because of the nitrogen crisis and the opportunities it offers. It has dealt with the nitrogen crisis, quite briefly, but not on the specific points we have mentioned. However, if the Minister feels that he is, we will come back to that at another time. What the Minister has not addressed is our specific question about the distribution centres, namely whether the Minister is prepared to look at the replacement of distribution centres by residential locations in response to the proposed urgency. Since she did not do so, we are tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a shortage of living space;]] [[noting that in recent years there has been a sharp increase in the construction of distribution centres which often occupy many tens of thousands of square metres of land;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the College of National Advisors "(X) XL-saturation - Less, more compact, more concentrated, more multifunctional';]] [[considers housing to be a priority over distribution centres;]] [[calls on the government to put an end to the numbing of the Dutch landscape,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-634]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u509	I have a very strange point of order, Mr President, but I am still making it. For I see here that Mr Jetten is making proposals in the area of living, maximising rent and tackling investors. I haven't heard that from either D66 or the Minister, who wasn't too keen to talk about affordability today. So I would like to give Mrs Van Eijs the opportunity to make the proposals made on TV by her group chairman here in the Chamber. I'm very curious about that. A third deadline, I shall see for myself, then, I would like to give Mrs Van Eijs the opportunity to make the proposals announced on TV while the debate on the House is being held here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u510	Mrs. Van Eijs is getting up. I'm giving her the opportunity to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u511	Mr. Chairman. We have seen the order of the debate as the shortage of housing. That's what my contribution was about. My contribution was about infrastructure, about faster housing building, about allowing more construction companies and so on. It seems to me that my group chairman may speak more broadly than just what I am saying here in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u512	That's how you responded. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u513	I am literally reading what Mr Jetten has just said. He has talked, among other things, about tackling investors. That is just what D66 is proposing on national television during this debate. It is strange that if I suggest that, I hear from the Minister, 'that is not what we are talking about' and that the D66 Chamber does not say anything about it. That's crazy, isn't it? That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u514	You've made your point. Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u515	I just want to say that I don't need a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u516	Thank you. We're not gonna do that, because I'm gonna suspend now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u517	The Minister is back and I am happy to give her the floor for the appreciation of the motions and any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am now about ten hours, ten and a half hours continuous with your Chamber in debate. However, I regret the misunderstanding surrounding the order of this debate. That's annoying for you all, for me too. We have a lot of important questions to answer with each other, and some of our colleagues were set up and some were not. I would very much like to discuss this other subject with you. So if there is a request for a debate, I will certainly prepare myself for that. Then there will be a letter. I would therefore like to ask: let us ensure that this debate is scheduled after that letter is received. We hope to be able to send that letter about March. Then, on the contrary, we are better prepared with the answer to a number of motions in order to be able to conduct that debate properly. So I would very much like to discuss this with you. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. First, Mr Krol's motion. Oh, no, there were questions from Mr Krol. I was gonna answer that first. The percentage of new buildings for the elderly has been requested. The Task Force Wonen een Zorg asks municipalities to present their tasks and to make concrete performance agreements before the end of 2021. I would also ask the regions to make concrete the task of housing for the elderly. By amending the Housing Act, I make the construction of older people's housing easier. But we do not want to establish a percentage of old people's housing at central level, because it is too high for one person and too little for the other. So the only thing you can actually do is match the local need. That must be done with that. Then the possibility of tiny houses or a removal premium. An investment in older homes is an investment in flow. I've already announced that I'm doing research into making better use of the stock. I will also take Mr Krol's suggestion into account. By the way, 100,000 homes are worth €10,000. So we're talking about large amounts of money soon. I would like to give that to Mr Krol. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 613 by Mr Ronnes and Mrs Dik-Faber, I give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 614 by Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis will also be judged Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 615 by Mr Ronnes. I will talk to Utrecht on 2 April. So I would actually ask Mr Ronnes to hold this motion until that discussion has taken place. Then he'll be able to judge where we stand with that. Otherwise, I'd have to dissuade her right now. But I think holding on right now is just the right way. I want to take the step of the conversation first. I think that might also be a reason. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u519	One moment, Mr. Ronnes has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u520	The intention of this motion is that no irreversible steps should be taken in the meantime. I can hold her until then, but then she misses her goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u521	No, that motion you asked me to make is yesterday's, I think, if it's still Wednesday now. That means, of course, I'll get to work soon. We already have an appointment. On 2 April we will talk to Utrecht. It does not seem to me that irreversible steps would be taken so quickly. We are going to talk to Utrecht, so I would ask you to hold that motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u522	I'll think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u523	So far, the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u524	The motion in part No. 616 I give judgment Chamber. On the motion in part No. 617 on a system survey was also asked a question. We're doing all kinds of investigations, and we'd also like to get to work, so I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Beckerman's 618 is about Vestia. Vestia has to act like a good landlord. In the case of complaints, tenants can of course turn to the complaints committee, but the Authority also monitors housing corporations. We also discuss complaints with aldermen, so we keep the pressure on them in that way. In certain municipalities, Vestia can also contribute little due to the restoration status. It's really going on right now. Parties are on the table every week. We should not go through that process now, but there is real attention to the concerns that Mrs Beckerman calls. In the present form, I must discourage the motion, but there is really a lot of work being done to solve it. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 619. That's a very interesting one, but it's a statement from the Chamber, so I don't really think it's appropriate for me to judge that motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 620 by Mr Nijboer. There is a decision in front of your Room to replace the market test with a simpler market exploration. In the debate on 12 December, after questions, I also promised to send a letter in the first quarter on how this exploration works in practice. I would therefore ask Mr Nijboer to hold this motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u525	Mr. Nijboer gets up and comes to tell us what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u526	The motion is designed precisely not to introduce this market exploration either, because that is yet another obstacle for housing corporations. Just get rid of the market test, period, instead of coming up with another market survey. That's the purpose of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u527	Sounds like you're not gonna hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u528	No, because that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u529	But I think it is also useful in itself to learn about the experience before deciding whether simplification or abolition makes sense. I think it would be useful, in both cases, to have that knowledge involved. That is why I would suggest to Mr Nijboer that we hold the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u530	I always include all the knowledge that comes to me, but I simply submit the motion, because I don't really want that whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u531	You've filed the motion and you won't hold her, I hear you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u532	That's why I'm not gonna arrest her, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u533	If she doesn't get pulled over, I'm gonna have to dissuade her right now. Because I have promised certain information. He's gonna be here. This does not prejudge the substance of the judgment; it has a procedural reason. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion by Mr Koerhuis, Mrs Van Eijs, Mr Ronnes and Mrs Dik-Faber for item 621. This one gets judgment room. Almere and Lelystad are part of the Housing Deal MRA. As a result, I am working with the region on the urbanisation strategy. In that I also want to make choices with the region for additional locations. However, we must look closely at the spatial conditions, in particular the accessibility and distance to work. I want to reach a decision by the end of the year. I'll take this motion with me. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Van Eijs' motion for a resolution on the granting of recreational residences. I could take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u534	I'll see if there's any objection. Well, look. I was too excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u535	No, no, no. I'd be glad to, not of that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u536	That's the fastest way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u537	But for the sake of clarity, if I may, Mr President, we have of course had a debate with each other, in particular about the fact that we believe that the regulation needs to be updated. So we don't want to leave it in general in the Environmental Act; we want it to go through under the Environmental Act, but then updated. If the motion is taken up with that in mind, then that is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u538	Under the Environmental Act, municipalities are given more opportunities to deviate quickly and flexibly from the environmental plan and to assign temporary functions to locations. A municipality can choose its own reference date and grant permits both object-related and personal. The current reference date for issuing a personal environmental permit of 2003 will therefore be deleted. So that's also a bit of actualization. In addition, there is more room for the municipalities to consider housing in the vicinity of companies. Since the Environment Act enters into force from 2021, the proposal of the members Koerhuis and Van Eijs becomes policy. That's why I can take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u539	That is exactly the thrust of the debate we have had before. The Minister now says even more explicitly: the current scheme for residential residences will lapse if the Environment Act enters into force. That's not the point. We want the scheme to be updated, so that municipalities do not feel the thresholds we experience and the municipalities we have spoken to also experience them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u540	Then here's what I'm gonna suggest. I would ask Mr Koerhuis to hold this motion for a moment, because I have also indicated that I want to talk about where those thresholds are, so that we can properly assess whether this motion requires other things on that point and what I think about it. Mr Koerhuis is actually saying to me: I mean something other than how you interpret it, because there are still problems, there are still thresholds that have to be removed. I'm gonna make sure we start talking to see where those thresholds are. I would also like to hear from Mr Koerhuis, who actually consists of these thresholds. Then we can look at what else is needed and I can also give a more detailed assessment of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u541	Are you holding the motion, Mr. Koerhuis? We're not going to do the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u542	A final word. I'd be happy to hold the motion. The Minister is coming with a letter. But then I would like to suggest that, for example, she will come forward with that letter before the end of March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u543	I think that should be possible. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u544	Okay, that's it. So you'll keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 623 by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Ronnes. I expect provinces to provide 130% planning capacity. It is also about speed and volume. I would like to quantify this in concrete objectives. We're gonna have a short-term conversation with delegates. The word "press to put on" is... Anyway, I think we agree on the main points. I address parties firmly on their responsibility and I also explore the legal possibilities to strengthen the governing role of the Empire if necessary. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'll give her judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Smeulders asked for measures on affordability. This is also the subject of some of the motions. In the letter to the State of the Housing Market in November, I mentioned that we will come with a letter in respect of start-ups, middle hire and social rental sectors, although we have already informed the Chamber about this. We think it's important that you know that; we have already said that start-ups have a fair chance, that we improve the position of middle-income households in the housing market, that we tackle excesses, that we also have an eye for local differences in the housing market, that we allow tailor-made work, that we look at the viability of neighbourhoods, that social housing is distributed fairly by appropriate rents and that we also look at affordability for households with the lowest incomes. But you know these general principles, and you were looking for when we come up with what these motions are asking for. I gave you an answer to that. The motion in part No. calls for concrete proposals to be made to the 2021 budget by 624. I would actually like to ask for this motion to be retained, because we are coming up with a letter which also refers to one of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u546	We've been waiting a long time. So I just want to put the motion to the vote. I think this is exactly in line with what D66 said today in Op1 and what the Christian Union has just said. I guess there's just a majority. Then we'll know for sure it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u547	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u548	But I think Mrs Dik-Faber was right to say that a motion has already been adopted, and I do not remember exactly when. But a Dik-Faber motion requesting a buy-back protection has been adopted. We'll take it with us. I have indicated when you can expect the letter about. In November 2019 it was indicated that we really want to move towards a coherent package, also because there are sometimes concerns about the accumulation or the impact of different measures on each other. I therefore reject the motion because a similar motion has already been adopted. This is a procedural reason to discourage the motion if it is put to the vote. But I would suggest to Mr Smeulders to hold her and just wait for the letter. It'll be there in about a month, Mr. Smeulders. Then we hope to give more clarity about this coherence. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the motion in part No. 625 by Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes on Almere Pampus. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it is really a call, 'find it out, including that O-connection', because, of course, we have to map out the cost of it properly, then I will give her judgment, Chamber. I see Mrs Van Eijs nodding. The seventh motion, tabled by Mrs Van Eijs, on housing locations around O.V. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u549	The 14th motion, in part No. 626, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u550	Yeah, excuse me. The motion in part No. 627 by Mrs Van Eijs and others is about the human measure in maintenance around recreational homes. Also judgment room. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the sixth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u551	The sixteenth, in part No. 628.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u552	Yes, Mr Kops' motion. If he deletes all the considerations, I can't agree with him at all, I'd give the motion judgment Chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her, because I can't agree with the considerations at all. I will only give it to Mr Kops for consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u553	So the motion has been dissuaded unless it's changed. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u554	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 629 by Mr Kops and Mr Wilders I must advise against. The cabinet has a strict but fair asylum policy. The motion doesn't leave room for that. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 630 by Mr Krol and others calls on the Government to explore the possibility of reducing the landlord's tax. This motion is therefore also unveiled. A motion was tabled later by Mrs Dik-Faber, who is looking specifically at housing for the elderly, or perhaps a solution could be found. As far as I am concerned, it is a little more careful in what can and cannot be done. I would therefore like to ask Mr Krol whether he wishes to continue this motion until the Ronnes motion investigation is in place. That is the long-term position of the corporations, and I think we should know them. That may be a reason for the parties to take note of that before they vote on this motion. I would therefore ask Mr Krol to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u555	And if he doesn't, the motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u556	Then she'll be dissuaded, yes. In his motion, Mr Krol asked for item No. 631 to open the Housing and Care Incentive Scheme to housing corporations. That's an arrangement from VWS. It is therefore not for me to say what this system should be opened up to. The scheme is intended for small-scale initiatives and therefore not for corporations. For the corporations, we made the 1 billion available through the landlord levy. It can also be used for residential and care initiatives. So if Mr Krol thinks that corporations should also have access to funds for housing and care initiatives, this is the way to do it. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the motion in part No. 632 asks Mrs Dik-Faber the government to identify what contribution the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf can make to reducing homelessness and so on. She specifically asks about the National Real Estate Company and therefore I cannot give an appreciation. That is the subject of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask if he can give an appreciation of the motion for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u557	Okay. Then we'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u558	Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Dik-Faber's motion on item No. 633. Mrs Dik-Faber asked the government to carry out an investigation into a reduction or exception, or at least to analyse it, and to inform the Court of Auditors of this. The Bos Committee has offered its report for consultation and will gather comments in the coming months, after which it will come forward with final recommendations. The Minister of VWS has indicated that recommendations that are in line with ongoing policy paths are involved in these pathways. Several proposals made by the Committee on the Housing Act may be involved in the amendment of the Housing Act following the evaluation. I expect to be able to send you this proposal for the summer. It will then be possible to assess whether this is also a mandatory regime. The motion can therefore be left to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u559	Okay, then the motion to part no. 634.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u560	Mrs Van Esch asks me in the motion for a resolution on item No. 634 to put an end to the numbing of the Dutch landscape. The next NOVI letter deals with the treatment of tranquilizer. I do not see Mrs Van Esch, but that answers her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u561	Mr Smeulders. About this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u562	No, about the previous one, in part No. 633. I think it is rather odd that Mrs Dik-Faber's motion on the landlord levy should be judged by Chamber, and that Mr Krol's motion, including on the landlord levy, says that we should wait for Mr Ronnes's investigation. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u563	But there is a difference. Mr Krol asked generically for a reduction, and that is why this motion always means less revenue. The question of whether there can be a discount or an exception in one way or another could also lead to a different distribution. That's the difference between the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u564	I'm gonna have to deny it anyway. I think it's different. I ask in my motion to explore the possibilities. That's not a crazy question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u565	But if by definition it is a reduction, that is the purpose of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u566	We're not going to do the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u567	Whether that's necessary will turn out to be. Perhaps that is necessary, but that is precisely why we are conducting the investigation on the basis of Mr Ronnes' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u568	Clear. And the last motion, in part no. 634? The petitioner's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u569	I would ask Mrs Van Esch to hold on to that motion, because we shall return to that in the NOVI letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u570	We'll see if she does or not. Otherwise, the motion is dissuaded, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u571	Otherwise, she's been dissuaded because we're still coming up with a letter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u572	Yeah, clear. Okay. That, I think, is what brought us to the end of this debate. I don't see anyone hesitating, so I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u573	We're going to vote on these motions on Tuesday 3 March... Oh, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u574	I have the judgment on the motion in part No. 634 not heard. I only heard the Minister say that Mrs Van Esch is gone, but I have not heard any judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-10.u575	That motion has been dissuaded. The Minister has asked her to hold the motion. If that doesn't happen, the advice is out of the question. I'll close the meeting and wish you all a good night.
