ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	We are already seeing the Minister ready to reply to the Chamber, and I am happy to give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr President, you are right: I am eager to begin. Let me begin by thanking the members of the Chamber for the comments and questions, but also for the broad support for the support packages we have always been able to obtain and have received from the Chamber. I would like to start with a few general comments on where we stand on the budget and how we see the future path. As far as I am concerned, the second part would be emergency measures. I should like to say a few words about the sectors and the debate on development cooperation. After that I have many different topics in the block "other." I will say a few words about the comments about the municipalities, the Tax Administration, the ODE and more. Many questions had the same contours. That's what I'm saying, Mr. Chairman. Think of the questions about the municipalities, for example. I am referring to many of the questions raised by the various Members. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first block. Many speakers have already referred to it, but it is good to point it out yourself. The budget for 2020 is, of course, totally different from what we had imagined, due to the corona crisis. The negotiations that preceded and led to the spring decision-making process, which ultimately led to the document that nourishes this debate, were also of a totally different order than in the past. This applies at least to the past I have experienced, but I think it applies for many years. That was precisely because we had these talks in the middle of the crisis. I've already said something about it publicly. Normally, that's one or more rounds with officials at the ministry. In this case, some of those executives weren't going to talk at all, because we decided with each other that there was really nothing extra to be desired, apart from all the emergency packages. Either we did it over the phone or through a video screen. It was really a surreal setting. Mr. Chairman. We have talked about it more often, but I would like to stress once again that we have rolled out these very massive emergency packages to keep the jobs of as many Dutch people as possible and to ensure that companies, small and large, can get through this very difficult and unprecedented phase as best they can. We are now fortunate to see that the economy is getting back on track. You can see the effect. I think we all see the effect the moment we're in shopping streets. But the blow was hard and heavy. The measures have a huge price tag. We all realize that; many questions were about it. I'm the first to acknowledge that nobody knows exactly what that account will look like. If you see all the different scenarios of the planning agency, if you see the IMF scenarios, if you see the Commission scenarios, then you have to be so honest that we all don't know exactly. We just don't know exactly how huge that blow is gonna be, but we're sure it's gonna be about dozens of billions. This has been unprecedented since the Second World War, both in terms of the economy and in terms of the hit that public finances get. I believe it was Mr Sneller who referred to that remarkable combination in recent history, but also when you look back for decades: without precedent a number of years of economic growth and a budget that was in order, followed by the year 2020 with a dip that is as unprecedented as it is. In this context, several Members have referred to this. It is therefore a good thing that we have put those buffers in place. Well, that certainly helped. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. That will also be the task for the future. Many speakers have referred to "how to proceed"? That's all gonna be in the millions note. Nor can I anticipate the August decision-making process. Of course, I can take the thoughts and suggestions under my arm. They'll be discussed, too. But maybe I can outline a few contours of how I look at it, without being able to make it quite clear. In addition, it should be noted that, to our regret, the economy, society, has proved to be more vulnerable than we might have hoped or thought. This is true of the flexible jobs which were found to be extremely difficult to cope with. In any case, this appears to be the case in some of the companies that rely heavily on leverage, on debt. I would immediately like to point out that this debt is also an engine for growth. So it's not absolute, but you do see a vulnerability there. The third vulnerability, which fortunately we have not yet come across, but which you have to acknowledge is that it is in the Dutch system, is the relatively high debt position of households, with a relatively small proportion of what we call in good Dutch disposable income high debts, also due to property ownership. Once again, we have not had any problems with this so far, but that was one of the factors that we have had so much trouble with in the previous crisis, because the housing market is, I believe, today I have to say 'people's housing' and the economy is so closely correlated. What are some of the building blocks that the cabinet sees in front of it? First of all, I would like to address those who have talked about a possible future aid package, which is really still a question of whether that package should be forthcoming and, if so, what it should look like. What we hope with each other is that little is needed because entrepreneurs are able to get back on their feet and find their way again over the next few months. Of course, we all hope so. The government's commitment is unabated, but it is not for nothing that Koolmees, Wiebes and I have always said that we should weigh that in the summer. Then let's see what's wise. We hope that nothing will be necessary, or that something will be needed for specific sectors rather than the whole package for everything and everyone. That's the first part we need to talk about in the summer. The second part that we will have to talk about is "in some form" reforms that relate to the vulnerabilities I have just mentioned. Of course there is much more to be said about that, because there are many other subjects in cycling. That is not, carefully said, without political controversy, but it seems to me to be a subject to discuss. And if the cabinet didn't already discuss it, I imagine that these topics will be put forward in the Financial Reviews by the members of your Chamber. The third issue is: should you invest and, if so, how? It is obvious not to fall from one moment to the next into a keynesian philosophy, because we know that there is criticism of it in literature, but also in practice. If you really think it's working, then you get cheated, for example, about the timeliness with which you can implement things and how focused you can do it. And so there are other vulnerabilities of such a model to articulate. At the same time, it is wise to see whether investments that you were already planning to make, and where that is also easy and you do not incur extra costs, cannot be brought forward. But I am straight away honest about that: it is not so easy to bring those investments where you would like them to think about the infrastructure, just because of the lead times. It's not like you have a button with which you can do a lot more on October 1st. But it makes sense to think about what you might bring forward. In the case of investment, of course, we are also talking about the investment fund. There were also a number of questions from Members. I repeat that Minister Wiebes and I intend to return to your Chamber on or something before Prince's Day. I hear more enthusiasm from some parties than I have heard at an earlier stage. I hope that holds. I would like to point out that Minister Wiebes and I have always said that the issues contained therein are good for earning power, and that this is much more about structural measures than about cyclical measures. Moreover, structural measures can, of course, help in a declining economic situation. But it's important, I think, to make that distinction. And we're gonna talk about that when we submit the plans. The last piece deals with public finances. In my view, it is obvious that these buffers should be rebuilt over a longer period, but we will have to discuss this with the cabinet. You have to note that the average crisis, I believe, is a year or seven waiting for it. So if you turn the film back to 2000, we've had 9/11, the dotcom crisis, the credit crisis, the euro crisis, and now we have the corona crisis. So I'd like to do just 20, 30 years ahead without encountering another crisis, but I don't think that's the case. So on the one hand, I think you really shouldn't fall into a rapid burden increase for citizens or a rabid cut across the entire rich budget. Then you'll get the treasury in order faster, but then you'll have a big collateral damage to the economy. But you're gonna have to rebuild that buffer sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	There is an interruption for you from Mr Nijboer, from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	I have a question about the Wopke-Wiebes fund, which will be clear on or around Prinsjesdag, for structural measures. The Labour Party has always been in favour of structural investment for education, for example; temporary money is of no use. But I'll ask the Cabinet if it realizes that there will be elections next year. So then there is actually another budget for three missionary months, I would say, because in March the elections will be. So how logical would it be to present large-scale plans in the last Millions of Cabinet notes? And I would like to tell the Minister not to do it before, because last year all the sums were in the newspaper, but the Millions note didn't say anything. So I hope this announcement is not a harbinger of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	The announcement of me is a reflection on the questions asked by the members of your Chamber. A few Members have asked questions, and some of the Members have raised a point of view which I would like to make, in my view, a positive attitude towards the investment fund. Of course, I'd like to embrace that, and that's why I responded to it. What might be good is to say something about the structural. It is not so much about structural investment in the sense of occasional versus structural. It was a question of turning structuralally against the economic cycle. That's the distinction I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	The previous Million Note mentioned 40 and 50 billion, at least not in the Million Note, but around it, as the amounts needed to invest on this fund. We haven't heard anything about that since there is a corona crisis, but the question is: is the Millions note or is it the time to announce another 40 or 50 billion in investment, for a cabinet that is now running, beginning next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	The honest answer is, of course, that we need to take that back with each other at that time. By the way, I never put those amounts in the paper. Nor have I ever made it a secret that, when asked, I indicated that I could imagine larger amounts if you were talking about a period of 20 or 30 years. But of course, as a cabinet, we have always said: we are now presenting the contours and we are coming before 1 April with the detailing of the fund and with the governance. We will then discuss this with the Chamber. I do not think anyone blames the cabinet for not only not being able to finish that round, but also for being extremely curious in timing. But I do experience increasing enthusiasm, also wider in society, to continue with it. In fact, I think I heard a few encouragements. Wiebes and I were already determined to go through with it, and we just see ourselves encouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	I am, of course, very curious about these proposals, because those 40 and 50 billion have really been mentioned in interviews by the Minister himself in newspapers. But I think it's a rather curious figure to invest so much money in the last year that you're still ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	Politically, I understand that, but we're gonna get a few things mixed up. What I said was that I didn't mention the amounts in the paper before Princess Day. There has been a number of things in the newspaper before Prince's Day, which I found extremely unhelpful. But that's how life is here. Then Prince's Day came, and then I explained it. I have also always said that all of this must always be subject to democratic control, and therefore also to the budgetary law of the Chamber. So to reassure you: in all variants the Chamber will be involved. By the way, it is obvious to build in intermediate steps, especially if you are talking about a very long period of time with a lot of money. So I very much agree with Mr Nijboer. Furthermore, my proposal would be quite frankly, Mr President, to do so on or around Princess Day, because we are now spending quite a lot of time on something that we do not have the contours in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	I'd like to go back to the business package. I hope, of course, like the Minister, that measures will no longer be needed. I think there will be a need for some more in specific situations. But I'm not really getting a clue from the Minister as to what bottlenecks he's still seeing. And there are comments in the letter that the cabinet wants to focus the package on adjusting the economy. I can't really see how he's going to shape that now either. I would like the Minister to be more specific about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	That is, of course, exactly what the Cabinet has to do in August. We have deliberately chosen to extend the package from three to four months, because we thought it wise not to have to decide relatively quickly, again mid-summer, with a little more, but still relatively limited information. So we took more time for that. And I think all the cabinet members involved have always said: let's see what is needed in the next phase. Why is that so important? Because on the one hand you see very large differences between sectors. There are sectors which, perhaps three months ago, were completely destroyed, and which are now standing up. I was eating in a restaurant the other day and I asked the entrepreneur: how are you? To be honest, I constantly ask every entrepreneur I meet, because I am also interested in whether the arrangements are in place, whether they work and how they work. Then the entrepreneur said: it's bizarre, but I have more sales now than I had last year at this time, but it's also true that two months ago I didn't deserve anything at all. That's the first thing you see: there are big differences between sectors. Fortunately, there are also sectors that are getting back on track. But there are also large differences between companies within sectors. 'Cause think on one side of that restaurant I just mentioned, and think on the other side of a discotheque. That restaurant really would have found its way upstairs. Is that gonna stick? I don't give any guarantees, but it looked good; now I'm talking to the entrepreneur. But what about the discotheque over there on the corner of the street? It's going, I think, to a really difficult phase. 'Cause what are you doing in a discotheque? You dance and you're close. Anyone who has ever been in the Escape or in any discotheque knows that there are hundreds, sometimes thousands of people hut on top of each other. I see some members shaking their heads because they were born in a different time frame than I do, but I can highly recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	There you go. Mrs. De Vries, have you been there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	I can see it all in my head: the minister in the Escape.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	It's about times long gone, Mr. Chairman. And the RoXY, and all that, but I'm all a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	Well, this is gonna be advertising, of course. There is indeed a direction indicated by the cabinet. For example, it is said that the package should focus on the adjustment of the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u18	I don't have a clear picture of what's meant there. Are we talking about the little bar where it's never gonna be five feet? Does it have to adapt? Is there something else you need to do there? Is that what we're talking about? Or is there anything else meant to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u19	In this summer, you will have to look at which sectors do not really need help anymore. I also know most entrepreneurs as people who want to do it most without the government. Entrepreneurs who still have some damage, but have arrived again let's say 90% or 95% of the turnover, I think are typically inclined to think: go ahead with the goat, we're going back to work now and we're going to see if we can just get back to work with our people by doing sensible business. But there are also branches of sport where you can imagine that companies are just a much longer stage in a very problematic situation, so not for example another three months, but perhaps a year and a half, depending on when a vaccine comes. However, I do not want to anticipate this too much either. Think, for example, of this discotheque, but also of sectors related to international passenger transport. We will talk about KLM this evening, but there are of course more parties in this sector. Think, for example, of forms of entertainment, such as performing arts. Of course, we have taken a lot of measures in the relaxation process, but we are not yet at the level of a stadium with 30,000 to 40,000 people in it. I think you should think about that. As far as I am concerned, the recipe should look really different than it has been so far. You should look more specific, and then maybe there's no point in limiting you in time and saying: in three months we'll see each other again. On the last point, you also have to be honest: there are of course companies that will eventually fall over and that simply because of changing circumstances no longer have a fruitful business model. That's very uncomfortable, but that's part of the transition we're going through together. We all hope as little as possible, but it is part of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u20	There is another question for you from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u21	Part of the Minister's analysis appeals to me: there are vulnerabilities in the economy, the flexible labour market, more security, people's debts, there are unorthodox plans, such as the Christian Union, and debt. As far as I am concerned, it will be an ambitious budget, even when it comes to investment. Then we'll see how the majorities come about. What is missing, and what I think is important, is that the Netherlands is so poor in education and retraining. We are seeing unemployment rising, we are seeing the shift in sectors, and I think we should do more about it. Of course, this has something to do with how our labour market has been shaped, but that is also a structural approach. We will have to tackle this problem in the autumn, and then Koolmees' 50 million is actually too little. I think that's mainly because we don't know how to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u22	I would like to mention two points of light, of which Mr Snels himself mentioned the first. Money has been made available again, on top of the R&D money he knows and which we know are available, although we also see that there are limitations, especially in the sense of: do you put it in the people or do you put it mainly in the people in your own sector? We'll recognize that. The first bright spot is that we have seen it and have made money available for it. The second point of light is that, in my view, Minister Koolmees is very effective in his dialogue with the polder. It sometimes takes longer than he wants, but he is generally very effective at it. He is also in conversation with the polder on this subject. I recognize the point of education, but the cabinet also recognizes it more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u23	Sure, I think we've been talking about this for about 30 years, about these R&D funds and why nothing is happening. We'll see what the cabinet comes up with. It's important, though. The second point is youth unemployment: school leavers entering the labour market. There too, you must prevent it from becoming a lost generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u24	I'm gonna stop you right now. You have made a rather extensive contribution in the first period, in which these points have been raised. I think the Minister will answer your questions later. Indeed, if we do our whole contribution again in interruptions, then I cannot get the debate ready in time for another major debate, and we only have two days before the debates. If your first-term questions are not answered by the Minister, I am happy to see you here. Otherwise we will have a situation in which everyone in interruptions repeats an entire period of time, and I simply do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u25	I certainly didn't mean to. But the Minister gave a strategy for the autumn, and I think there are a number of accents in it. That was the point of my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u26	I heard the point. I cannot yet say how, but that youth unemployment gets a place in the cabinet's plans speaks for itself. Mr. Chairman. I was almost finished with the sketch before Mr Nijboer interrupted me. I was talking about public finances. I told you, take a longer time for that. I also said that the burden burden on citizens seems unwise to me at the moment, because you really need to look at the wider importance of the economy. I would just like to say to financial spokesmen that there is another point that I do not see you solve in the short term, but on which you have to be honest. We have seen more often with each other, and that remains true, when you look at the whole of the rich budget, you see that it is increasingly dominated by the budgets of two ministries, namely VWS and SZW. Within SZW, this is mainly the pension expenditure. I think we all recognise very much of the inevitability of that expenditure directly. We have also seen the enormous added value of having such excellent public health as we have. The fact that, after Switzerland, I believe, we have relatively the richest elderly in Europe is also partly the result of the first, second and third pillar system. But we will also have to think about how to ensure that there is room within that budget too, in the long term, for the other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u27	In the story I miss a bit of what I was talking about, namely the lack of demand, the consumption that has collapsed hugely, which is still the case. Everyone thought, "My company can open up again. The lockdown is gone again." This applies to many restaurants and hairdressers. Yesterday I was at the hairdresser, who said...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u28	But he didn't do much. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u29	Shh!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u30	I can go back. The barber said to me, it's not like the old days. He sensed a certain fear among people to go to the hairdresser, to the restaurant and you name it. The question I asked in the first term is: how is the Minister going to stimulate and seduce people to go out and spend money again? We have also seen in the last two months that there has never been so much savings in the Netherlands: 13.2 billion!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr Van Dijck is, of course, quite right about that last point. He's absolutely right about that. You can see that saving has gone on tremendously. That's not crazy, by the way. After all, people kept their income, but could hardly get out of their homes. You see two things. There is a lot more online shopping. We may all know that a bit from the domestic situation, if not from ourselves, or from our roommates. The second is that, of course, much less money has been spent in the shopping streets. So where's that money going? That goes in the savings, in the bank account, among other things because people are worried, but also because they just didn't have the opportunity to spend it. So I very much agree with that point. Mr Van Dijck also spoke of encouraging. You're gonna have to see what works there, too. We must also, I think, try to prevent all of us, with our own political preferences, from explaining that the plans we actually had are now, after the crisis, all that is needed. That is sometimes the tendency in politics. Were we already in charge of major incentive programmes before this? Well, then it's extra true because of the corona crisis. Were we in favour of reducing the burden before this? Then it's extra true now. Were we before for a whole different distribution of the income house? Now it's extra true. With permission, if only the answer were that simple. I am not saying that to Mr Van Dijck, but more generally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u32	Of course, you can somehow stimulate sectors that are struggling by seducing people to spend money there. For example, Belgium gives everyone a check of €300, to be spent in the museum, or in the art sector, or in the catering industry. The Germans are throwing down the VAT. The Belgians are throwing down the VAT on catering. In other words, they stimulate the catering industry, so that these companies do not fall down, go bankrupt or send people home. And they do that through an incentive towards consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u33	That was your first-term question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u34	Of course, the Minister can think about these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u35	I couldn't agree more. I promise Mr Van Dijck that I will not tell Mr Wilders that Mr Van Dijck is enthusiastic about the art sector. But about his examples: that must work. Well, then it's got to have an effect. You must also be so honest as to note that not everything that countries have tried in the past has always worked. Think, for example, of the discussion we have had before about transfer tax. It's been lowered before. The impact of this has been much less than we had hoped for in the previous crisis. With that German VAT plan, apart from all the implementation problems that you would have in the Netherlands, the Secretary of State has said a bit about that too.......................................................................................................................................................................................... The cabinet is really so pragmatic to look at it very seriously, if we think it works. Unfortunately, not everything works. Mr Slootweg asked if I wanted to look at the weathering of private buffers. Absolutely. I see a real vulnerability there. There, of course, you have another complicated assignment. On the one hand, you don't want to discourage what you see and what you understand. Maybe that's a good idea for individuals, too. For some people it's good to build buffers. The other side is: if the money goes into the piggy bank, it doesn't end up in the shopping street. Mrs De Vries asked once again not to cut back. Others were excited about her comment. I think I just answered that question. Mrs De Vries also asked how we would ensure that the postponement of payment would not eventually become a postponement of execution for companies. By far the most important thing that can happen for entrepreneurs is that the economy is going to turn again. In the end, that's far more important than anything we do from the government. However, in the recipe for what may still be needed, I would like to repeat that, of course, there may still be a need to look again at taxation and the other regulations. Mr Van Dijck also asked how we are going to repay it all. With regard to longer-term public finances, I think. Is that 15 to 20 years or a little shorter or longer? That's what we need to look at. In this context, I would like to remind you that last year we paid 14 billion into the treasury at a time when we were able to reduce the burden and significantly increase expenditure. So with a couple of years like that, you've earned a whole piece of the account back. If you get good economic years, it could go fast. Mrs De Vries and I also think Mr Stoffer said that the debt was less than 50% and asked if I could clarify the estimates. I said it earlier, when you see how the estimates of very sensible institutions differ, you just have to be so honest to see that nobody really knows. Mr Stoffer asked what this does with the shelf life. The shelf life has already fluctuated considerably in this cabinet period. According to the latter, it had improved considerably again, interestingly enough. After all, we had done a lot of extra spending. This also had to do with forecasts of the growth of the population itself. I expect that the shelf life has gotten quite a pinch, but I don't know, because the planning agency is doing that; we are not doing that ourselves. The planning agency is expected to present an analysis of sustainability later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Van Dijck has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u37	Well, not about this. My point was very quickly crossed on how we are going to repay all this later: the deferred taxes, the deferred repayments, the deferred rents and so on. Was that the answer to this point, or are you going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u38	No, let me do it right now. I understood that it was about public finances. So that's what my answer was. How are entrepreneurs going to repay the deferred tax claim? In addition, we will simply have to look at what is sensible and reasonable. If you see that a sector is actually getting back on its feet and could be in serious trouble because the tax deferral is due to expire at that very moment, then we are obviously going to come up with a ruse for that. I think that's our assignment. At the same time, I can imagine that there are sectors where there is no longer any mention of this at all. So if Mr Van Dijck asked me if I had the will to look into it, the answer is absolutely. But I don't want to pin myself on what exactly for whom. I think that's just a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u39	I was talking about postponing execution. That delay is of course nice in the panic mode we were in: what is corona going to do; postpone everything. But there will of course be a moment in the autumn when banks say: okay, now you have to go relieve again. There comes a time when landlords say: okay, now you have to pay the whole rent again and also the rent I have advanced you or postponed, you have to pay retroactively. If all this comes together and if the Tax Administration comes up with a thick blue envelope, I'm afraid the companies are going to fall over, go bankrupt and still send people home. So I ask this Minister whether he can come up with an exit plan with the financial sector, the real estate sector and the Tax Administration to ensure that this does not end up as a reservoir and a millstone around the neck of the entrepreneurs, which means that they will fall over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u40	I would like to say three things about this. One: we are absolutely going to see what is reasonable in that next phase, because it must not push companies that just scribble up, of course, back to the ground. I fully agree with that. The second point is that we should not be under any illusions. There are also companies that will simply go bankrupt. Everything they have to repay will possibly play a role in that. But that will be much more about how the situation might have been, but also about how Corona may have made that situation worse. So you just have to be real about that: companies will just fall down. The third point I mentioned just now is that I think you will also have to look at sectors. There will really be companies that are completely above Jan and there will be companies that are still incredibly difficult. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked if he could come back to Prinsjesdag on everything we have discussed now. Yeah, absolutely. We must also find out whether this is the time when the various parliamentary groups feel that the cabinet has done so properly. There is no doubt that we will have another discussion about this. So that's what we're gonna do at Prince's Day. I've had the first block with this. We've done a lot already. I have a few things to say about the emergency measures. I have responded to the questions of the VVD, the PVV, GroenLinks, the CDA and the SP about how we now proceed to the second emergency package. Mr Nijboer said that profit taxes are now decreasing. I think he was referring in particular to the Vpb. Indeed, these tax revenues are very cyclically dependent. In my opinion, his concern was whether there was a loss relief that the PvdA group would not really want. The picture now is that the effect of corona simply leads to a halving of Vpb revenues. In the past, however, this revenue has surprised us in a positive way. By the way, this halving of Vpb revenues is similar to what we saw in 2009; we checked that too. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about the flex regime, the TOFA, and the period covered by it. The duration of that allowance corresponds to the minimum duration of the WW three months. Mr Van Dijck, who has asked a lot of questions, asked me how I would direct bank lending. He wants a 100% state guarantee if necessary. We've rigged and expanded a lot of arrangements. For example, tens of billions have been made available quickly and accurately by banks. I think it's good that banks continue to do so. However, I would point out that I think it is important to ask banks on the one hand to see what is reasonable, but on the other hand, precisely because we do not want to worry about the financial position of banks, to ensure that we do not sit on top of those banks in such a way that they may have a problem with their buffers in the future and that we will be hit by the rain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u41	I hope that the Minister will also look at that corona monitor from the Dutch Banking Association. Then you see that 150,000 companies have been helped, which they are very proud of. If you look a little further, you can see that 4,300 companies have received a loan with a government guarantee. So out of the 150,000 companies, it's only 4,300 companies where it's 650 million. So with these corona credits, it doesn't work the way we do it now. I also hear from companies that say: we're just getting zero on the record, they're asking for liquidity projections and profit figures from last year when I didn't even exist. It's all bears on the road not to give corona credit. So we shouldn't put that in the banks. We have to put it with someone else or we have to give a 100% guarantee, what the Germans and the Swiss do. We need to deal with these corona credits. Now it sounds fun for the stage, in the sense of "Look at us being generous" but it doesn't work and businesses have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u42	My perception is really different. I have also seen how much EZK's two directors have done in this regard and, to a lesser extent, the Ministry of Finance itself. As far as those amounts are concerned, we are going to go up to 95% for the special appropriations. Then Mr Van Dijck can say that this is not the 100% of another country, but there are also differences in the arrangements between those countries. So I think we've done everything we can to facilitate healthy businesses in this way. And really, it's about tens of billions. I also noticed at the beginning that there were entrepreneurs asking if it could be done a bit faster, but my impression is that we have made a huge catch-up over the last few months on that point and that we have this problem to a large extent behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u43	This corona monitor is from 12 June and it's really something banks are proud of: look at us doing good for consumers and for businesses. But those loans with government guarantees do not work in practice and that is mainly due to an article that means: if you ask for a loan from the bank and the bank says you don't want to give it, then you may be eligible for a loan with government guarantee but then you still have to meet all kinds of conditions, such as being healthy and having your refund capacity. In other words, under the line, you just get to hear no. With regard to the appropriations referred to by the Minister, the CFC appropriations by 95%, 50% of them are rejected. Those are small credits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u44	Reality is really different. We all saw that because we all had entrepreneurs at the door at the beginning of the corona crisis. I think that we have taken these concerns very seriously, and that is precisely why we have adapted some of them and have therefore had a very intensive discussion with the banks. Mr Snels asked me something he actually asked me at least once a week, namely whether those billions would soon be spent efficiently and effectively. He knows my answer to that, too. That didn't stop him from asking again, so I'll just give you the brief summary. We're doing our best, but we're running this route at high speed. So I am the first to acknowledge that there will really be something about efficiency in the future. See also the differences between emergency package 1 and emergency package 2. Mrs De Vries has said that guarantees are not without risk and has asked what is being done to mitigate that risk. Of course, we look closely at that with every arrangement. However, you will immediately find yourself in the debate I just had with Mr Van Dijck: the higher you set the guarantee, the more likely you will be given a piece of the account. I said yesterday at the AO that I remember very well the moments when at least Mr Slootweg, and in my view Mr Nijboer and Mrs De Vries, said to me: can it not be less with all these guarantee schemes? No, that wasn't yesterday, that was the day before yesterday. At that time, I promised to take care of that intensively. That went fairly well until about three months ago. Mr Slootweg asked about the children's bonus in Germany. I understand his interest in this subject, but I must say that the whole system of schemes in Germany, especially with child benefit, the child-related budget and the child-care allowance... I heard something, Mr. Chairman, but I didn't understand. But we have really good facilities for children. That is why we do not think that such a children's bonus is appropriate, precisely because we are doing a lot towards low and middle-income families.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u45	It was actually an example. I'm more concerned with the following. We've had package two. We're about to go to some sort of stability around Prince's Day, I think. I also heard the Minister say: we are going to see what is needed for the various sectors. Then I think you're looking very much at what you can do to keep those jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u47	I made another point. I notice that flex workers and families are becoming increasingly involved... I mentioned that kids' bonus. Are we taking into account the expenditure of families who suddenly notice that jobs are falling out, and what are we going to do about it? Is that gonna get an extra spot?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u48	Yeah, absolutely. Of course we'll have to look into that. Of course, every year in the summer, we look very closely at the so-called purchasing power plates.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I do not know of any other country in which purchasing power cards are a national sport for politicians, but we do. That is not wrong, by the way. Of course, you're going to have some more discussions about that now. You're also gonna have the discussion about what's hiding behind those quartiles, or whatever they are, sitting in those states. What does that mean for people? Is there an extra assignment or not? And, if so, how do you do that intelligently? I very much agree with that. We're definitely gonna take that. I'll tell you without making any specific promises, because I'd think that was a little gratuitous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u49	You're right. The story was that in the media and in the letters I only got the idea that we were trying to solve it with automatic stabilisers. But the Minister actually says: we look, like every year, just what it takes to get a nice, balanced record. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u50	Yeah, absolutely. To be honest, we will take all the facets: how are families, with individuals, with companies, small and large? Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Nijboer asked about the relationship between culture and ornamental cultivation. I really say to him and to others that we have always tried to see what kind of arrangement is needed. Many of these discussions are not necessarily ready. I just mentioned all the performing arts as something you might imagine it's a sector that's been in trouble for longer. Then you're gonna have to act on that, too. And don't forget, you didn't qualify for the ornamental farming scheme until you lost 30% of your sales, I'm just gonna say it out of my head. So that was more than the NOW. In the meantime, it has also become clear that hundreds of millions less of this scheme is being used than thought. That means that we simply did not meet these criteria, and then there will be no money. Mr Alkaya asked about the investment fund. I think I answered all that. I have dealt with Mr Nijboer's question on guarantees. Mr Nijboer reminded me once again that the Labour Party Group is still not enthusiastic about the tax on profits. No, I have to put it this way: about the loss of profits tax. They're excited about the income tax, so I'm gonna straighten that out right away. I'm not ruling out that he'd even be excited about raising the profit tax. I know the views of the various groups, but it is up to the Cabinet to look at the revenue and expenditure in August and then to ensure majorities for the Tax Plan and the budget. I did, however, taste the hint that the cabinet should be able to interest 76 and 38 members of the States-General, spread over two Chambers. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u51	Will the Minister come back to my question on the motion on incentives and the fund? Otherwise, I'll be able to read it to you. It is a motion of 12 March, which states: believes that plans should be put in place to stimulate the economy when there is a risk of loss of demand and job losses; calls on the Government to draw up, in the short term, possible incentives to be used when the economic situation so requires and to share them with the Chamber. This motion was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u52	I had hoped to have addressed that in the contours I outlined for August. What's the point of doing in August? See if there's anything else that needs support, and if so, what. See what is sensible and politically appropriate or feasible in the area of reform, especially with regard to vulnerabilities. See if you should invest and if so, how you should deal with it. Determining how to deal with public finances, because you're going to have to deal with them sometime. We're all gonna do those things. This is gonna have to get a place in it, too. So we will certainly come back to that. But we also need to be realistic: the chances that this will be fully reflected in the philosophy that the Socialist Party supports on this point seem to me to be small.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u53	I have not fully put the philosophy of the Socialist Party in this motion; perhaps some. But all parties voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u54	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u55	It does not say that something should be done. It says: "Believes that plans should be ready when they are needed." Augustus is something for the cabinet; I realize that. But it also says, "Share with the Chamber." So this cannot be the implementation the Minister gives to this motion. In any case, I expect a number of possible measures, which he then shares with the Chamber. That's what the motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u56	I think the motion has been given a ruling in Chamber, and so we are going to carry it out. But I am trying to point out to Mr Alkaya where that motion lies in the process. It is then up to the Chamber, to Mr Alkaya and others, to give an opinion on the way in which the cabinet handled that motion. But we haven't forgotten that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u57	A brief word, and then Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u58	Yeah, a short word. I conclude that it cannot be that after August, towards Prinsjesdag, we get something that says: we have looked at it for a moment and it does not seem to be necessary. Because the motion specifically calls for action because we now see that it is necessary. I'm afraid there's a threat of a fallout. Several parties have drawn attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u59	Yeah, but you're gonna have to put something next to that, in addition to that motion, which we didn't give Chamber of Judgement for nothing. You'll have to decide what works in the summer. That is a substantive weighting, and that will then be done because that is the way it is also a political weighting in politics. So I'm gonna have to put that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u60	I do not know if the Minister is finished with his story about the investment fund, but I had asked two factual questions. The first was about the process now, how it goes with the selection and with cooperation with the other governments. The second question was what the corona crisis teaches us about the priorities that were included in the investment fund before the crisis came, because there would be no reason to reconsider which investments should be eligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think I have answered both questions, although I did not mention Mr Van Otterloo by name; he is right. As far as the process is concerned, I have said that the enthusiasm of the cabinet is unabated. My cautious observation is that the interest, also wider in the Chamber, is growing. That seems potentially good news to me, but let us first see if the plans will be able to pass the test of criticism. So I think I have answered the question about the route. This means that also the governance is the "control" in good Dutch how we have anchored that you do the right things and not also drive all kinds of other hobbies, how you comply with the system of democratic control and, of course, the budget law must all be included. We will also drive out on or around Prince's Day and share it with the Chamber. As far as this scope is concerned, I would like to refer in particular to what was previously contained in the Millions' Note and what was previously stated in the growth letter. For there it is crystal clear that it is about a broad palette but also not about everything, what it is about knowledge development, about infrastructure, about innovation and about R&D. It has been emphasized that all of this must be about, even domestically, a twenty-one-century economy within the framework of Paris and not about what I believe is the example that Wiebes often gives to rebuild a petrochemical cluster in Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u62	No, I wasn't interested in that either. Even in the growth letter, we found that there was a rather narrow approach, so there was little room to see how the real power of people could be used and also how care could be relieved by making a number of investments. The need to relieve the burden of care has now only increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u63	I am going to say one thing now, to prepare us for the disappointment that may still come. That investment fund was never thought to be the solution to all our problems. I know politics well enough to know that the need to try to park their own problems in it is almost unprecedented. Politically, I fully understand that, because why would you let go of such an opportunity? The cabinet has chosen precisely to use the normal state budget for the normal affairs and specific expenditures, which are of a particular nature, and you have also looked at what the social added value in those categories is to do there. This is how it is described in the Prince's Daypieces and how it is described in the Growing Letter, but I am not making any illusions. When we have a debate on this, part of this Chamber is going to say that it is absolutely essential that we stick to these picket posts and others may well complain that their own wishes do not come back sufficiently. No illusions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u64	Very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u65	I do not know if the Minister had the illusion that I wanted to put everything into it, but I was more concerned with a fundamental approach, namely that in the growth letter too little attention is paid to the power of people and too much to all kinds of technology that will have to be used by people. But the question is: to what end? That's what my comment was about. What does the corona crisis teach us about the needs of society? Questions such as whether lifelong learning should now be taken out of this budget or from another budget will be resolved in the budget, if we can get the cabinet to side with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u66	I'm also in favour of a holistic approach. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have done a lot of things in the category of measures. Mrs De Vries asked about the care premiums. That is something that has to come back in August; I will have to understand how the development is there. By the way, I expect you to get all kinds of opposite movements in care, from catching up, but also treatments that you just never see again because with that knee or that just went a lot better than you thought. All kinds of family visits that just never come back because they are no longer necessary. And, of course, catch-up growth and, once again, let's be very honest about that too, I have often said this to the Chamber: really dull medical misery when it comes to the medical opportunity costs of corona. People who aren't in the statistics yet, with all kinds of miserable cancers. We know of these statistics that I believe 3,000 cancer cases were diagnosed in the Netherlands per week; that has decreased at some point to 2,500 or 2,000. Of course, those people didn't get sick, those people weren't seen by the doctor. There is a huge delay in this and those people come back with potentially spread-out misery. The same applies to people with cardiovascular diseases. The same applies to people with all kinds of chronic misery. We know from pharmacists that in the first few weeks of the year, now, fortunately, it was no longer such a pile of medicines in those pharmacies. That is also the effect: enormous damage in the field of public health because people have not been diagnosed, have not been treated, or have not dared to go to the doctor or the pharmacist. We'll see exactly how those effects work out. I am sure we will talk about that as well. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about the appreciation for care workers and community care. I think a lot has been said about this with the US Secretary of State. A lot has also been said about the bonus. I don't think I have anything to add to that. Mr Snels asked about vulnerable sectors. I think I answered that question, too. Mr Nijboer talked about KLM on one side and the tenants on the other. He too will have followed the debate in the Upper Chamber with interest. But I think he forgives me for not being able to do anything about that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u67	Mr Nijboer does not agree, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mr Nijboer thinks I'm going to take care of that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u69	I'll give him the floor. Here he comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u70	What the Minister can do very specifically is this. There was an arrangement for building more social housing. It was transferred within three months. It was intended for ten years, but the discount on the landlord's tax opened it up again. Mrs Ollongren wants to do so in her own right, but the Minister of Finance does not want her to do so. I would say that this is something that can easily be met and with which the CDA Group also has very warm feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u71	In itself, it is of course nice that the CDA group has warm feelings about this. Not Mr Nijboer, but another speaker was just talking about the CDA Minister. Just for the record, I'm standing here on behalf of the Crown. The fact that I'm a member of a political party doesn't make me a CDA minister. I'm a minister. And in the cabinet there should be no VVD, Christian Union or D66 ministers as such. Then there is the dialogue with Minister Ollongren on this subject. Moreover, there is much more to be said about the housing market or housing. That also seems to me to be something to deepen over the next few weeks and months. Are we going to come up with something that also appeals to Mr Nijboer? I would not dare to predict that entirely, but at least we will get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u72	What I accused Minister Ollongren of in this debate is that there were emergency packages for many sectors, except for housing. In fact, the arrangement that was there was shut down. So that's exactly the other way. She said: I cannot do that from the Minister of Finance, because it is a budget agreement. I don't understand why that's so hard to hold on to. What we know about previous crises is that housing can take a huge hit and housing corporations play a very important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u73	Moreover, not only cabinet members but also others in politics have as a core argument that it should not be allowed by the Minister of Finance. I imagine it was not Minister Ollongren's line of speech. What I know about that arrangement is that it was rigged for a billion dollars. It's neatly filled for a billion dollars and then it's just closed again. From a political point of view, I understand that Mr Nijboer says that he is anxious to have it open again or that he wants a new version of it. But it's not like we jammed the stop in the tub there before the bath ran out. We did it with that billion just neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr Nijboer, very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u75	That arrangement was for ten years: ten times 100 million. Partly under pressure from the CDA and the Christian Union it could be recorded in one year. 1.7 billion was already committed in the first quarter. So that arrangement was far too small. It was a drop on a glowing plate. There was a lot of demand for it. You can also say it was a great arrangement. She just got too small. Because of budgetary...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u76	Just a brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u77	You're right, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying very hard to move the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u78	That's what I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u79	... to do something for housing, but I'm getting zero on rehearsal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u80	That's too short a turn. I think the question here is really: how do you appreciate what happened? Mr Nijboer says 'that is a fantastic arrangement'. When I listen to him like that, he says: you have to let that go for another ten years. I think there's another side to that, too. For 10 years, 100 million had been agreed, together 1 billion. We have said 'let's be flexible; you can spend it all in one year'. We then maintained that whole amount, so we simply implemented it as agreed. That, I think, is also part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u81	Let's just get to this point. The minister wasn't a minister at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u82	Those were the days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u83	... but its predecessor once introduced the landlord levy as a fiscal measure in order to put public finances in order in the financial crisis. Now that landlord tax is raising a lot more revenue than ever thought, while there is a housing crisis going on. I therefore support Mr Nijboer's plea that it is now time to refrain from a landlord's tax which was intended for the financial crisis, and to withdraw the money from it, in order to resolve the housing crisis. Otherwise, we will stick to the problems of the past, while we now have problems that need to be solved, and so at least 1 billion more should be released from the landlord levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u84	I understand the argument, but certainly with that reference to the crisis, it is on the edge of my tongue to ask Mr Van Otterloo whether he wants to abolish the banking tax. It has also been increased, and this is also the result of the crisis. Is that what that's for? The system we have in the field of taxation... Some of these measures have been introduced in the crisis, others have not. We all see that, by the way, I agree with Mr Nijboer that this housing market always has an impact on the economy in the Netherlands precisely because of this enormous volatility. That makes you wonder if there's anything sensible to do about it, yes or no, I think it's a good thing. But that is also what I have to leave it at in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u85	Although I would perhaps like to abolish the entire landlord's tax, that is not at the heart of the plea. At the heart of the argument is to free up that extra billion, where the landlord levy has paid much more than ever thought, to enable investment in social housing. That's the point. It is not a question of abolishing the tax. It is an investment to invest us out of the crises, both the financial crisis and the housing crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u86	I refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u87	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u88	There's one more important topic in this block that I have to do. Several parties have referred in different forms to the AIV report and budget of BHOS. It's actually very simple. The cabinet has internal reflection on this and will have to complete that internal reflection. Then the Minister for BHOS will undoubtedly return to the Chamber. It is good to point out once again that not nothing has been done in recent months. The Minister for BHOS has already made 100 million available. The Minister, together with me, or with the cabinet, I think you should say that the IMF has provided 600 million in additional guarantees. She's making the rest of that puzzle right now. We will come back to that when the time is right and when she is done with that work. I'm gonna have to ask for some patience. The Alkaya motion, which Mr Alkaya has just referred to, but it applies to all the motions that are there, including in this area. Mr Stoffer referred to Mr Van der Staaij's motion. All these motions have the cabinet on the retina all the time. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the "other" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u89	But Mr Alkaya has another question about the previous one. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u90	Actually, I have a very simple question. Can we expect a substantive response from the Minister to what is happening in the world now? There are countries that have not been able to control the corona virus themselves. Other countries do a lot to help. The Netherlands has also done something, but this has been at the expense of other development funds. Here is the Minister of Finance, so this is an opportunity for us to ask him how he looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u91	Let me begin by saying that I think that what Mr Alkaya says is too short. The Netherlands has been one of the countries that has been working very seriously on development cooperation for many years. There has been some change in that, but if you remove all the words and things that have more to do with serving the self-interest, then the Netherlands is a country that always participates in the absolute division of honour in the field of development cooperation. That's just the fact, if you look back on history. That is also the case this year. You're gonna have to put that $100 million next to it. You're gonna have to put that 600 million from IMF next to it. The Netherlands was one of the first to promise this and that money was delivered immediately. In this respect too, countries sometimes see a difference between what is being said and what is being done. Last week we discussed this 600 million in an AO. One final piece I would like to add is that Minister De Jonge is working on the vaccine. At the request of the Netherlands, the vaccine will be there for foreign countries as well. That's in the Dutch part of the promise. I would not be too sparing in my appreciation if I were Mr Alkaya. I simply do not think it is real when it comes to what has already been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u92	I'm gonna go along with that for a part. The Netherlands indeed belongs to the left and also to the top when it comes to development cooperation, even if it does not comply with international standards. In the committee that deals with this, we often have discussions about it. At the same time, if we now find that many countries are still having problems with the fight against the virus, then it cannot be that the aid we are providing to these countries is at the expense of other things. Then it's a financial matter and this minister comes around the corner. Then he can now generously admit that he can't find it either. If we help countries to control the virus, it must not be at the expense of other things, which he rightly said the Netherlands is already doing; that it is important and that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u93	I have some bad news for Mr. Alkaya. Almost everything we do is at the expense of something else. Every expense we make goes at the expense of money that you could have given back to the citizen. Any expenditure we make will be at the expense of reducing the burden or at the expense of the balance. Almost everything we do has an opportunity cost. So if he thinks we could get around that cliff for this particular file, where it's not possible elsewhere, then I'd like to watch out for a disappointment. That opportunity cost is always there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u94	Very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u95	Finally. I'm not suggesting that it shouldn't be at the expense of anything. I am suggesting that it should not be at the expense of other aid to those same countries. If the Minister says he agrees and asks if the Chamber can help him get another cover, we'll help him with that. But today we have proposed to do it from the general funds, in line with what the International Affairs Advisory Council says. I look forward to the Minister's appreciation of that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u96	I think that at the end the Minister gives his appreciation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u97	Yeah, and maybe in second term. I'll leave that to you, Mr. Chairman. Still, just for precision. Of course, you can weigh it politically differently. The Minister of BHOS will want to come back to it himself, but paying from the general budget is not free either. There is no such thing as: without opportunity costs. Mr Alkaya started with: it must not be at the expense of anything. Then it should not be at the expense of the OS budget, but in this case it is not free. You can make that political choice. The cabinet is still under consideration how it is going to make that choice, but there is no free choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u98	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u99	I ended up on the third block, the block "other." A lot of questions have been asked by members about local authorities. I think there's a few things going on there. Of course, we all speak to aldermen and city council members of the various political parties. I think most people also have contacts beyond their own party lines. And yes, you actually heard about places where it was getting tight in the city. And yes, if you look at the coalition agreement and where extra money has been added, then also very substantial money has been added to the Province Fund. And yes, the Secretary of State for Finance has looked several times with the municipalities and discussed how in the category of accres the wishes of municipalities can be met. There is also Corona, where we all see, of course, that this means less revenue and potentially additional expenditure. The Minister for Foreign Affairs discussed this with the Secretary of State for Finance. He's made an arrangement. I don't know if you can call it an interim agreement. This does not apply uniquely to the municipalities. Of course, this applies to many more sectors. We have had to make agreements with the carriers and we have delivered emergency packages. So that dialogue is still going on. I would like to put one more thing aside, apart from the fact that, of course, we all see that you have to take the problems of municipalities seriously: even in this case, the money is not free again. Here too, it is real to have the conversation about how to deal with that account. What things can you do yourself? What things can you reasonably expect from the Empire? How can you fix things structurally? That should all be the subject of conversation. If I look at the dialogue that the Minister of State and the Secretary of State for Finance have and will resume with municipalities, I think they will certainly come out there. I've answered a lot of questions with that. Mr Sneller referred to the local tax area. I recognize the interest, not only of his party, in that subject. But I don't think that was a direct question to me. That is not something I can undertake on a large scale or even on a small scale. In my opinion, Mr Slootweg was still asking for a separate tax ombudsman, something like the Kinderombudsman. Did I get that correctly? I think that is an interesting idea, but that is first and foremost something for the Ombudsman himself. I think he himself has rather come to the conclusion that there should also be room for a children's ombudsman. What I would like to promise is that we will discuss this with the Ombudsman. If he isn't excited about that, I'd be happy to take that back here. I would also like to point out that, for example, when it comes to practical legal protection, external supervision and such matters as those referred to by Mr Omtzigt, Secretary of State Van Huffelen, but also earlier, commitments have already been made in this area. If we agree now that I am talking to the Ombudsman and that I am reporting to the Court, then we can then see how we proceed with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u100	There is another question for you from Mr Sneller about the previous block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u101	That is correct, because that was not the specific question I had asked about municipalities. I had asked two other specific questions, and because the Minister seemed to complete the local finances, I thought: then I would come forward. I don't know if I should repeat the questions or if they'll come later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u102	If Mr Sneller would like to do so, I would very much like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u103	The first question was about the medium-term estimate of the Central Planning Bureau, in which they say, among other things, that the EMU balance of local authorities will decrease by 800 million in 2025. So it has a downward effect, but that is what we will soon have to count on in our electoral programmes. They say about the scaling-up discount: it is paid in to Finance for 975 million, but we believe that this can only be done for 707 million. The minister was talking about free money. Now, of course, this is not a free money either, but it is the basic path that we will have to work on in the immediate course of the next elections. So I asked the Minister to reflect on that. That was the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yes. It is really not the case that we count ourselves unjustly rich in this. We have now compensated the municipalities with a package of somewhere between 500 and 600 million, I believe. We have also said 'we will stay in conversation', because we also see that not all the suffering has been suffered, not even for municipalities. The financial situation of municipalities is also monitored by Minister Ollongren. She also has contacts about this; I believe that the next meeting is planned somewhere in mid-August. I just want to make sure that's what's going on. I hope that Mr Sneller will recognise the added value of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u105	Sure I can see that. For that corona help, that makes sense, too. We will continue that debate tomorrow. I specifically asked this Minister how I should deal with these assumptions made by the Central Plan Bureau, which we will soon have as a reality in the next cabinet formation or in the election programmes. It says, no, it's only going to be 700 million instead of 975 million for such a scaling-up discount. That is a hole of 275 million, which seems to be rich in the books of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u106	The CPB is independent. So I could remind them of the discussion in this debate, but I cannot oblige them to take it one way or another. I know the planning agency, and Mr Hasekamp in particular, as sensible and stubborn enough to act in it. So I think it's in good hands with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u107	I think they'll say they've met this minister in the same way...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u108	That would be a big compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u109	...so he can adjust it, too. The second question was about Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act, which actually states: you do not give tasks to municipalities if you do not provide a budget. We do not have such a thing in the budgetary rules. I often hear that something is dissuaded because it's uncovered. But since municipalities aren't listed here in subject-K, I hear that much less often. I ask the Minister to think with me about how we can give this a firmer place in the budgetary rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u110	I should think about whether, and if so, how. Perhaps I should devote a little bit of a letter to that, because there is more to be said about it. There is something that I find striking, and that is not what I mean by qualifying or disqualifying. We have, of course, laid down a lot of extra tasks for municipalities in recent years, and by 'we' I mean, of course, a lot of extra tasks for municipalities, but we have also put in a very substantial extra budget. For example, in the case of youth services, municipalities say: it is not enough. You can also see that in the Netherlands more children go to child care than in most other Western countries. Why is that? I think those are both relevant questions to take a look at. So if Mr Sneller says 'I would like that letter on this particular article', I am happy to tell him that as far as I am concerned. I think we still have homework anyway, not so much we here in this debate, but we in politics. 'Cause how did we organize that? We have tasks that we have thought of together that would be deposited with municipalities. We have actually allocated a considerable amount of money for this, and we have also made a considerable amount of money in this coalition agreement. We have also added additional money, for example in the youth care sector, a number of times. Still, we have the same discussion every time. How is that possible? At least that's remarkable. So we just have to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u111	You're giving the Chamber a letter. Do you have a term in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr President, that will be after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u113	After the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u114	These are very large movements, where I think: of which at least it is useful to know in advance how we deal with them. For example, an independent study is being carried out on the climate effort for the municipalities; what would it cost? But it's also about those little things: "do a chief privacy officer," "do this or that." Then it is not the case that there is a very big debate ahead of it, but that is just a motion that becomes a task, which is not budgeted. It is these two elements that are at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u115	Of course, I recognize that as a problem. That's why I'm willing to give you a letter about it. Indeed, it is the big and the small discussion. I recognize that little argument. Municipalities are not unique in that they are on the receiving side of tasks from this house, whether or not constructed in consultation with the cabinet. I also know a number of implementing bodies to which that applies. At all events, I know all kinds of institutions to which that applies. I think Mr Sneller is right. You have to ask yourself each time: can an instance do that and is it equipped for that? The other side is, of course, that it is also up to politics to decide whether to make such choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u116	There's gonna be another letter about that, so I'm gonna take a look...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u117	Here's a letter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u118	Mr Slootweg probably has a question about the tax ombudsman. Do you have any further questions on this matter? Would it be okay if I let that go first? Go ahead, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u119	Yeah, about the city finances. It is good to hear that Minister Ollongren will sit down with the municipalities again in mid-August to look further. Then a month later it will become clear how the Empire is dealing with the municipal finances in the coming period. It's about money. The government must indeed look at that, because the need is high. All kinds of agreements can also be made with the municipalities that do not necessarily cost money, but they are about providing more security, more comfort. Can the government not talk to the provinces and municipalities before mid-August about what guarantees the municipalities need in order to be able to continue preparing their budgets?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u120	Let me get this straight. There has, of course, been a lot of talk, even at political level, with municipalities. A number of weeks ago certain agreements were made, both on the actual amount and I thought between 500 million and 600 million, but I would remind you of this and agree on the follow-up. Agreements have been reached on the issue. The Secretary of State for Finance has been there. The Minister of BZK has been a member of that group intensively. We're talking about mid-August, I think it's August 17th. So I would like to say here from the loose wrist that in six weeks' time it will be far too late to sit around the table again, when I do not know in detail what has been discussed, but do you know that a lot has already been discussed? That sounds like a kind of macho adjustment in a process in which they really are doing very carefully. So I'd say that's a little rough on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u121	For example, I hear very specifically that there will be compensation for the implementation of the corona measures that have come towards the municipalities, such as the Tozo and so on. But there's uncertainty about whether that's a cost-covering fee. Let me say that there is not an amount on which the municipalities are currently saying that they can count on it. I have the feeling that there can be a lot more clarity and certainty on that side of the matter. Can we look at that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u122	Let me give the following undertaking to Mr Bruins. I would simply point out to both government officials that this has reappeared in this debate. But I would really like to leave with them what is prudent, given the discussion that is taking place. I would particularly like to do that, because I did, of course, ask both government officials when the previous series was talking: is there a liquidity problem in the municipalities? And then they said to me: no, we really hear from the municipalities that there is no liquidity problem now. That money has then already been made available. You could also have said that there is no liquidity problem, so that might be possible later. But that is, of course, an important fact, precisely in the light of Mr Bruins' question. Because you really need that certainty especially if you think: I have a problem the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u123	Very briefly, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u124	Indeed, liquidity can be used, but then you still need certainty as to whether or not you need to budget properly for the coming years. This is also an agreement that could be made with municipalities, which gives more certainty without costing more money in advance than per se.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u125	May I make the following announcement with Mr Bruins. I put this point of attention to the responsible directors and ask them to act on matters. Is that a modus operandi we can find ourselves in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u126	Mr Slootweg has a question about the tax ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u127	I would really like to spell out the urgency of this, not only because my colleague Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten are about to fill the mailbox, but also because we are now getting more and more signals from SME entrepreneurs, particularly about the arrangements that the cabinet has actually opened up to them. I would like to ask whether the Minister recognizes that. We believe that such a tax ombudsman can be a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u128	The problems of childcare are well known. Secretary of State Van Huffelen is really working on this subject day and night. I think she's with a lot of skill and a lot of empathy just full of that. I also understand Mr Slootweg's question on this package, because, of course, there are also fiscal matters involved. I just hope he understands, for my part, that the Ombudsman is an independent institution. It's not something only I'm talking about. That is what the Ombudsman himself is about, and it is, of course, something that would lend itself to further reflection in the cabinet. I'd really like to discuss it. I would very much like to present it to the Ombudsman and, of course, we will then consider it in the Cabinet. However, in this debate on this subject or on other subjects, creating a few extra ombudsmen or wives is perhaps a bit too macho.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u129	You promised me a letter. When could you send that letter to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u130	In two days, it'll be recess for the Chamber. I know from Mr Nijboer that he goes on vacation immediately. So I think it's early enough if the letter is in the Chamber after the summer. But I'll have the meeting held in the summer. Is that a good idea? I see a shaky posture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u131	Yeah, there's nodding, I say for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u132	I'll make sure that that letter is there after the recess, and I'll make sure that the conversations are made in the recess. Is that how you let me get on with it? The urgency and importance of the subject are really clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u133	Please continue. I'll take a look at the time. Can you answer the questions that are still at hand, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u134	Yeah, I think I only have one or two left. We've done local authorities, we've done all the questions about the investment fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u135	I still have the year of grace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u136	I think Mr Stoffer was still asking about the SDE and/or the ODE, and perhaps both. There were no legal obstacles to otherwise deploying the SDE. You do want to deal with that carefully, precisely given the agreements made. But, of course, in terms of the subject matter, we have not used it for anything entirely different. In theory, you could use it for anything. That would only be a little strange, because to build roads from these SDE funds, so to speak, or to train police officers, would go a little far. But I think we've really stayed close to the domain here. Of course, you try to fit and measure together to do justice to that SDE, but also to the challenges that exist in terms of climate. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a lot of questions in the direction of: when is this coming, are we going to sweep all these things together? Part of it in the letters I promised in this debate. Mostly at Prince's Day. Then we're gonna harvest and see how these things fall. I noticed in the column of Wouter de Winther that my wife Liselot drew much more attention during the last day of Princess' Day than myself, so I will try to recapture myself in this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u137	Have all the questions been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u138	I thought I was done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u139	I'm looking at the room to see if it is. Mr Stoffer is still coming forward. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u140	I asked one question that I really want an answer to. I have put forward a proposal for a mid-term review by the General Court of Auditors to see whether everything is being done effectively and lawfully at the moment and to prevent the cabinet from getting some sort of insult that we may be able to avoid. I'm very curious how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u141	It's not for me to give that High College of State a work assignment. This is actually something that is more suitable for dialogue between the body that ultimately deals with appointments to the Court of Auditors, namely the Court itself, and the Court of Auditors. So, in my regular consultations, I should like to highlight Mr Stoffer's interest in this. But I would like to make sure that I put a shopping list on Mr Visser's chair. Is that a formula?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u142	A workable solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u143	That's clear. Perhaps I will support this with a motion in a moment, then that question has also been made very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u145	Fine. That answers all the questions. I'm looking around. We're moving on. I see several Members shuffling to make some motions. No, there's gonna be a question. Mr. Van Dijck, will you excuse me? I know that you are the first to speak in second term, but Mrs De Vries has another question. I saw her having doubts, so I would like to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u146	In my view, I have not received four answers, namely on the failure of USD 1 billion at VWS and in any case on the prepared story about VWS, on the control of corona expenditure, and on the tax reimbursement system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u147	The VWS question has already answered the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u148	I answered the VWS question. I have answered the question on tax reimbursement in the direction of Mr Van Dijck, up to two and a half times. Perhaps it is the temperature of feeling, but I have the impression that I have answered dozens of questions from Mrs De Vries, perhaps from time to time through another speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u149	Will Mr Bruins of the Christian Union perhaps return to his jubilee year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u150	Sure, because I haven't heard much about that. I gave a very nice tip to the Minister of Finance on how he can structurally save 11 billion on inefficient spending. Can he go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mr Bruins has said a lot of beautiful things about kings and prophets and what is more. I get the idea. What's the dilemma? The dilemma, of course, is, on the one hand, the logic of debt restructuring for people who are really just in a very sad situation. I've spoken to people on several occasions about this. It is only a small part of my portfolio, but it is not for nothing that I am very motivated to protect people who are already in a vulnerable position. Then you immediately have the discussion about the credit houses and about debt restructuring, things that Vliegenthart always, rightly, demands a lot of attention for. That's one way. We have also spent time and attention with each other recently in the category Wijzer in money matters. The other side is the persistent interruption that Mr Stoffer just committed. It's not free here either. So you don't want people to prelude on it in the sense of "well, it might be easy; I don't really want to pay back that bill." My impression is that we have done a lot and a lot of good work in debt restructuring. The current SZW Secretary of State has taken further steps here. My impression is that we in Finance are actually looking at what you can do to prevent people from getting into that position. I would like to study this again, but I do not know whether it can go as far as Mr Bruins proposes. That is what I should discuss with SZW's colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u152	I get that. I happen to do SZW myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u153	Then it'll be recognizable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u154	We've been talking about this debt buy-back fund for quite some time within that committee. Meanwhile, the NVVK and SchuldHelpMaatje also think about how such a fund should be designed. The Secretary of State also talks to these organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u155	What was your question to this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u156	The minister just gave a small opening. He said, "I'd like to study on it." It would be a good thing if we could move this issue from SZW to the Finance Committee, too, so that we can look from a financial perspective at a one-off investment in such a buy-back fund. Would that be something that contributes to the economic development of our country? Would the Minister be willing to study that in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u157	Apparently I am seen as a more shaky window than the SZW Secretary of State, so that makes sense. I've tried to say in my appreciation that I understand the thought, because of the misery you hear when you talk to people about this. I'm thinking of a family that for years slept in one room with five people, with one mattress, with no money, with one chair in the room and with €50,000 in debt. People are telling you that with tears in their eyes. That is, of course, a really bad situation. We agree on that. On the other hand, you have to weigh that against the question: how does such a fund work? So I would like to make a promise that I will have that looked again through or with the SZW Secretary of State, but I do not want to say that we are now going to investigate this on a large scale, also because the more Mr Bruins asks, the more I get the impression that he had actually started a dialogue with the SZW Secretary of State. Again, apparently it is his appreciation that I am the more shaky window. So it's good to go shopping there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u158	I will conclude on this point, because I think this will continue with SZW. That's where you're gonna make sure that's not forgotten, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u159	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I will think about how to formulate this more in the terms of finance...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u160	No, that's really not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u161	... so that the Minister can also be helped further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u162	I'm gonna go check on Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u163	This really is the Secretary of State for SZW's portfolio. I feel like a doctor who has someone in his office for a second or a third or a fourth opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u164	Go ahead, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u165	Mr. President, excuse me. I thought Mr Van Dijck would still have a few interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u166	No, excuse me. You may listen to the second term. You are also going to give an appreciation to the amendments in your second term, I understand, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u167	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u168	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dijck. I'm just gonna wait a minute, because I can see that the minister is still working on something. I would like the Minister to have undivided attention to this. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the answers. Let's hope, as I said in the first term, that we don't have a second wave and that we quickly have a vaccine. Then we'll be in a different place. I would like to quote the Entrepreneurship Committee, which presented a report the day before yesterday and announced a wave of bankruptcies. So the future doesn't look so good if I have to believe the committee. Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. Many answers remain out, because much is shifted to September or August or to other rulers. We can't really get the finger on how to proceed and that's too bad. The PVV expressed its concerns about the deferred payments. Soon all this will come together: deferred taxes, deferred rents, deferred bank repayments. We are concerned that this may be a blow to companies, resulting in bankruptcies. The Minister says: we will. The Commission's report on the situation in the United States of America was published in the Official Journal of We have also asked for a recovery plan to boost consumption, the economy. I do not get the Minister's answer that this recovery plan is there. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the contraction of the economy has been mainly caused by the decline in consumption, due to a fall in demand;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan to boost consumption and thus the economy in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35450-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. The PVV has also expressed its concerns about unemployment. All economists, and also the CPB, agree that next year we will have 700,000 unemployed at our disposal. This minister does not really have an action plan. He says: that's too bad for those people, the 700,000. We see it coming, so I hope we can anticipate that. Finally, Mr President, we have expressed our concern about the corona credits, which the Minister says is not true that there is a problem there. All the sounds, all the signals, all the articles in the newspaper say, however, that it is a problem. Because if only 4,000 out of 400,000 companies get a credit with a state guarantee, 1%, then that's a problem. The reason for the problem in the interruption was that I was not prepared to accept that only guarantee credits should be granted if the commercial market is not prepared to do so; Article 4.2 of the implementing framework. So you must first be rejected and then possibly qualify for a SME credit. But then there is a risk assessment, the company at its core must be healthy and have sufficient payback capacity. So the chances of getting such a credit are extremely low. That is also evident from the figures. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas despite all public guarantees, many applications for loans are still rejected;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the financial sector to see how more generous lending can be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35450-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u172	Thank you. I would ask Mrs De Vries to come forward after the chair has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated that I think it is important that we take sensible measures to get out of this crisis more effectively. I think that also fits well with the line of intelligent lockdown. As far as we are concerned, this includes sensible investment. I thought the minister was a little cryptic about the new package. I understand that it has to be more focused and probably I hope that it can be much narrower, but I think it is important that we also see a number of bottlenecks at the moment. The tourist-recreational sector should build buffers, will have to hibernate again and will have to survive that winter to start again the next season. But there are still problems with the travel industry. I think the answer to that is a little lean and I did not feel the Minister's commitment to finding real solutions for the future. The second point is purchasing power. I have heard the Minister say something about this: purchasing power will be dealt with in the August decision-making process. But I think it is important that there are likely to be large differences. I wonder how the Minister looks at that and how he's going to solve it. I am pleased that the commitment to the municipalities in August, September can be clarified and that further discussions will take place in August. We are assuming that we will be provided with information on this at the time when it is being achieved. Another point: I can see a lot about selling against companies. I see companies that show creativity and resilience, flexibility and perseverance to get through this crisis. It seems a little like they're being put away. No, not by the Minister; the Minister is already shaking no. I have the feeling that the water is up to the hearts of the companies and that some people are thinking: well, let's just push them further under the water. I think this is the wrong institution, because all these companies - whether they're entrepreneurs, family businesses, SMEs or larger companies - all work for people. I think we should also see how we can help these companies through the crisis. As far as I am concerned, there are still a few questions left. Perhaps the Minister may have sidelined these questions, but my specific question about the tax refund scheme was when this can be clarified. This is because security is really important for companies. I also think it is very important for us to be able to monitor properly the expenditure we are currently spending, the billions we are putting in place. I really don't think it's okay that we say: I don't know how much has been spent and I can't even get an overview of that as a Lower House. In any case, I would like a commitment from the Minister that we will take care of that. I'm also curious about the downfall of 1 billion at VWS. The Minister said something side by side about VWS, but not very specific about that failure and how we should see it in relation to the expenditure we are all expecting. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u174	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks. He's dropping his second term. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. My group and the CDA think it is very important that we really see that we stand together for the effort to resolve the consequences of the corona pandemic. That is why I am actually very pleased with the Minister's commitments in the area of municipalities to really see the costs they incur in implementing the regulations. In any case, I feel that these signals have come in and that the Minister really wants to take a serious look at them. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a motion. I would really be very sorry if the impression existed that I sensed a little in the reply that I do not see the enormous effort of Secretary of State Van Huffelen. If that impression persists, I would be very sorry. I experience it as really great, but I also notice that this whole situation, in view of everything that comes in the media and also in our mailbox, is not only about parents with surcharges but it also plays a role in the relationship further down the road. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people are reluctant to apply for a deferred payment or for a supplement;]] [[noting that this is partly due to complexity and partly due to frightening stories about high post-tax rates;]] [[Whereas the Ombudsman has a special Ombudsman for cases involving veterans and children;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the National Ombudsman and examine whether a special ombudsman for tax matters can be a next step in regaining confidence in our institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg, Mr Alkaya, Mr Lodders and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35450-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u177	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a few more things. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions and also thank you for the wisdom he has shared with us. That's how I wrote down "There's no such thing as free." So we're gonna remember that. I have stressed the importance of the welfare state which has now prevented a terrible economic crisis and which will also play an important role in the future if we stick to that thought. And I'm pretty optimistic about that. The Minister indicated: many parties have said what they have always said, but only they say it now because it is extra important because of corona. But I can sense something else, too. No one is saying now: let's do more market work in healthcare. Everyone agrees that this period is over, that there should be less market in care or that the labour market should be further flexible. We have already discussed this in other debates. Everyone agrees that something really needs to change. That's how I sense another era, and I'm optimistic about it. I just wanted to emphasise that. In addition, I fully endorsed Mr Slootweg's motion. I myself have tabled three amendments and I look forward to hearing the Minister's views on them. I don't have any motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u179	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would be interested to know what Mr Alkaya thinks of the results of the CPB investigation around Bernhoven, in which a health insurance provider has shown excellent results. Anyway, that might be another time, Mr. Alkaya. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to come back to three different points. Firstly, the municipalities. I am very curious to see how the discussion between CPB and Finance is going to deal with the underlying problem and to what extent the objectives such as Finance have been articulated will also be met. Thank you also for the commitments on Article 2 and for ensuring that we take this more seriously here. As Mr Slootweg said, we are very much looking forward to the outcome of the consultation between the VNG and the cabinet later this summer. I think that they also depend a lot on it in terms of security. Then there's the investment. The Minister rightly warns: beware, in the previous crisis, investments did not come true until the economy went up again. At the same time, it was our financial stability committee advisors who told us: try to bring that forward. The Minister says that there are not so many such investments that can be done, but the longer we wait to map that out and bring it forward, the more likely we are to be late. I therefore hope that, despite his keynesian scepticism, which I understand very well from past experience, the Minister will still want to see how we can use anti-cyclically some of that kind of investment that we had already planned. I welcome the Minister's warm words about the investment fund. Whether that is 40 billion or 50 billion, which the Minister did not think was very ambitious by Mr Nijboer, I am looking forward to seeing what he will come up with. I am also looking forward to the plans of 50PLUS that they have passed on. I hope that this discussion will then continue on the basis of that type of accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u181	Thank you. Then we wait, after which Mr Nijboer is next on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers to the questions asked. With regard to the guarantees, I also asked for an analysis of the Millions note of the greater likelihood that it would occur. I ask him to come back to that in the second term and make an inventory of it. With regard to the tax on profits, which is so falling this year, the Minister said that it was the same in the previous crisis. I know the profits taxes are very volatile, but I think they are extremely volatile. There is more than half less tax on profits, while the economy does not shrink by half, not by a quarter, nor by 20%. So I think perhaps we should ask the Court of Auditors for an analysis: what exactly happened? I fear that last year's profits will be offset by this year's losses. That may be the case in fiscal terms, but the question is whether that is the purpose of such a regulation. If last year you were a bacon buyer as a company and you made a lot of profits, tens of millions, and this year you're lying still, is that what you're talking about? I think that's one of the underlying explanations, too. The Minister just said he doesn't know if he is, but I'd like to take a closer look at that. Then it is really the question whether that is the intention of such arrangements. Of course, we know Booking as an extreme example, but this is also different, because you are helping as a government. Mr President, I see you looking very closely, so I am going to read out two motions that are a bit at the heart of this debate, as far as the PvdA is concerned. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet still intends to reduce the profit tax as of 1 January 2021;]] [[whereas companies only have to pay tax if they make profits;]] [[Whereas there are other urgent social priorities, such as structural appreciation for people working in care, police and education, housing and culture;]] [[calls on the Cabinet in the Tax Plan to return to the reduction of the tax on profits and to use the proceeds for real social needs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35450-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u183	The Minister already felt that this was an important motion for obtaining support for the Tax Plan and the budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u184	You did say that in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u185	Yeah, but I'm underlining it in second term. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet does not want to make cuts in times of corona;]] [[Whereas municipalities are obliged to keep their budgets up to date, thereby increasing the burden without exception and/or cutting down on essential facilities such as libraries, community centres and swimming pools;]] [[calls on the government to provide a further response to the budgetary problems of municipalities in the Millions Note, in order to avoid any disruption of public services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35450-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u187	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union after the chair has been cleaned again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and for today's verbal agility. It is nice that he wishes to bring the problems of the municipalities to the attention of the Minister of State. I think that there really needs to be more certainty for the municipalities quickly, because the need is high, not only because of the corona crisis, but also because of the structural problems we all know. They've certainly been there since the decentralisations. As far as the Jubilee Fund is concerned, the Minister is not yet Isaiah. There's still some work to be done. I have already said that SZW talks about the possibilities of such a debt buy-back fund that I was talking about. It is being examined whether such an exception year could be introduced. But what I need is a solid financial underpinning: is this indeed going to contribute to the prosperity of the Netherlands? That belongs to Finance, after all, the most solid department in our country. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Peters/Jasper van Dijk motion (35300-XV, No. 52) calls for the examination of an exceptional year in which all government-created and irrecoverable increases in debts are cancelled and notes that the Cabinet has previously undertaken to examine the possibilities for a debt buy-back fund;]] [[noting that civil society organisations such as SchuldHelpMaatje and the NVVK welcome the arrival of a debt buy-back fund;]] [[Considering that a 2013 CPB study shows that deleveraging or debt restructuring is done in an inefficient way and that it provides a potential justification for public intervention;]] [[Considering that problematic debt in the Netherlands currently leads to social costs of around EUR 11 billion a year;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate whether a jubilee fund or fund debt buy-back fund is a one-off investment that contributes to the long-term economic growth of the Netherlands and to inform the Court of Justice in the autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35450-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u189	Yeah, one quick question. I understand that such a jubilee year is always once every 50 years. Does this fund work every 50 years or every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u190	You can't do this every year. This should only be done in exceptional situations and I think that our country is in such an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u191	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I fully agree with his analysis of the costs of care, which we do not know much about yet. What we do know is that I ended my first term with that. We are vice-world champions of bureaucracy. Something must be done about that. Mr Sneller spoke about market forces in healthcare. Bernhoven shows, I would say to him, that there is less market forces there, because a number of declaration systems are being designed quite differently. When we talk about structural measures, I think we should also look at business, as I say to Mrs Wiersma. Since the introduction of health insurance, why has employers' participation in the financing of care been reduced in this way? This is also due to thezzp structure, but industry has contributed much less to the cost increase than the other sectors. There will therefore have to be a proper analysis of market forces and the financing of care, because we in the Netherlands were supposed to share the costs in solidarity, business and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u193	Who did you just mean by "Mrs Wiersma"? Did you mean Mrs. De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u194	Yes, I'm sorry, Mrs. De Vries. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u195	Mrs. De Vries, you were addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u196	I just wanted to get into it. We have a Mr Wiersma and a Mrs De Vries at the VVD. I understand that you would like them all to be male spokesmen, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u197	No, absolutely not. I thought you would comment on the substance of my speech. I was waiting for a substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u198	No. You were just reminded that it was Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u199	I can't get past the fact that both the names are from Friesland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u200	That's the confusion, I think. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u201	I would like to conclude with the hope that we will have a more structural approach to the cost of care in the millions note, because we fully agree on the risks involved at the present time, with too little consumption, which will later require more expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u202	Thank you. It's been announced what you're gonna do, Mr. Stoffer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u203	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to keep it short. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. On some things, I think we'll come back later. I would like to highlight one more thing, namely the point of the General Court of Auditors that we have just talked about. Yesterday, a letter came to the Chamber that the Court of Auditors is already setting up a monitor with a lot of information. I want to go a step further. The Minister may well be able to take that into account in the discussions he has with the Court of Auditors. So here's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that various support measures have been put in place in recent months with significant budgetary implications to address the impact of the corona crisis on entrepreneurs, workers,zzp'ers and others;]] [[Whereas the measures have been introduced as a matter of urgency, which is understandable in view of the need for them, but may have an impact on the effectiveness, efficiency and legality of the measures;]] [[calls on the Court of Auditors to carry out a mid-term review of the aid measures taken in the context of the corona crisis, which shall at least examine their effectiveness and effectiveness and their legality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35450-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will do the remaining questions first; there are not so many. Then I come to the amendments and then I make the motions. Mrs De Vries had a few specific questions. She wanted an extra insurance for the refund. She wanted to know how we deal with paying back taxes and whether there is still a possibility of postponing them. I have previously promised Mr Van Dijck 'absolutely'. She asked me when that would be. That will have to be after the summer, because then we will also have the next emergency package ready. But let me also say to her that I take this explicitly with the Secretary of State. It'll be abundant, because he's on top of this. He has also sent a letter to the Chamber several times that we have postponed things again and that we are monitoring this. But I will make sure that after the summer the Chamber gets notice of this too, in general with the Prince's Day papers, or in a separate letter from the Secretary of State. Her second question was: can I get an overview of all the expenses? Apparently, she had the impression that we wouldn't have an overview of that. Of course there are. In fact, such an overview was also shared with the Chamber last week. But I would like to promise that we will continue to monitor this, if only because those numbers often change again. So I'd like to keep those statements available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u205	Very briefly, a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u206	I like the Minister's commitment to that. Only, in answer to the factual questions, it is stated that it cannot be done. Then I find it complicated that the Minister says: I have already delivered it, while he says to the factual questions: I cannot do it. Those expenses that have actually taken place, which are borne by all the packages that we have now deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u207	No, but we're talking about two different things. I think I gave a new assessment last week, and I think I also shared it with the Chamber, of the figures in which, by the way, we are also explaining why this is so different from the figures of the Planning Bureau. But I can't, certainly not very briefly cyclically, look at each of those arrangements and see what the counter is on. What if we do it like this? Because I understand Mrs De Vries' interest. What if after the summer, either combined with Prince's Day, or just separate, I give you an overview of where we are, also by arrangement? Then Mrs De Vries has that overview. I see her nodding, so I'm gonna fight that for each other. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked specifically about VWS. I have already said a number of things about this, including the moves that are going to work against each other. With her permission, we're going in the summer, towards Princess Day, to take that whole palette, including the 1 billion and what the projections are. I would like to say this to Mr Sneller. What shouldn't be a misunderstanding is that I totally agree with him that we should just see what works. The problem with Keynes isn't so much that there's something wrong with the anticyclic logic. It's more that it turns out to be so incredibly complicated in practice to make it work. That anticyclic is what we are actually trying to do, especially in our entire volatile Dutch economy. See the automatic stabilisers and see also the policy of successive cabinets. In the booklet at the last or the one-after-last Millions note from the previous cabinet there is such a beautiful matrix. I remember reading it as a Member of Parliament. You can see how many times the cabinet has managed to conduct anti-cyclical policies over the past 20, 30 years. I'm doing it for a while, but I think it worked in less than a quarter of the cases. So you have procyclical and anticyclical, high-conjuncture and low-conjuncture. It is contrasted there and the conclusion is depressing. So it's obviously hard. It turns out that classical keysian policy is complicated, because of the three T's. I've mentioned them before, way before we get into this situation. But I agree with what Mr Sneller says: just watch and do what works. Mr Sneller and Mr Nijboer also referred to the size of the investment fund. The next thing I'm gonna say is to put it in perspective. I mentioned very substantial amounts, but that was also over a period of 20 to 30 years. So in that perspective, we have to read it. I also said, of course, that it means that the commitments you will make in the shorter term are of course much smaller, because you have to see that amount in such a time frame. If you would then make a very quick calculation of those numbers I mentioned earlier, you would come at about 1% of the national budget per year at that time. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer said he would like to study at the Vpb. Of course, it is also entirely up to him whether he wants to do anything there towards the Court of Auditors, but my proposal would also be to ask the Secretary of State to return to the Vpb in a letter after the summer. I get the question. Of course, it is entirely up to the Court of Auditors to look into this, but I think it is also a relevant point in the dialogue between the Chamber and the Cabinet. So I'd like to do that proactively in his direction. It's just a subject that, I think, deserves a floor. Then there are the guarantee arrangements. I had indeed swept up a few things, but I say it to Mr Nijboer. That is how I intended my first-term comment, but I may not have been specific enough. Let's see. What else do I have? Mr Bruins mentioned the jubilee year. Jubileo 2000 That was the jubilee of jubilee years I spent in Rome. Then I learned it's about a year in which you give things back to the rightful owner. I am not entirely sure whether that will bear 100% of what Mr Bruins thinks of this fund. But I shall now turn to the motion for a resolution on item No. 10 say. That I'm not yet a Isaiah. That's a literal quote. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the amendments. You numbered them, but I wrote them. I hope you're okay then. I'll keep telling you what they're about. Hopefully we'll find some congruence. I have under A an amendment by the SP Group on budgetary reserve 45 billion. Three petitioners. I must advise against this, because there are already a lot of measures taken by the cabinet and because the overall amount is much greater than what is mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u208	That's our number four.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u209	Then under B of Alkaya and Van Gerven I have funds for a revolver fund drugs. I must also advise against that motion. The cabinet is dealing with these issues and this is not appropriate in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u210	That's our number six.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u211	With me it's B. Excuse chairman. I don't know where the numbers or letters...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u212	For the administration of the members, this is number 6 in the VWS budget. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u213	Then I'll come to what's with me C. That is a motion by Mr Klaver himself and Ellemeet. I said move. Sorry, it's natural amendment. Mr Nijboer is absolutely right from the benches; it is almost recess. Resources for a bonus for care professionals. It is not the first time that an exchange of views has taken place, but it should discourage the cabinet. I refer to the dialogue that is taking place or has taken place with the US ministers and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u214	With us number 5 of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u215	Then to me letter D, a motion from the PvdA on the cancellation of the rent of cultural institutions. I must also advise against it. Minister Ollongren is working on the municipalities and has already compiled a package. Moreover, in the field of culture, some promises have already been made by Minister Van Engelshoven. So that's the motion... no, the amendment with letter D.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u216	Number 3 Municipal Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u217	Then I am in favour of the amendment with letter E, also from the Labour Party, on an innovation fund in the field of culture. I should also advise against that amendment. We made that $300 million available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u218	That's OCW number four.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u219	Then I have the next, again from the Labour Party, number 35450-XV-F.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u220	What's it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u221	It's about the art and culture emergency package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u222	Unsubsidised part? Or the freelancers and thezzp'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u223	In my view, Mr Nijboer is trying to say that Mr Asscher needs to make his amendments even more precise and that they might be able to count on a different opinion. But disappointing, not surprising: it is indeed dissuaded. So that's F. I don't know why that stands for 35450-XV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u224	SZW budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u225	Then I am the motion with letter G. It belongs to the Labour Party, this time by Mr Gijs van Dijk, and is about the change in the state of the Province Fund, specifically about the Wadden. I'm gonna have to dissuade them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u226	Let's see which one that's with us. That's our number 4 of the Province Fund for the year 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u227	The cabinet sees no reason to do anything specific for the Wadden municipalities. Mr President, I am with H, also from the Labour Party. Many amendments have been tabled by the Labour Party. It is again about an innovation fund. Now we are talking about 280 million for the non-subsidised part of the cultural sector. That's what you just referred to. I should also advise against that amendment. You will not be surprised because it says in the explanatory statement that we have already made 300 million available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u228	That's 3 OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u229	Then I am in favour of Amendment No I by GroenLinks on the cooperation organisation for vocational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u230	That's no. 7 OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u231	Reverting content, pay and price adjustment. After close consultation with the Minister of OCW, I must advise against this amendment. The cabinet has endeavoured to find coverage on the OCW budget for the SBB. Therefore, as of next year, a small additional million will be made available to SBB. But that's through a redeployment on the OCW budget. As the amendment has been designed, we must discourage it. Then I'll be closer to home, because I've arrived at Mr. Alkaya's. He has tabled an amendment to the budget of BuHa-OS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u232	Number 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u233	He asked for the budget to be increased by the amount of 1 billion. I'll have to advise against that, too. Given the exchange of views in the first term, that will not surprise him. Then I am in favour of Amendment K tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (GroenLinks) on the reversal of the reduction of resources for community care. It wants to add 341 million to the VWS budget. I should also advise against that amendment. It's a lousy harvest, Mr. Chairman, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u234	Number 7 VWS. Then the motions at a rapid pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u235	I think we're ahead of schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u236	No, we're walking on schedule. But you're doing well, so move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u237	Mr President, I have that subscription. I have to come a few times this week, so I'd like to take it from there. The motion in part No. 5 by Mr Van Dijck on giving a boost in the short term, I must advise against, because the cabinet has already put together a whole package. The second motion, in part No. 6, by Mr Van Dijck to talk to the financial sector about generous lending, I must advise against, because the cabinet, and in particular the Minister and the Secretary of State of EZK, has already done a great deal for this. It's also running properly, according to our perception. The motion in part No. 7 concerns the Ombudsman for tax matters. That motion by Mr Slootweg and others I can give to the Chamber. I didn't mean it defensively when I said something about the Secretary of State for Finance. I wanted to highlight more that, in my view, she is doing excellent work on a very difficult dossier. I believe that, with respect for relations with the Ombudsman and given that I cannot decide on my own, we should discuss this with the Ombudsman and take it back into the cabinet. The motion in part No. 8 calls on the cabinet to return to the reduction of the tax on profits in the tax plan. It is a motion by Mr Nijboer. Mr Nijboer's fine political sentiment already indicated that I should discourage this motion, because the cabinet should first discuss the revenue and expenditure side in August. I do not exclude that the tax on profits is also the subject of discussion. However, what this motion proposes goes beyond that discussion. The motion in part No. 9, also from Mr Nijboer, is also not recommended. I've been trying to outline the arrangements. I don't want to ride through it. It may well be that we will come back to that in the Millions Note, but I really should leave that with the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The motion in part No. 10 by Mr Bruins is about investigating a jubilee fund. I really need to dissuade him this way. I do not think this is a one-off investment that contributes to economic growth. What I would like to commit to Mr Bruins is that I am willing to resume the dialogue between him and the Secretary of State, but also between the Secretary of State and myself, because I fully understand his search for something sensible to do about this particular problem. I really see the problem of debt restructuring and of the people, who sometimes, but sometimes not, have fallen into dramatic circumstances because of their own behaviour. Those are always really tear-making stories. So I would like to enter into the dialogue on this, but as Mr Bruins is proposing at the moment, it is complicated. Then the motion to part No. 11. That is a request to the General Court. The cabinet is always in an ideal position, because it doesn't have to like it. Then I think I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u238	Yes, but Mr Nijboer still has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u239	To take stock of the situation, all the amendments, which were a whole package, have been dissuaded. One motion has been given the Court's judgment, but it is a bit addressed to the Ombudsman. Even a research motion from the Christian Union didn't make it. The spring note will make it this year, but if this becomes the attitude towards Tax Plan and Millions note, then I wish the Cabinet much strength. I suggest to the Cabinet that we also use the summer recess to see how it can gather wider majorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u240	I'll deal with that immediately. I believe that, not least to Mr Nijboer himself, I have made a generous set of commitments, including to many others in the Chamber. But if he says: we shouldn't have the Minister bored, so let him re-examine the seat ratio in the Lower House and the Upper Chamber and practice a bit in counting, then I'm going to do it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u241	Fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-6.u242	We shall vote on this tomorrow.
