ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 1 and 2 October 2020. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. We have just agreed that the debate will be held in the first term of the Chamber, to which the Prime Minister will reply. Next week, a VAO will be planned to conclude the debate, with motions for resolutions being tabled. Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u2	For those who do not understand this: the European Council has been postponed for a week because the President, Michel, has gone into quarantine, who wants to be physically present. That's a little weird in itself, but it's all a week later. So that's why we wanted the rounding a little shorter on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u3	Okay, so we're gonna have the debate now. I propose that two interruptions be allowed, in two or in four questions. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks. Mr. van Ojik's birthday was yesterday. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I'm 66 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u5	Fine. A beautiful age!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u6	You wouldn't say that. Fine. Thank you, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u7	No! And you were allowed to go home early because of your birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I understand that last night, during my birthday here in the Chamber, it was a tough debate for the Prime Minister, so I will not try to make it too difficult for him today, completely contrary to my custom. He can sit down now and he will! In particular, I have a number of questions and comments on the annotated agenda for the sitting, which has now been postponed, but which is likely to take place broadly along the same themes. My first questions and comments relate to the situation in Belarus, Belarus. You won't be surprised. It's been over six weeks since Lukashenko stole the election. He seems more or less secretly sworn in today. Since then, hundreds of thousands of courageous protesters have been on the streets every weekend in Belarus. Since then, people have been picked randomly and with extreme violence from the streets. And since then, people disappear in prisons, where they become victims of systematic torture. The European Union shall meet and meet and meet and come to nothing for the time being. It was not a good day for Europe, said the Foreign Minister when he returned from the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday. As far as I'm concerned, that's an understatement. How does the Prime Minister view this now? If there's no summit this week, are we gonna wait till next week's summit? And are we going to try to get all 27 countries to join us next week? It seems that 26 countries agree on the need for sanctions. There is one country that is Cyprus, I'm telling you that knows how to stop it. Is that how we will, I ask the Prime Minister, allow Cyprus to permanently block us, not to say blackmail us? Or are we going to impose sanctions with 26, 25 or no matter how many countries? I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the Dutch line will be in the run-up to the summit in the next week. But the debate on Belarus should not be just about sanctions. It is also essential that we support the opposition that is going to be so courageously on the streets wherever possible. We have already said it in the debate with Minister Blok. It was a beautiful sight to see how Western diplomatic representatives literally stood to be the winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature, Mrs Svetlana Aleksievich. I always have to practice how to pronounce her name. Is there not much more possible in this area, as I ask the Prime Minister? Because no matter how good it is, it's about protecting one person who's threatened by the regime. Would it be possible to speak at EU level about extending our diplomatic commitment in Belarus so that we can provide more and direct support to human rights defenders, to those who stand up for democracy there? I would also like to hear that from the Prime Minister. Finally, on Belarus. I would appreciate it if the Prime Minister could give us a little more insight into what is now happening diplomatically. There's a trail through the OSCE. There may be a trail in bilateral contacts. Perhaps we can use the relationship with Russia, which is not so good for many reasons, to get something done around Belarus. I look forward to seeing what happens in that area. The second part of my speaking time I would like to devote to the relationship between the EU and China. Last week there was a short telephone leader's meeting, or what was it called? I don't think it was really meant to be a summit, but at least it was a summit meeting. I understood that some progress was being made in negotiating an EU-China investment agreement. The Prime Minister may be able to brief us on that. I understand that the European Union has made a major point, as we expected, of promoting human rights and respect for international law, such as the law of the sea in the South China Sea. My questions to the Prime Minister are actually about the relationship between these two major issues on the agenda. Are those two separate tracks? On the one hand, we are negotiating an investment agreement and, on the other hand, we are talking about human rights, items 1 and 2 on the agenda. Or does the Prime Minister, like my group, see the possibility of linking these two issues with each other? I would very much like to mention two examples. Last week, a report was published by Amnesty International, which referred to a Dutch company that supplies surveillance equipment to China. Equipment that allows you to do emotional recognition and conduct behavioral analysis. At present, such products can apparently be exported from the Netherlands to China without any applicable export legislation or rules for dual-use goods, goods that can be used in two ways, which are clearly opposed. Actually, that's undesirable. It is undesirable that this kind of equipment, which can be used against the Chinese population by the regime, be exported to China. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether he sees it that way and, if he sees it that way, what we could do about it. The second example where investment and human rights touch together is last summer's coverage. I now paraphrase what I have read, namely that virtually all major clothing brands operating worldwide use Uighur forced labour in Xinjiang. I cannot check whether that is entirely true, but if it is true, it is of course a great shame and then it should not be possible. It should not be possible for us here every week to be angry about the repression of the Uighurs in the province of Xinjiang in China, while if we go to the shop here on the corner we can buy a pair of jeans made there using Uighur's forced labour. These are two examples in which, in my opinion, the investment agenda and the human rights agenda touch each other. I ask the Prime Minister what possibilities he sees to strengthen the synergy between these two tracks and to put an end to this kind of abuses, because those are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD. This is a kind of maiden speech for Mr Bosman, because he replaces Mr Anne Mulder. It's a nice commission you're getting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr. Chairman. I think there are only nice committees in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u11	That's right, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u12	Mr. Chairman. 75 years of liberation. This year we celebrate 75 years of freedom. It's a special year, in which we could have limited commemorations. That has not done justice to all those men and women who have worked for our freedom. That is why I would like to draw particular attention to it now. Special attention should be paid to all those men and women who worked in the Second World War to give us that freedom. The commemoration of the liberation of the Netherlands started on 31 August last year with the commemoration of the Battle of the Scheldt. A battle that was essential for the liberation of Europe. Zeeland has been severely affected by the violence of war. The house I live in today in Middelburg is a so-called "waterhouse." A lot of people will think of the water disaster of 1953. It was also terrible, but this was 1944, in which the Allies bombed the dykes of Walcheren and flooded Walcheren. The Battle of the Scheldt killed 10,000 people, including 2,300 civilian casualties, but by winning that battle the road to Antwerp was open and the victory was actually closer. Our freedom has been fought hard. We can only show our gratitude to all those men and women by keeping the memory of that terrible time alive. With a line from the poem The Fallen I say: We will remember them. To us, the present generation, now the responsibility to maintain that heavily fought freedom. This requires commitment, dedication and daily maintenance. One of the reasons for the 75 years of freedom is solidarity on the European continent. Learning the past is essential. The recognition of signals that bring us back into instability, that bring us back into conflict situations, is of the utmost importance. In the decades before 1945 armed conflict was common; a great contrast with the 75 years after 1945. It is also important that we have confidence in institutions that bind us. That is how the United Nations has existed for 75 years. NATO is 71 years old. And the European Union, thanks to its predecessor, the European Coal and Steel Community, has existed for 69 years. Does this mean it's all great? No, Mr. Chairman. The European Union is an ongoing process of improvement. The agreements of the past are clear, but the implementation of these agreements has not yet been properly implemented in all cases. If a country such as France, because it is France, is given more room to comply with the budgetary rules than other countries, then it gives instability in the Union. If countries such as Poland and Hungary do not recognise the basic rights of people, this leads to instability in the Union. Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union is very clear on the values of that Union. It says, and I repeat, once again: 'The values on which the Union is founded are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values are common to the Member States in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men." Mr. Chairman. To continue on this last point, Minister Blok once again called for a strong, effective link between the receipt of EU funds and the respect of principles of law. The above values are common to the Member States in a society characterised by pluralism and equality between women and men. They are essential for a strong Union, as are the implementation of necessary reforms. Because only if we as a Union are able to guarantee the rule of law and guarantee human rights for all within the Union will it become more credible when it addresses other countries in human rights situations such as China. But pleading for a link is just a start. What follow-up steps are being taken to promote this rule of law, I ask the Prime Minister. The annotated agenda states that the Netherlands sees an open, strong and fair internal market as the basis for European competitiveness. Of course, the VVD fully agrees with that. "The effects of state financing and state ownership have a disruptive effect," it says. But why is this only about third-country companies? Aren't state-owned companies at the core a disturbance of the market, no matter where they come from? How does the Prime Minister see opportunities for stronger industrial cooperation within the Union? A special branch of industry is the defence industry, essential for the national security of the countries themselves, but also for the security of the countries to which they are supplied. The defence industry is not in a free market. Does the Prime Minister see an opportunity for greater cooperation within the European Union, and also in the field of arms exports, in the field of the defence industry? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the internal market, and in particular the digital single market. If you want to be geopolitical as a European Union, you must also participate digitally. There is a lot at stake for the Netherlands. A great deal is happening at European level, but are the good things happening? Take the recent ruling of the European Court on data sharing, Schrems II, which has also brought Dutch companies into uncertainty about data sharing with the United States. Who's picking this up? This year's letter of intent at The State of the Union says that the Commission is going to come up with a bill for a data act. Is the Commission not late now? Is the Commission now working rapidly to find a good solution so that the Dutch digital economy and the whole of the European economy do not become stuck, especially in the very short term, so to speak, but also in the very long term? Mr. Chairman. The ambitions for digitisation are high. That's good. But how strong is the strengthening of European cooperation in the field of 5G? Are we gonna step in that? What speed is being generated to actually achieve a European 5G version? Time is running out and we are already lagging behind the rest of Europe in Europe. Isn't it time to bet on a European 6G network and become a leader in the system? Mr. Chairman. There are great concerns about tensions in the Mediterranean. It is good to see that the parties distance themselves from each other, but the cabinet does not exclude additional measures. What measures does the Cabinet intend to take? Much more important is the observation that there must be unanimity at the moment in order to arrive at measures or sanctions. We have now seen that the sanctions against Belarus are being blocked by a single country in the Union. How is the Union going to bring sanctions policy forward? As far as the VVD is concerned, the qualified majority can be a good solution when it comes to imposing sanctions. It is good that the Council is going to discuss the relationship with China. That relationship is called complex. Is that because China has the cards in its hands or because negotiations are difficult? The EU expects an equivalent trade relationship with China, but what is this inequality in? Should China eliminate inequality or is the European Union capable of overcoming this inequality? Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The European Union has brought us much good and will bring us much more in the future. But then it must be a Union of equal monks equal hoods. Then there can be no exceptions to non-reform or non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. Only then will the European Union be the geo-player that it can be, but above all that it should be. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u13	Thank you. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u14	A very nice contribution by Mr Bosman, almost his own State of the Union, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u15	I wanted to get off to a good start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u16	It's not a real maiden speech, because the chairman says I'm allowed to stand here. That's kind of nice. I heard Mr Bosman say some very commendable things that my group wholeheartedly agrees with, including deciding by qualified majority on sanctions. I'd like to mark that anyway. I am very pleased with that and I am not saying this to be faint. Your colleague in my committee, in another committee, says something else about this, namely that the Netherlands should always say no. I mark this step of the VVD as a very positive one that is unlikely to be needed. We need that in foreign policy to take steps. In this interruption, I have nothing but compliments to Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u17	Okay, look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u18	What a start, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u19	I'd say take it. The following compliments are from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u20	Welcome to Mr Bosman in the Members of Parliament who study, discuss and follow European affairs. He gets a compliment from D66. I'd take that in a different way, but okay. I hear from Mr Bosman's contribution that he has read the documents very well. It doesn't happen so well. There are also confidential documents. I find that very complicated. There are very specific points that you would like to ask a lot about. I have heard Mr Bosman ask questions about things that are in there. I want to ask him now if he can clear something up for me. It is said that a new system of global economic governance should be developed for free trade. This should then be done under the auspices of the WTO. But what exactly does it say? Does Mr Bosman have that sharp?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u21	I am, of course, very careful to speak out about what is in the confidential documents. I am mainly based on open sources and, in the discussion, I am mainly referring to broad talk. That is not unusual in this committee, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u22	This is a good entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr President, I have done my job. It is important that if the EU is to become a major player in world politics, a geopolitical player, it should have its own business in order. I have said this in my contribution. I understand that there are also issues concerning world trade. But I think that the basis of the European Union should above all be good. Then we can talk about a lot of things out there that are also important, and I have mentioned the UN and NATO; these are all matters of great importance, but that does not mean that I am going to make a comment on them right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u24	That's a shame, because I just don't know what's going to be decided there. There is talk of a new system of global economic governance. I don't know what's in there. We have to give the Prime Minister an order with this. Do you know why I find this so complicated? We tabled a motion a year and a half ago, and I did so together with the SGP, which states that we want the ever closer union not to be at the heart of all that European pace. That is what Mr Mulder, your predecessor, always said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u25	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u26	But if I'm reading the draft statement right now, it's actually all focused on that ever closer union. But it's classified. It cannot be tested, either by scientists or by journalists, at what point it actually goes much further. And when it's signed, we'll be faced with an accomplished fact. Would Mr Bosman support the call for this draft declaration to be made public and for it to be examined in the light of the European Treaty, which we must abide by, whether it is not far too far-reaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u27	I am very much in favour of transparency; let us put it first. But I am also aware that you sometimes need to have the space to exchange views with each other in order to engage in consultations without this coming out in the open. I understand Mrs Leijten's frustration and disappointment. She says "it's drawing at the cross," I hear. I don't think so, because it's being discussed. Negotiation and dialogue are under way. I think we can pass things on to the Prime Minister. I will give him my message: make the European Union a good union in the base, because only then will you have your momentum to move forward when you talk, for example, of world trade. A Union that is divided is not a player on the world stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u29	Mr. Chairman. This Prime Minister is one of the longest-standing European leaders, with the exception of the Heads of Government of Hungary and Germany. He's the third in line. Of course, you can think very differently about whether that's right or not. But now that it's true, I thought, "Let's take advantage of that." After all, the fact that you have built up seniority often means that you have a solid position. Mr. Chairman. There is enough to ask this Prime Minister for which he should use that position as far as the Labour Party is concerned. The cabinet wants a resilient European Union. Yeah, you can't be against that, but what does that even mean? For the Labour Party, this means a courageous Europe, a protective Europe and an active Europe. It's not gonna happen on its own. This will only happen if the Member States dare to take a firm position, dare to speak strong language and dare to introduce conditionality, which means 'if you do not, you will not'. I am going to ask the Prime Minister a lot of questions about a number of issues that are now before us. First of all, a brave Europe. This means that failure must be faced in its own circle. The rule of law in Poland and Hungary is being undermined. We all heard that. Mr Leijten recently recalled in a debate that Hungary refused to receive a delegation from this Parliament. When I look at the European budget, there is a rule of law mechanism in it that I can only qualify as a'sleepy bite'. That sounds kind of domestic, but I just can't make it anymore. What is this Prime Minister going to do to make sure that the rule of law mechanism really gets teeth, so that Orban and his cronies are really nervous about it and not thinking about everything: we'll come up with another trick to get away with continuing lhbti-free zones or suppressing the free press? Two: a protective Europe. If you want a protective Europe, then what is happening on the Greek islands and what has happened on the Greek islands over the past few years is, of course, really terrible. The Dutch cabinet has decided to bring a hundred people from Moria to the Netherlands. We debated that deal. I find it shocking that this is the solution of the Netherlands. Why has the Prime Minister not considered pursuing the same course as his German colleague? Is the Minister prepared to address the Greek Prime Minister to what is called pushbacks in some sort of disguised language? That means that people are sitting in a rickety boat at sea, thinking they've reached a safe haven and then just literally being pushed back. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this not only defies all imagination, but also simply international laws and regulations? How is he going to use his position to address the Greek Prime Minister? Mr. Chairman. Protective also means we stand up for protesters. Mr Van Ojik has already spoken about this in the framework of Belarus. As we stand here, people go out there to demonstrate. They want to turn Europe's last dictatorship into Europe's youngest democracy. We should protect them. We have already discussed this with the Minister of the Interior on a number of occasions. I don't doubt his commitment. At our request, he has agreed to finance a witness stand. But today Lukashenko was installed as president. The sanctions are in place. Cyprus's on the fritz. What is the Prime Minister going to do to prevent Cyprus from approaching next Wednesday, but rather tomorrow, in order to find a solution? Mr. Chairman. A decisive Europe also means a Europe that stands for human rights. Mr Van Ojik also spoke about this, and Mr Bosman also spoke about it. When we look at the relationship between the EU and China, it is difficult to see a good balance. I also recognise that it is difficult to find a good balance in this. But what is needed for this is that at least China's wishes around, for example, an investment treaty are linked to Europe's demands when it comes to respecting universal human rights. I say that universally on purpose, because we have seen that the Netherlands was inclined to follow the Chinese definition of human rights, which is not ours. What is the Prime Minister going to do to use negotiations on instruments such as the Investment Treaty with China for the protection of human rights? What is the Prime Minister going to do in a European context to keep the issue of the repression of Uighurs in China on the agenda permanently and continuously? We bring it up every time, every time the Foreign Minister says that he is paying attention to it and that he has discussed it, but nothing changes. It is high time that this subject transcends the diplomatic language, because what is happening there is terrifying. Now it also turns out that the Uighurs are being used to make our clothes. There's just forced labour there. Everything in us says that Europe has a lot of tools and ways to prevent that. How's the Prime Minister gonna do that? Mr. Chairman. The final point is a decisive Europe. For me, that means doing everything we can to protect the world from the effects of the climate crisis. There's an ambitious Green Deal. As with everything else, there are always a number of obstacles in the Union. Here too, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: the gravitas you have acquired in Brussels, please use them for the better, because it is really necessary, also in the Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u31	The Prime Minister says, "I'll have to sit down for a while." That won't be necessary. Until March there are about six months left, in which a lot of good can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u32	But we have not heard that comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u33	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u34	Mr Sjoerdsma with a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u35	Perhaps, Mr President, that depends on the answer. Mrs Ploumen's speech has been taken from my heart to a large extent: a courageous Europe and an active Europe. I'd like to come back to that "active" for a moment. In this turbulent world, it's also about trade. Now I remember very well that Mrs Ploumen said in a broadcast by Arjan Lubach about a free trade agreement with Canada: standards are not going down; don't worry about claims; I'm signing the Ploumendeal live on the air. Shortly after, she said at the NIS: I'm going all over the country to defend this deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u36	We've had that discussion, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u37	This is an important question, because that discussion is not over. I am not going to ask Mrs Ploumen to go all over the country, because I find that a little faint. But perhaps she can persuade the other side, her own group in the First Chamber to vote for the free trade deal with Canada in this time of crisis. I would appreciate that from Mrs Ploumen. I believe that this is also necessary in the context of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u38	A First Parliamentary Group makes its own decisions. This applies to the D66 Group and to the Labour Party. Maybe it's a good idea if the current minister continues the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u39	I think she does that if I follow her a little bit, but the point is, of course, if anyone can influence how the PvdA's First Parliamentary Group thinks, then I think it's the former PvdA minister who signed the deal. She knows all about the deal and how beautiful it is. Indeed, she has the gravitas, as the Prime Minister says so beautifully, to grab the PvdA's senators and say: do something different than we do. It would be good for the Netherlands, it would be good for free trade, it would be good for the jobs in this crisis and it would be good for the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u40	Well, Mrs Ploumen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u41	I hear Mr Sjoerdsma's appeal. I would like to remind him once again that the Labour Senators' Party is making their own assessment. That's how he knows them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u42	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u43	We're gonna follow that. We're gonna see what they're gonna find. I welcome the compliments of Mr Sjoerdsma; a bit predictable, but nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u44	One last question, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mrs Ploumen usually gives me a compliment back, but now she was a bit more catty. It is a serious appeal to Mrs Ploumen, a serious call in crisis time. It is a treaty that deals with jobs, it is a treaty that is good for a very large part of agriculture and livestock farming, as Mrs Ploumen said in her earlier role. I know that the PvdA senators think very independently and so do ours and other parties. But I know she can make a difference there with her vision. I call her: do so, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u46	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u47	My last answer may have been a bit shabby, but my first answer was also very serious, namely that that group makes its own assessment. They're perfectly capable of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Not only did our king give his speech last week, but Commission President Von der Leyen also seized her opportunity to escape himself as a kind of head of state in a bombastic and no less than an hour-and-a-half speech. In her first and, at the same time, I think, longest state of the Union in history, she actually discussed everything except the state of the Union. As with her predecessors, there was no time for reflection. However, no less than 90 minutes were taken to convince everyone that there is a bright future ahead, that the best days of the Union are ahead of us. All we have to do is give the European institutions more power. Mr. Chairman. It is clear which way this European Commission intends to go. They want to move forward, towards a political Union, with a foreign policy that is no longer restricted by vetos. Because the veto rights that Member States still have are not much any longer seen by Brussels as an obstacle, while the veto right is still one of the few instruments we have left to guard our sovereignty that we must cherish and not give up. I would therefore urge the Prime Minister not to give up our vetos. Mr. Chairman. This European Commission is dreaming of a United States of Europe, a Union that represents itself as a major geopolitical player with its own foreign policy and a kind of foreign minister: all grandeur madness in which the PVV does not go along. How hypocritical that so-called Union foreign policy is, Turkey shows. Despite blackmail and threats, this country is still a candidate country and lots of money are being transferred. Will you put an end to that formally and demand that money back? Mr. Chairman. According to the cabinet, the President of the European Commission showed realism and ambition in her speech. In fact, she does not lack ambition, but I have not been able to catch her by much of a sense of reality. What does the cabinet actually think of proposals to set up an anti-racism coordinator and to have the European Commission come forward with new proposals to address hate speech, whatever that may be? What's a co-ordinator gonna do? Is the real hatred being addressed or will the proposal be censorship? And are we going to have the proposal that the European Public Prosecutor's Office should monitor its enforcement? These are matters that belong purely and exclusively to the Member States, aren't they? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In Brussels, they are known not to leave a crisis untapped in order to get on with it. The corona crisis has turned out to be a great coat rack in recent months to mess with us further into a transfer union. "A remarkable moment of unity," said Mrs Von der Leyen, "which the Member States should be proud of." But what this Prime Minister did this summer, giving away EUR 100 billion in Dutch taxpayers' money, is certainly not something to be proud of. Signing billions of loans and gifts is not that either, and making a bunch of unelected Eurocrats have no authority to borrow money on the capital market at all. I call on the Prime Minister to fix that mistake and remove your signature. Mr. Chairman. Not only can we spend those billions better in our own country, rather than giving them away to Spain, Italy, France and Germany, but Brussels now wants more. We already received an eighth supplementary budget with an additional levy of EUR 400 million for 2020. Now the European Commission wants to take the opportunity to shift powers in the field of health care, i.e. to increase power in Brussels at the expense of the Member States. They made up a European Health Union this time. Don't, I'll tell the Prime Minister. Make it clear that health care is a national matter. Mr. Chairman. The European Commission has just published its long-awaited migration pact. Now the PVV is not happy with yet another dictatorship in Brussels, but what I have seen so far does not give rise to optimism either. Flexible solidarity seems to be the magic word. If they are going to wave solidarity in Brussels, then you should be careful, because it seems to be a magic word to open wallets and give away powers so far. The European Commission's solidarity is so flexible that Member States of the European Commission have to participate in any way: pay, or pick up asylum seekers. That is something either of us does not want. Perhaps you could save them the trouble of further lengthy discussions in Brussels by making it clear that the Netherlands is about its own admission and asylum policy, not the European Commission. Finally, Mr President. We need to get out of the European Union. As long as we are still in it, the cabinet has only one interest to serve: the Dutch interest, the importance that our tax money is spent on our own people in our own country, the importance that we can decide for ourselves who we let in and the importance that we are going to do about our own policies to do what is best for the Netherlands. This does not mean shipping billions to Brussels and southern Europe, giving up veto rights and not using powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The previous speakers have also said that you will only be a protester who has been demonstrating for a month and a half in a row for freedom and for fair elections. You'll only go out day after day, night after night, knowing that unfamiliar men with ski masks on their heads can drag you into a van at any time to a place where no one knows where you are and that then when you're lucky to get out, because not everyone gets out, your relatives can see on your body what happened to you. Then you might be relieved to hear that the European Union is going to take action, that sanctions are going to be imposed and that the European Union no longer takes it and does not recognise the elections. But, yes, that doesn't help you as much if those sanctions don't come next. That is actually my main question to the Prime Minister today: where is the European Union when it comes to Belarus? Not because we are about Belarus. Russia is not about Belarus either. Belarus' future lies with the Belarusians themselves. We must ensure this in our own backyard, that freedom. So let us make sure that the European Union is a player and does not become the playing field where great powers come to play a little robbert soccer and where we are kicked apart. Mr. Chairman. It is really very painful for Russia and Belarus to be able to integrate their tax systems rather than for the European Union to be able to impose a real sanction. We all know that previous speakers have also said that it is now Cyprus. It is really too painful for words that foreign policy can be held hostage by one Member State. Because that is what is happening here, as previously Greece took us hostage when it was about China, Hungary when it comes to Russia and now Cyprus when it comes to Belarus. So I agree with Mr Bosman's very commendable words: let us now go for majority decision-making when it comes to sanctions. But let this Prime Minister make a real commitment to that. Is he prepared to address his Cypriot colleague before the summit, because the summit has been postponed and to ask him to remove that blockade? Is he also prepared to look at a second sanction package, which Mr Lukashenko might be looking for, not to introduce it immediately, but at least to have something hanging over the market which is going to impress him? Unfortunately, the action of the European Union so far has not impressed us. Mr. Chairman. Then China, which has also been mentioned by previous speakers. This is partly about the internal market. It's about protecting our companies from Chinese companies stealing state secrets that they then use to set up state-owned companies. Those state-owned companies are then used again to compete our companies out of it. I would ask the Prime Minister to look very seriously at this; the internal market is now on the agenda. What can we do about this at European level? In fact, as soon as you find out, the funds of those responsible for that company will be frozen immediately and they will not be able to enter the European Union. I don't want to say it popularly, because there's too much popularity being said this week, but you'd want to destroy those companies before they're able to become competitive here. I would like the European Union to take action in this regard. The same applies to investment protection measures; others have also referred to them. I think it is crucial that we take steps there in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. Then human rights in China. Tons of hair were found on a ship. Tons of hair! Chinese Uighurs have to kneel in front of a train. Oeigieren here in the Netherlands haven't been getting in touch with family for years. Forced vasectomy. Someone, I think, Mrs Ploumen, just said that this is beyond diplomatic language. That is true, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he would qualify these events and these kinds of facts, which have been established with satellite images, investigations of NGOs and inspections on ships, and what this qualification means to us for what we should do. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me back to those vetos. I myself believe that this Prime Minister in Zurich gave a wonderful speech on the need for a geopolitical Europe. He's right about that. It was the same with the recovery fund, which was a lot of hassle about: that too was about the need not to let us play apart and that we have to be one player. The International Affairs Advisory Council says: further European cooperation. Recent research by Clingendael shows that the Dutch really understand that this is necessary, not because they really like it but because it is just necessary. People see that. I would like to ask the Prime Minister two questions about this. One: what has he done in the last two years, in concrete terms, to make the European Union really the world player that it should be? And what is he going to do over the next few days? I would actually like to see him pull out and drag him out in order to abolish those vetos or to take another measure. Because it feels pathetic, we almost all agree to display our impotence in words here in the Chamber, when something has to be done. Then for a change, I agree with Mrs Ploumen. I think that this prime minister's gravitas in the European Union may be worth more sounding currency than we are getting in return for it now. "Well said," says Mrs Ploumen. Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Mr. Chairman. Then, briefly, Turkey. We saw this morning that there are talks again between Greece and Turkey. Of course, that's good news. Although, as was just whispered to me, it is the 61st round of such preparatory talks. So I do not know whether we should have an incredibly optimistic view of the outcome. Can I ask the Prime Minister if he sees an opportunity to dismantle this conflict by bringing matters such as territorial demarcation and continental flats to the International Court, to depoliticize it, to see if there can be a legal ruling on it, rather than leading to almost a war? This seems to me to be a typical role that the Netherlands, a Dutch Prime Minister, could play. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the last item on the agenda: the internal market. If you want to be a big player, then you must also be economically resilient, then we must protect our market, then we must deepen our market. There too, more European action is needed. We saw that during the corona pandemic. Then all of a sudden we saw how that market got under pressure. Then we saw what happened when borders were closed, when goods and services were more difficult to cross. Then all of a sudden it was every man for himself. And our market remained vulnerable. It was already dormant, but it is now clear that European industrial policy is back. We are going to look more strategically at our dependence on other countries in terms of raw materials and medicines. The question is really being asked out loud, as I mentioned earlier: how do we protect our market from hostile takeovers and foreign investment in critical infrastructure? My two questions to the Prime Minister are as follows. What should be the next step to address the disruptive effects on the internal market of state financing and ownership of third-country companies, even now that the Commission has launched a white paper, on which the cabinet is positive? And how does he assess the progress of the investment agreement currently under negotiation with China? Does this offer sufficient guarantees of fair trade, sufficient guarantees of access by Dutch and European companies to the Chinese market and sufficient guarantees that access to our market cannot be abused? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u53	Mr Sjoerdsma always explains it so well, so I would like to ask him the same question as I asked Mr Bosman. What do you think is meant by a new system of global economic governance led by the WTO? What exactly does that say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u54	As I read it, but I will not quote from confidential documents, there is little news at the heart of the matter: an important European ambition, namely that the world trade system should be brought about quickly. This system is fundamentally unfair and fundamentally focused on low standards, weird market access, benefits that should not be there and favours own businesses where there should be fair competition. A crucial player in this is the World Trade Organisation, an organisation which unfortunately has not functioned for a long time, but which has now been eroded, to put it another way, by American actions when they had made a number of judges lame, which means that no more statements can be made. So if you ask me how I read it, I say: as an attempt to get it back on the map, as an attempt to keep the multilateral systems on track, if the venture of trying to ensure that something remains standing at the end of this period of President Trump. That's how I read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u55	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u56	You can't quote it, but it doesn't say that. That's the point. It doesn't say: we're worried about low standards, we're worried about human rights, we're worried about exploitation. For the latter, you yourself asked for attention in the context of what is happening in China with the Uighurs. It doesn't say any of that. I find it so strange that we should read all this in confidential documents and not really be able to talk about it or ask questions about it. And when it's signed, we'll be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u57	Well, you're trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u58	Yeah, well, okay, I'll describe it, too. But I'd like to know what it says. I mean, there are other areas of action that I would like to know: what does it say? But here we are talking about a new system of global economic governance. There's gotta be some stuff about that. There's got to be some way of thinking about that. Why is this not just being discussed openly, so that we can also check whether it is, for example, the European Union's Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? Is this a competence that lies there, or is it the power they seize? And that's what's bothering me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u59	Yes. I do not think I share Mrs Leijten's opinion on what is there, but I do share her discomfort about the fact that these things are confidential. I am very much in favour of seeing much more transparency in the European Union, as well as more transparency in this type of document. But I don't share the idea that there would be some sort of secret plan of global governance in these documents right now. What I can imagine: if Mrs Leijten is concerned about how this relates to certain treaties and certain agreements we have made, ask the government to find out. I think we should be able to get that, and then we will get that review. I don't think that's wise. I don't share that concern, but I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u61	You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u62	I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u63	Mr. Chairman. A European summit, so we can talk about anything in Europe today. And there are a lot of things going on. You have also been able to see this from the contributions of the colleagues we have just heard: everyone is focusing on a different subject, and they are all quite relevant. But the first inconvenience I share with my colleagues is the provision of information to the Chamber. In the annotated agenda, I see nothing about the MFF or the recovery fund, nothing about the Brexit, nothing about the rule of law, nothing about the State of the Union that Mrs Maeijer just mentioned. I really wonder if these documents will not be discussed at the meeting. I see the Prime Minister shaking no, but I hope he can confirm that as well. Secondly, and with that, I would like to add my voice to what Mrs Leijten has just said. We do have the concept conclusions. We can print it out. We can't quote from that. There is indeed a sense that we are striving to develop a new system of global economic governance on the basis of an ambitious balanced free trade agenda in which the WTO has a central role to play. It's just that quoting here is illegal. But I do not think that the chances of them dragging me to court in Luxembourg will be too great. It would also be scandalous if a politician, who has to check a government for texts, were brought to justice because he controls the text. However, while we have time, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to explain here exactly what this means. And if he can't do that in public, he can always do so in a semi-confidential letter, and then we can table another motion on Tuesday. Because these texts always leak out at least two days before the summit, so we can quote from them anyway. But the inconvenience here is really big. This really cannot be done, because this leads to legislative action. And if you have to adopt texts that lead to legislative action, and you cannot talk about it as a parliament... They don't even do that in North Korea, right? But that is what we are doing here with the European Union and the administration. And we really shouldn't do that to each other anymore. That's what we've been saying for years, but we don't do anything about it anymore. So I guess I'm gonna quote out, and then I'm gonna wait for someone to drag me in front of a judge. Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise a number of issues: the MFF, the European Commission that wants to lift unanimity in tax decisions, the Brexit, the European Magnitsky Act, perhaps something about Syria, something about the ECW, France, human rights and the European eID. Yeah, I learned you can sit here a long time last night. Mr. Chairman. Last week we talked extensively about the MFF and the recovery fund. I would like to know from the Prime Minister what progress has been made in the negotiations and what has emerged from the trilogue. Von der Leyen promised that the use of EU funds would guarantee the rule of law, but the question is: how? Because I still don't see this in the lyrics. And could we please see the trilogue negotiating mandate? We do have a description of this, but I have not yet seen the mandate itself. And what about the Committee of Wise Men, on which the Prime Minister promised to come forward with a proposal in the short term, within one or two weeks? The two weeks are over. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Commission published a communication entitled '"This is not a legislative instrument which ends the European Semester and aims at flagship reforms of up to 300 billion, including social equality objectives. But then you will be rid of your hard reform conditions that this Prime Minister has been striving to achieve. Is this communication acceptable to the Dutch Government? What impact does this have on the ratification of the agreements, which is still to be concluded? Because if there are no more conditions, why would we agree to the 750 billion? Mr. Chairman. Last month we also received a sheet from the European Commission, with a communication on an action plan for fair and simple taxation. In this, the European Commission is trying, through comitology, to eliminate unanimity in the area of tax decision-making. The cabinet is critical of that part, but on another part it is less critical. That is the use of Article 116 of the Treaty of Functioning, namely that, if there is a barrier to the internal market, you may move from unanimity to majority voting. The Commission wants to apply this to taxes. The Dutch Government is not giving up on this hard enough. In fact, she doesn't really distance herself from it. There is an approved motion by Mr Maeijer. I would like to know whether this also applies to this particular point, because I think it would be useful for taxes, if you ever want to do so, not to go through Rule 116, but to submit it to the Chamber if you want to give a veto. Mr. Chairman. On the Brexit, we will soon have an extensive debate with Minister Blok. One question to this Prime Minister: Prime Minister Johnson has threatened to leave the European Convention on Human Rights. This means a further removal of the UK from European values. I ask the Prime Minister how this consultation with the UK is going. In the Council of Europe, too, we increasingly find ourselves with states that do not adhere to anything, such as Turkey, Azerbaijan, Russia, but also Ukraine, Malta and even Poland. It would be nice if there were a majority of states that have some rule of law there. In doing so, I still count the British as a very important ally. It would be worth a lot to me to keep the British in it. Mr. Chairman. In its State of the Union, the President of the Commission promised to introduce a European Magnitsky law in the short term. This is a long-standing wish of the CDA and the D66 groups in this Chamber. Then you can impose sanctions in the event of human rights violations abroad. When can this law be expected? Are we putting pressure on this to happen soon? Because, as my fellow Members have said, sanctions would certainly be appropriate for Belarus at the moment. We see that Lukashenko has appointed himself President for the sixth time in a secret ceremony, in an election that is not right on all sides. He uses the European indecision, the Cyprus blockade, to do this quickly, and simply creates the facts on the ground. Then we'll wait a week and convict it again. Just a brief word: we sometimes have trouble getting up against Russia, with a great nuclear power, I don't know how many tanks at the border, a geopolitical power and a seat in the Security Council, but that's how geopolitics works. With Turkey, it is sometimes quite difficult. But if we, as the European Union, are unable to act with Belarus, when will we still be doing something on the world stage? There is a neighbouring country whose population is massively revolting, which says: we have not elected this President. And it's deafeningly quiet all over Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u64	I am of course very much in agreement with Mr Omtzigt's call for hearts. In the original plan, there would be an opportunity tomorrow for the Prime Minister to address Cyprus. That's been postponed by a week. But many things can happen in that week, Mr Omtzigt rightly says. I asked the Prime Minister if he was prepared to come into contact with Cyprus today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, to argue that they should give up their opposition and also to find support for it with others. In other words, should this part of the Council not be brought forward? Would Mr Omtzig support me in that question to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u65	Sure. I think it is very important that other countries contact Cyprus. Contrary to previous blockades, the Italians have sometimes blocked it because of shoe imports from China...................................................................................................................................................................................... So the way in which Turkey is currently dealing with the territorial waters of Cyprus and also with the borders of Greece is unworthy of a NATO member and really cannot. So I would also understand if the Dutch Government explicitly supports Cyprus, but says: we will stand by you in this important conflict, but will you make sure that you do not block Belarus now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you for that. I'd like to argue something else. I would argue that Cyprus should not be given an opportunity to deal with different dossiers in a way that you can think about linking them up. One is completely separate from the other. So I would like to call on the Prime Minister not to go along with what I call Cyprus's trick and excuse, and to judge the Belarus case on the merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u67	I think that would be very desirable. But if I make a plea here that we should veto ourselves, other countries will have their own veto when they want to. That is the rotten thing, and I would just like to say a few words about the fact that each country has the veto and that commitment at a time when other countries do not like it. Otherwise, it is not a veto, but qualified majority voting is enough. It is very difficult to do about it, but Cyprus is doing it here at a point that is an issue for their geopolitics and their survival.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u68	I'd like to continue at the same point. Last week we debated with Minister Blok. Then the RBZ was actually a bit of a deadline. We said: if there is no decision on sanctions, then perhaps we should consider other matters. Mr Bosman has already spoken about qualified majority voting. But if we were to say, "Well, then Cyprus is not going to join us." Then we simply introduce these sanctions with 26 Member States. It could be. Of these, Minister Blok said: it is too early for that, etc. However, it might be better to impose sanctions with 26 members than not to impose sanctions. Does Mr Omtzig agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u69	I agree. I would also like to invite the government to come forward with a letter next Tuesday setting out the possibilities for proposing 26 countries. I could very well imagine that these 26 countries are deciding to put the same people in the Schengen Information System. Then they can't come here. And that they decide to freeze the same people's business. Now I have to say that Cyprus has an disproportionate part of certain illegal banking transactions, but since this week and ING, the Netherlands also have to wear a slightly smaller pair of pants about it, I have to confess, to my deep regret, here in the Chamber. But they could do something with all of them. I ask the government to explain what that might be, so that we could call them to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u70	Continue
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the government held Syria liable under international law for gross human rights violations and torture. This is an important step in the trial of criminals during this civil war. The Netherlands is about to step on the stage of the great powers. Supporting this liability is essential in order to make it work and to bring criminals to justice. Is the Prime Minister prepared to accept this before the forthcoming European Council? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the European social market economy. I would like to draw attention to an appeal from the President of the Commission from the State of the Union. It stressed the importance of strengthening the European social market economy and protecting workers and businesses from external shocks. It promised to propose a legal framework for setting minimum wages, measures to boost the internal market, strengthen economic and social union, restore the Schengen area, update the EU's industrial strategy and adapt the competition framework. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to formulate a Dutch position on what the European social market economy would look like for the Netherlands. For example, to ask the ESC or the WRR to examine whether it is possible to take into account the Rhineland model as a European model, with a role for corporations in involving society in social initiatives. What opportunities and challenges are there for the Netherlands to move from an Anglo-Saxon focus to a continental oriented course? I am asking you to be very clear on which competences the EU should have in the social field and which national should remain. Because the EU went very quickly to make everything an EU competence. Because we are in a made market, it is clear that we want to have a vision of it. Mr. Chairman. A couple of little dots. I agree with colleagues on China and the Uighurs. This is not a footnote in history. There are some things you say: we have one more little thing, like one person stuck somewhere or whatever. There are probably crimes against humanity and possibly genocide. At a time when a country is going to do so, I am also very curious to see how the European Union is addressing this issue with China. Secondly, I would like a response from the Dutch Government to the ECB which thinks something of politics, namely that the fund of 750 billion should become permanent. Can the Prime Minister distance himself from that? I note one small thing in the agenda, namely the introduction of a European ID card. That is very interesting in itself, but how does it relate to the DigiD and to the eRecognization, the drama at the IRS? Is that gonna be fixed a little decently or are we gonna get five systems next to each other? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u72	Thank you. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u73	I was wondering, is Mr Omtzigt for or against the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u74	We are in favour of the euro, but we would like the European Central Bank to keep to its core task. I argued in the previous debate that the buying-in of more than 60% of public debt as a percentage of gross domestic product is not sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u75	Yeah, that's exactly why I'm asking. So Mr Omtzigt seems to recognize that the current rate is not sustainable. All the time printing money, pensions evaporate, more and more inflation, housing bubble and the Netherlands pay. So does that mean that if he, like me, finds that that policy will not change, he is indeed in favour of retirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u76	No, it doesn't mean that. By the way, the previous sentence was not correct either: always inflation. The European Union suffers from many things, but not always from inflation. We only suffer from house price inflation because we are unable to build enough in the Netherlands. But the rest of the inflation in the Netherlands is relatively low.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u77	Mr Omtzigt has not finished the answer. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u78	That is why we have asked for that committee of wise men to be set up, to which I would ask the government to respond, to see how we can normalise both fiscal policy and the Stability and Growth Pact in due time, and monetary policy in a proper way within the European Union. I would also point out to my colleague that we have been in monetary union with Germany for about 40 years. In 1983, Lubbers was, moreover, the last CDA Prime Minister to devalue effectively against the German mark and to regret it for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u79	Yeah, so first we de facto had the D-Mark. That was a lot better than the fact that we now have the lira de facto. That's exactly the point. That's what CDA and VVD did to our country. I was so positively surprised that Mr Omtzigt said that this is not sustainable in the long term. That was the beginning of some kind of insight, which I thought: hey, wait a minute, something is starting to happen. And so my question is: if this doesn't change, is he indeed in favour of getting out if it doesn't change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u80	Mr. Chairman. Let's get a few things straight. There is one MP here, Mr Baudet, and that is not Mr Baudet, who has been against the European Central Bank for six years, to the irritation of my D66 colleague...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u81	Oooo...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u82	...I have not received any compliments from him, unlike Mr Bosman, who has been unable to do so since the start of the buy-in programme. I continue to work to ensure that it is reversed. 'Cause that can just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u83	Then what is a term in your eyes, if you have been calling it for six years? You're just controlled on a six.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u84	Don't yell. We're just having a debate. Were you finished with your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u86	Okay. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u87	So you've been saying for six years... Well, I've been warning against the EU and the euro for over ten years. If you've been saying for six years that this is not sustainable in the long term, it's a very long term, isn't it? Because it's been going on for six years. It's been going on for years. There is no reason at all to think that this is ever going to stop, because we have not been able to reform the economies of southern Europe for 500 years. It's been completely different there for 500 years. Hence the huge conflicts that have been there, and that is why we came to our senses at some point: let us establish sovereign countries. So again the question: when did it take you long enough and you finally come to the conclusion that it is not going to work? How many more years? Another year? Two more years, three years? When? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u88	The interesting thing is that your previous question was: why do you bring it up for the first time? And the question is, why have you been talking about it for six years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u89	Last time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u90	It's done. Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. You were done already? This is not a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u91	I'm done. We are not in the process of reforming southern Europe for 500 years. Part of southern Europe is in the process of reform. I am now more concerned about France than about Italy, for many reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u92	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u93	So this is another trick, a detail. It is, of course, all of southern Europe. France, Italy, Spain, Greece; all these countries are dragging our economy down. If we are in a single currency union, we are going to pay. We keep seeing that, don't we? You yourself seem to have had the insight yourself before, and you are now saying out loud that this is not sustainable in the long term. My question is very simple: how much longer do you want to look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u94	You've already asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u95	You can answer that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u96	The CDA here, I believe, is about the only group... Even the foreman of the PVV did not vote against Greece's accession to the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u97	I think you have enough footage for a movie, so I'm gonna stop this. Last time it went exactly the same way and afterwards I didn't like it. I'm going to see Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u98	It's fine to be filmed here, but I point out that there are pieces cut out of it. We voted against it and I am still waiting for Mr Baudet's first legislative initiative. I have not yet seen an initiative law or an amendment from him while he was sitting here in the Chamber to change one of these things. In fact, when he was not in the Chamber, he managed to put more own-initiative papers here on the agenda than he did when he was in the Chamber. I think that's something he's accomplished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u99	No, no, Mr. Baudet, you can't say anything about it. Last time you attacked him one-sidedly and made a video of it. I'm not gonna reward that. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u100	I can assure you that at least my group will not be filming now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u101	Well, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u102	They know me a little bit, it's untransmitable. However, I have a question for Mr Omtzigt on the position of the CDA on the euro. Mr Omtzigt said here during the look-back debate on the European summit that he wanted to see scenarios worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u103	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u104	I have to say this: the European Union's financial, monetary and political policy, but also opt-outs. I think it is relevant to know what these opt-outs are about and why they really need to be worked out. Does the CDA want an opt-out from the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u105	No, an opt-out to new policies. That is what the WRR advocated in its report in 2018, namely that you sometimes end up at different speeds. But we believe that you are basically doing your best to participate in what is being agreed in Europe. But if you really can't do it, you should also have the opportunity to say no to certain agreements. We see that countries such as Denmark and Ireland are quite happy with the way they have done it at certain times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u106	Finally, Mr. Sjoersdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u107	I think we're doing a first term here, so I think we also have time to really seriously interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u108	No, this is really your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u109	I'm going to try, Madam President. That will depend on Mr Omtzigt. But I know he wants answers. Just to be sure, Mr Omtzigt just said that the CDA is for the euro. So no opt-out when it comes to the euro area as far as Mr Omtzigt is concerned? No opt-out for the Netherlands, no weird shit, just in the euro area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u110	No, opt-outs are about new cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u111	Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u112	We are in the eurozone. That seems like the logical place to want to stay. But the only thing I'm not doing is causing tension here in the Chamber. It sometimes seems that those who want to get out of the euro are the first to say that it is a free option to get out of the euro without having a plan for what to do and how to do it. And those who are in the euro say that there is no problem with the euro area at the moment. Both are completely beside the truth. I'm just saying that very loudly here. What the European Central Bank is doing with the buying-in policy of over 60% is not desirable. But what others are doing here by saying that we could conduct a monetary policy on our own is not an option either. That is why I am committed to reforms within the Union. When I say that I am committed to reforms within the European Union, and I do so in terms of human rights policy, I am also the one who does not just say that I am; then I really travel to Malta and Poland to see how I do. That's a little bit with the legs in the mud and getting your hands dirty instead of telling you exactly how to do it. But if we in the European Union do not have the courage to talk to each other about this, then we have the shortest way out of the European Union, and that is what I want to avoid here with all of us. Because that European Union is the only way that we as a European continent can still survive. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. No, Mr. Baudet, you can't say anything now. You'll have your turn soon, if it's all right with Mrs. Leijten. Then you can say what you want to say in four minutes. I call Mrs Leijten on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u114	Mr. Chairman. The President of the European Commission always holds a kind of speech of his own, the State of the Union. That was last week. It said that the Member States had gone from fear and division to greater trust and unity, under the direction of the Union. Does the Prime Minister recognize that trust and unity? And may I ask him what subject he recognizes? For example, on the discussion on the recovery fund, the discussion on respect for human rights and the rule of law? Perhaps in the area of simply condemning the hijacking of elections and throwing people who demonstrate not only into prison, but also into beating up, raped and without trial? We are, of course, talking about what is happening in Belarus. I don't see any unit. I don't see any trust. I see an embarrassing European Council, which cannot even stand alongside the people of Belarus for all kinds of reasons of power. A population that must have a choice for its own future. That future must not be decided by Russia, nor by the European Union, but it must be made possible by free choice. The call has already been made: if Cyprus does not want to join, we will go without Cyprus. I very much agree with that. I do not agree with the fact that you are now taking the next step and moving away from unanimity decisions, but I am in favour of going around it now. 'Cause I don't think I can do this. I don't think it's possible what's happening here. Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of business going on. If the European Council is talking about China and its relationship with China, then you cannot remain silent about what is happening to the Uighurs. I'd really like to go along with that. Back to the State of the Union. What struck me was that Mrs Von der Leyen, the President of the Commission, knows only one way, more so through European deepening and more so through Brussels and the European Commission. Actually, she's putting that ever closer union down pretty much everywhere, including health care. Health care is a national competence. Of course, we work together in developing tools or a vaccine. That's a partnership that makes sense. But I really am not waiting for a discussion at the Health Summit in Italy. She is literally talking about the issue of competence in the field of health care. I just want to ask the Prime Minister here if he still agrees that it's a national competence how to organise your health care and how it's paid for? That is not part of the internal market. The Netherlands says: we remain boss in our own country. I'm not in favour of the current health system. You know that, Mr President, but I think it is up to us to decide. Mr. Chairman. Another question that concerns the recovery fund. I saw that the European Council said that expenditure on COVID-19, the EU Health Programme, was not paid out of the recovery fund. I think that is very logical, because that fund would be for Member States and not for long-term programmes. You can already see that people are trying to make the recovery fund more permanent. Today, the European Central Bank is simply saying: make the common loans from the recovery fund a permanent part. What does the Prime Minister think of that? Then there's the statement. I've already made two interruptions on that point. I do not think the Prime Minister should sign it. The colleague of the VVD, Mr Bosman, talked about confidentiality when you are still negotiating, but this has just been established and negotiated. It says: an ever closer Union, all over the place. We're even going to have a new global economic governance. What's that? It's about 5G. Mr Omtzigt is right to say that this is about a European digital identity. It's super concrete. It's about us, but it's happening behind closed doors. It cannot be tested by scientists whether all this is allowed under the European Union Treaty. We can't let anyone watch. The Prime Minister said a year and a half ago that the declaration on the future of the European Union was all about intentions, that it was nothing at all. We said at the time that it was a big deal. That will be the basis for further policy-making. That's what we're seeing here. I actually think that the Prime Minister should call the President of the European Council. Video calls could be too. It seems to be very difficult because the European Council must be postponed for a week. It must be made public. He has to say: my Parliament has been wanting transparency for a long time and I want to make it public. We don't have anything to hide anyway. If they're all such good plans, make it public. I think the Chamber would like to discuss it. There's a lot of digitization in it. There will be a digital compass in spring 2021. The European Commission is going to make policy. How can we be sure that this will not be in the hands of the big lobbyists of the tech companies? The Google and Facebooks already make sure that the news on those platforms is affected by all those algorithms. Those companies aren't gonna be a part of that digital compass, are they? That's what I want to know. Finally, Mr President, the Brexit. I haven't heard many speakers about it. Indeed, only Mr Omtzigt. Next week, 1 October, the European Commission's ultimatum will be for Great Britain. Great Britain is a bit stuck. The question is whether it wants an agreement and, if so, how. What's the status? We have two Brexit rapporteurs who simply asked for a stand of business letter. I didn't see that letter. He came so short before the debate, I couldn't see him. I would like to know the position of the Netherlands here. How does that position relate to others? Are we still satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations with Mr Banier? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u115	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u116	Hello, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u117	Hello, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u118	It's cozy. I have here the Marrakesh Pact 2 which has been presented today. Two years ago, we held a major debate in the Netherlands on the first Marrakesh Pact, an immigration pact aimed at encouraging legal migration to Europe from Africa and the Middle East. It was actually an open invitation to people from those parts of the world to come here. This is also constantly the rhetoric of the European Union. It is constantly stressed that diversity is the goal, that our future will be one of the fusion of all peoples. The current Commissioner for Migration, her name is Ylva Johansson, I quote: "We have an extra one point five million people coming to the European Union every year." These are therefore 1 to 1.5 million immigrants per year for the European Union. We need it. That's how the quote goes through... because we're an ageing population. We need more immigration. Where'd it come from? Of course from Africa and the Middle East. So 1 to 1.5 million a year, every year, that's what they want. This will therefore mean a structural demographic transformation of Europe. That means the end of Europe as it has existed for two thousand years. That's what these people want. Two years ago we could hide behind some sort of legal trick. Then they said: yes, but it is not entirely binding; there is no one who can enforce it. We said at the time: "Guys, that's a trick. There will of course be a follow-up pact. They're gonna tighten this up. They're gonna turn the thumb screws." And yes, here it is. It's binding, though. The European Union will soon be able to force us to accept people. Only under certain conditions, which the EU then determines, can we try to do something about it, with begging and so on. But the gentlemen and masters of our immigration policy will soon be in Brussels. We won't be ourselves anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u119	I have a feeling there's some things going on with Mr. Baudet. Does Mr Baudet know about the Amsterdam Treaty of 1999? Does he know what's in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u120	I know it, but I can't recite it completely by heart, if that's what you mean. I know in general what it says, but I'm sure you have a specific article in mind, so I'd like to invite you to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u121	That is the beginning of the Common European Asylum System. That's 20 years old. The European Union renews, strengthens, improves and changes European asylum policy continuously. So I do not understand the fuss that Mr Baudet is making about the text that the European Union has now come up with. That's basically nothing special. It's an improvement and an innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u122	It is an increase and centralization of the project which has indeed been going on for decades and which we call the European project, the project of European unification. I therefore agree with myself that this was of course already present in the bud in previous treaties. So that's where we can find each other. We're probably different about the rating we give it. I am against it, and you are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u123	There's nothing better than defending and protecting your external borders. In my view, the European Union only makes that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u124	Marrakesh 2 wants migration! From Africa!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mr. Baudet... Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u126	That is not protecting the external borders!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u127	Mr Bosman spoke. He asks a question and then you will have the opportunity to answer it if you wish, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u128	I believe in a European Union that is strong, which strengthens and protects the external borders and thus makes us all better and stronger. Mr Baudet apparently chooses that his external border runs along Delfzijl, Venlo and Biervliet. And then he hopes that he will be able to limit immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u129	It's not about restricting immigration. It's very important to say that here. It is, of course, election time, so I understand that the VVD has been instructed by Kees Berghuis to say very often in public that one is against immigration. But you're not. You've ruled for ten years and broken immigration record after immigration record for ten years. The purpose of this Marrakech immigration pact is to encourage and promote immigration from Africa and the Middle East. So it is not about protecting the external borders. It's not about stopping immigration. It's about organizing immigration. I am fine with you saying 'I want to', but just say it honestly and do not pretend that it is about defending or protecting the external borders. That is not the point at all. The point is to encourage immigration. Mrs Johansson, whom I have just quoted, herself said that we need 1 to 1.5 million people from Africa and the Middle East every year. That's what they want. It is 'wir purchase tie' on a European scale!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u130	Then I remember a statement by Mr Baudet during the General Political Reviews, in an explanation of vote, in which he said that he was okay with people coming from Islamic countries to the Netherlands. No problem, said Mr Baudet literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u131	No, I didn't say that literally, even in that context. It may be that I have used the words "no" and "problem," but then really in a different context. The point was and is that I think we should be in favour of an Australian or an Israeli immigration model, because that is the same principle and that as a country you say: we want, of course, to have the opportunity to offer specific groups of people who, under certain circumstances, meet our values or who we want to help, a place in the Netherlands. These could be white farmers in South Africa, for example, who are victims of some kind of genocide going on there. Or it could be people from other parts of the world who have certain qualities. That has always been our position. That is something completely different from what the European Union is doing here. Mr Bosman is clearly looking for something he has prepared, so I can continue to explain a few other things, then he can then take this...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u132	Finally, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u133	It's very simple. Mr Baudet has just said it literally. I can't find it that fast, but I would advise everyone to take a look back at the debate, and so would Mr. Baudet. 'Cause he just said it literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u134	Well, again, I must have used the words "no" and "problem" once in the House of Representatives. But what I meant had nothing to do with the Marrakech immigration pact, with the EU's policy of bringing people from Africa and the Middle East to the Netherlands via an air bridge and giving them all kinds of rights, not being able to expel them and allowing them to stay here forever, to bring their families here, to establish their Islam here and so on, and so on. All these things, that's not what I think, and I've never argued that way. Quote me, Mr. Bosman. Take it, then. You prepared it, didn't you? I can see all those leaves over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mr. Van Ojik, talk to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u136	What a piece of shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u137	Mr. Baudet, are you okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u138	Testing, testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u139	Mr Van Ojik, say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u140	Yes, please, because I have a question for Mr Baudet. He is very excited, but when I entered this afternoon's debate, Mrs Johansson was just in the process, and I saw on some screen, to present that new migration plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u141	It's fresh from the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u142	I was wondering if Mr Baudet had read it. I tried to read it very quickly, and I didn't find anything in that plan about a plan to bring new migrants to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u143	For example, chapter 6.6, page 22, second paragraph. Someone was trying to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u144	You want to fix something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u145	It is well-learned to mention that paragraph number, but that is not legislation. Mr Baudet can say that, but it is not about legislation. It's not a proposal, it's not going to apply here. My group would have liked to see binding things in it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u146	Mr. Sjoerdsma!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u147	What do you mean, no legislation? What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u148	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u149	He says so. Why don't you let him explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u150	He already has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u151	No, he posted something, and I asked him if he could explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u152	As far as I am concerned, Mr Sjoerdsma can explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u153	As far as I'm concerned, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u154	Not as far as I'm concerned. I'm talking about interruptions. Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u155	It's very learned to mention such an article, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u156	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u157	I don't need to be president. I was thinking more about sitting there later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u158	I am afraid that Article 57 and Article 6, which Mr Baudet was talking about, are now getting a little confused. But perhaps he can say what the European Commission's new proposal says about what he is so excited about, because that would imply that we are going to bring a lot of migrants to Europe, Mr Baudet said, 1 to 1.5 million. I have only read that proposal very superficially and quickly, I say quite honestly, so it may be that I have read about it. Then what does it say that justifies Mr Baudet's excitement at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u159	Well, I did just mention section 6.6, so from page 22. I don't know if you have it there, so you can watch. That's where it starts: it's supposed to develop pathways, so roads through which immigration can develop. Then it goes on, on page 24, for example, that we have an ageing population and that we would need immigration to compensate for shortcomings in all kinds of sectors, which are then mentioned. That is why we need immigration. Look, it's already happening, it's on page 24. I translate while I read it, because the text is in English. Then it is said that in 2018 we already issued almost 1 million first residence permits, i.e. residence permits. These people hold vital positions in our countries. The European Union is now losing because we have too little immigration, it says. Then it goes on on page 25: we have to do more to increase it. One page further, on page 26, it's about inclusiveness. So that's from chapter 8; Sjoerdsma wondered where it was exactly. In fact, we are talking about multiculturalism, what we now call the fight against racism. But it has nothing to do with racism, because people simply have equal rights in our countries, and that is not an issue at all. But under the guise of combating racism, multiculturalism is actually promoted. That goes on for a while and then point 9 and the concluding comments on page 28. It says that we therefore need a strong legal framework to give mutual trust. That just means facilitating immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u160	We are undoubtedly going to have this debate another time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u161	I applied for it, but I didn't get it. Would you support it again next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u162	Mr. Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u163	I'm definitely gonna back it up. I have often said to Mr Baudet that it is a very good thing for the Marrakesh Pact, and I have also supported a request for a debate that we are discussing here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u164	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u165	That a proposal is being made here to provide migration with a legal framework... I'd almost say, "Who could be against that?" Do you prefer that people by smugglers in wrecked boats with fear of their own lives and after they have given all their possessions to a smuggler eventually arrive uncontrolled on the European coast?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u166	Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u167	Or are you in favour of regulating migration? That is a very important question. I'm in favour of regulating migration. The picture, and that is what I asked Mr Baudet about, is that a plan has now been presented here in which the European Commission is indeed not yet the Member States say 'we open the gates and you are all welcome', is far from the truth. This proposal from the European Commission is important because it is trying to put an end to the chaos and lawlessness that currently prevails in the areas of asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u168	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u169	I hope we will have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u170	You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u171	I think it's about the who, the what and the how. Who has the final right to decide on immigration? A legal framework within the EU means that the EU will ultimately decide that. You can see that already, by the way. Hungary, Poland and other countries that want to stop the structural demographic transformation and thus the end of Europe are bully and oppressed in all possible ways. That's one. So who is the EU instead of ourselves in the Netherlands? Then the what: much or little? There's no doubt about that. All the oranges in the EU summit want more migration. These are post-national people who want to destroy national identities, and this can only be done through a great deal of immigration. That is why they are in favour of this, and they are making up all kinds of arguments for it, such as ageing, crisis, humanitarian and so on. But the point is that they want more immigration. And then there's the how. So that is once again with an agenda of multiculturalism, oikophobia, self-loathing, a road-with-us mentality and putting on a pedestal all those new identities, religions, holidays and so on that way. I would say that, across the board, this does not leave anything to be desired. This is simply an EU grip on power to complete the attack on the nation state. I am talking about it now and I am happy with all these interruptions. I have a few minutes left to talk about this, I see. I would also like to mention what else is happening next to all the hecticness of corona now, because I think it is so important that we dwell on this. Because this is really a new step in this power grip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u172	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u173	But I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u174	I don't. I suggest you move on. No, Mr. Sjoerdsma, we made arrangements. You've been through your interruptions a long time. Proceed, Mr. Baudet. Please continue. Or are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u175	Well, no, but I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u176	I'm in charge of the interruptions. I am not giving Mr Sjoerdsma the opportunity to interrupt because we have agreed to do so. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u177	In any case, I am always open to debate, especially on this subject, which I find extremely important. I invite Mr Sjoerdsma to discuss this with me at another time. At the beginning of this summer, as a country, we also agreed to a huge transfer of money. The pretext corona is interesting. Corona was therefore the reason to finally adopt these Eurobonds. They are simply not intended to compensate the victims of corona in countries that are relatively little affected, but above all to subsidise a basic income in Spain, to finance increases in wages, for example in health care in southern Europe, in France, etc. That's context number one that takes place. The second is that the Netherlands, as the only country in the euro area, has a huge pension savings fund and that countries with a large savings fund have an interest in good interest rates. That is precisely what the European Central Bank has been structuralally undermining in recent years because the majority of euro area countries are in debt. If you're in debt, you have an interest in a very low interest rate. It will then gradually disappear, while, of course, the savings will also be reduced. But that's the small Netherlands. Dutch interests are therefore squandered and not respected by the European Central Bank. That is why I very much welcome the recent announcement that the SP too is now opposed to this disastrous euro. I would like to congratulate Mrs Leijten on that. That seems to me to be a very good development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u178	It was a compliment, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u179	We have a lot of debates here in this house, and I understand very well that you cannot be everywhere with a group of two Members. If Mr Baudet and the journalists who supposedly saw this as a new position, just the debates on the Ecofin and the Eurogroup and my commitment to what we had been doing with the deepening of the euro, they would have known that this is not a new position at all and that we have been asking for a plan B for a long time. But that has become much more urgent because it is precisely the deepening of the currency union that is now taking place and you have less and less of a way back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u180	Then you have made this point clear. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u181	I am pleased, because the support for leaving the euro and intelligent retirement is in any case being seen more and more widely. Let us at least note that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u182	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u183	More and more? We were not in favour of the introduction and have always approached it very critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u184	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u185	We have always had a different position during the previous financial crisis and the so-called rescue of Greece. You welcome us as if we were joining your group, but that's not how I feel. We have always done this analysis, but we only think it is urgent now. Nor do we say 'one-sided exit' or 'the guilder back'. No, we must now look for other economies, such as Germany, Finland and perhaps Austria, in order to create a currency union with us. One final addition: we are not doing this because we hate Italy or Greece so much, but because we also see that it would be better for them to have their own currency union because they would then have much more sovereignty over the measures they can take for their economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u186	You have also made this point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u187	Okay. Well, then I notice that the SP is halfway through the full insight. The SP is against the euro, but not yet for its own national currency. I'll put my hopes on that for the time to come. It seems to me exciting to see if after the 17 March elections we can at least find a majority in the Chamber that is not in favour of continuing on this road. Because that could at least be a start. Finally, I would like to say one thing. It talks about the Brexit negotiations and it is said that it may become a no-deal scenario. I think that would be best. And it would be very good if the Netherlands would also engage in bilateral contacts with the United Kingdom. The Netherlands has a number of unique overlaps with the United Kingdom, for example with regard to fisheries. I would like to call on the Prime Minister and his cabinet to invest in this relationship in one way or another in order to ensure that at least the Dutch interests are best served. Of course, there are enormous opportunities, huge opportunities. The United Kingdom is also likely to conclude a very attractive trade agreement with the United States. So there's a lot to come; there's a lot of news in it. I hope that the Prime Minister will not only look at Brussels to maintain contacts with the United Kingdom on our behalf, but also, above all, bilaterally from the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u188	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u189	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. The European Union's external relations are on the agenda of the delayed European summit. This means, in the view of the Christian Union, an opportunity for the Prime Minister to advocate respect for the rule of law, tackling gross human rights violations and promoting the international legal order. This is even an obligation for the government, on the basis of our Constitution, to do so. I would like to ask the Prime Minister this first question: does the Prime Minister think that this opportunity should be seized? Colleagues also mentioned Belarus. The Christian Union has incredibly much appreciation for the people of Belarus who are fighting for free democracy and a just rule of law, but they face arrests, torture and lack of freedom. This calls for European Union sanctions directed at the regime. So far, they're out. The summit has now been postponed. There was a chance tomorrow. I'll ask the Prime Minister what we're doing in the meantime. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to relations with Turkey. Turkey does not respect the internationally recognised maritime borders of Greece and Cyprus and is drilling for gas in its territorial waters. The cabinet writes that dialogue and negotiations are needed. But that leads to the question: is there currently no agreement on these borders and international law on this issue? I would ask for a clarification of this passage in the cabinet letter. In the case of continuous Turkish activities, the cabinet does not continue to exclude additional measures, including the effectiveness of any measures. What exactly does this mean for the use of the cabinet? Are we not gonna act until the Turks don't listen? I'm really asking for action from the Prime Minister here. And does he agree with me that further sanctions against Turkey are appropriate if there is another drilling or other economic activity in Greek or Cypriot territorial waters? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the relationship between the European Union and China. The negotiations on a joint investment agreement are virtually stuck. It is reported that the response of the Chinese was when human rights were discussed: "Europe should be more concerned about its own civil rights." EU foreign representative Borrell said this year: "We have been too naive and there is a need for a sound of our own from the European Union." I ask the Prime Minister to put more emphasis on the importance of human rights in the negotiations with China and in the relationship between the European Union and China. I also ask the Prime Minister whether he is convinced that this dialogue could be successful. And I ask for his concrete commitment on behalf of the Netherlands. Will the position of the Uighurs, who are constantly oppressed, be emphasized? On the issue of the position of persecuted Christians in China, too, I strongly ask for the government's commitment. Mr. Chairman. We need to come to more than just expressing concerns. We need targeted sanctions, perhaps against individuals, to call for or perhaps even legislation on the clean-up of production chains and the elimination of forced labour. And perhaps there should be a discussion at European level by the Minister about the possible economic sanctions against China, in order to get them off the ground. I ask about the Prime Minister's commitment to this summit. What'll that be? Mr. Chairman. The President of the European Commission held the State of the European Union. There was a great deal in that story: a climate approach, a new migration pact, which has just been presented, and also a firm approach to human rights violations. Colleagues also asked: one of the plans is a European Health Union. I ask for the response of this cabinet. Does the government agree with the Christian Union that health policy and public health is really a national matter? It is important to work together at European level, as we have seen in the corona crisis, but we must keep it as a national matter. I will conclude with comments on the Brexit. It took three years to reach a withdrawal agreement with the British. Looks like we're throwing that out right now. That is unacceptable and very risky. The British are also putting their trust on the line. I ask the Prime Minister: can we sign an agreement on the future relationship with the United Kingdom if this threat, to violate the withdrawal agreement, is hanging over the market and is still on the table? I also ask the Prime Minister, in conclusion, about the ongoing rumours that there is a compromise on fisheries. I think it is very important that we are informed about this as a Chamber. I ask the Prime Minister to explain this. What can he share about that now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u190	Thank you. There's a request for a half-hour suspension. That's fine. Then I'll suspend until 3:45. And that's all we're talking about is the first term, isn't it? That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u191	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I actually want to do it in such a way that I say something about the answer as such; that is what I am doing right away. But Mr Omtzigt is not here for a moment, and it is actually an answer to him. So let me reconstruct it. I wanted to answer the questions that are really about the summit itself, so that is all that has to do with strategic autonomy. And then I think it would be wise for me to talk about China in that context too, because of course there is also a connection there, and of course there is also an internal and external connection. After that, I will come and, strangely enough, there is now a political link between Belarus and Turkey. We could never have thought of that, but that link is now political, so I wanted to take those questions together. And then there are three other issues that I will come back to: all the questions about the European budget and the rule of law, which are not at this summit; the Brexit; and then there are a bunch of remaining questions. I have the impression that we'll have everything under fire. Now, in the direction of Mr Omtzigt. My answer to him would indeed have been that at this summit it was about the issues I mentioned, where Brexit is briefly discussed, but more in the sense of a sort of state of affairs. So there is not a whole debate on this. Yeah, that's actually that. Good. First of all, I come to the issue of strategic autonomy. To begin with, I would like to say the following. We're committed to... There's Mr. Omtzigt. Mr Omtzigt, I just wanted to tell you that Brexit is on the agenda for a short time; not the budget, but Brexit. I will take many other issues into account in the answer, but they will not be discussed at this summit. The group of wise men, which Mr Omtzigt asked for, is in contact with the one who brought up this idea. Together with the Minister of Finance and I, the agreement has been made to go through with this once more, so that we can make the best of it. That is what we are working on, and we are trying to do so in the short term. Then there's the strategic autonomy. I have just said that at this whole summit, the external and the internal are, in fact, two sides of the same coin. We want a resilient European Union, capable of safeguarding its public interests, to be economically competitive, within a functioning, global, world trade system. This means that we must ensure that there is an open economy in the world. And so we must also ensure international cooperation. This helps us in our prosperity, a core task of the European Union: market and currency, but also a community of values. And this embedding in that community of values also, of course, does, not directly because we have NATO, but indirectly for security. We're not alone in the world like this, and we're sitting at the table with like-minded people. That is why the internal market is so important, and that is where the internal market comes into play. There were questions here, and I'll get right to it: how do you deal with state aid? Well, state aid in the European Union is, of course, once again a mirrored issue of state aid to companies outside the European Union; how can you influence that? Of course, in addition to the internal market, independent competition law is also essential. At the same time, Europe must increase its resilience and reduce its strategic dependencies. I think that was also a theme in the General Political Reviews last week. And with that, I would say, increasing our strategic autonomy is not an end in itself, but a means of strengthening our resilience. Then you have, from the strategic imperative, a strategy to achieve a social-political goal. That is why I think it is right that the forthcoming European Council should discuss the coherence between the internal market and the position of Europe in the world. This brings me to two issues which also partly overlapped in the various questions raised by the Chamber, namely, on the one hand, the issues of state aid and the international level playing field, but at the same time, many concrete questions about China, which is on the agenda of this European summit. I come now to those questions. One of these questions was: what is the next step to ward off the influence of third country companies with state aid from our internal market? Mr Sjoerdsma asked that question. There's a variety of trajectories here. The most recent is the White Paper on subsidies from third countries. The cabinet welcomes this White Paper. The appreciation of that has been sent to the Chamber. The Commission is expected to present a proposal in 2021 on the basis of input to this White Paper "White Paper'. This comes on top of existing EU legislation, for example on competition, in order to achieve a level playing field in the internal market. One can see that the World Trade Organisation is also looking at combating, for example, industrial subsidies, but often the multilateral approach is the long way off. We have to be honest with each other about that, too. All in all, these actions are, in our opinion, increasing the level playing field. Against the same backdrop, there is Mr Bosman's question about how to deal with state funding, or with companies from third countries supported by the state. Within the European Union, there are, of course, agreements on state financing and state ownership. That doesn't have to be bad. In the Netherlands, look at a company like the transmission system operator TenneT. There are good reasons for strong government responsibility. Then a disturbance of the market from a general interest can be argued. Then, of course, there are systems in Europe to monitor them properly. But these agreements do not always apply to companies operating in our internal market from third countries. Then, of course, it is important that things are straightened out, so that the same rules apply to all businesses in the internal market, whether they come from outside or from within. This is where it becomes important, because clear rules have been established within the European Union concerning state-owned companies and state-owned financing. They will, of course, disturb the European market and the internal market as little as possible, but at the same time you have to be extremely careful that companies from outside do not do so. They don't necessarily have to be bad. A state-owned company from country X, Y or Z does not have to be a problem in itself, provided that this does not lead to an unfair competitive advantage. That brings me to the question of what European companies can do against stealing information that creates companies that compete European companies away. First of all, of course, it is forbidden, by definition, to steal information. Companies need to protect themselves well. That's the first path. The second is that if there is a break, they can go to court, for example when it comes to violations in the field of intellectual property rights, theft and so on. But there is also a role for governments. They can help with information and appeal to countries. Of course, the entire diplomatic channel can help with this. In addition, there is the cybersanction regime. That can also be helpful in the event of theft. How do we protect our market from hostile takeovers in critical infrastructure? I think that is a very important issue, because a large part of that critical infrastructure is of course in the hands of the public authorities, but at the same time it should be mentioned here that there are several sectoral investment tests to counter unwanted investments and acquisitions. This is true, for example, of the telecommunications market. There is also a generic investment test in place to ensure national security when it is at stake, in the case of takeovers of companies which are essential to our vital processes or which are active in the field of highly sensitive technologies. It has also been asked whether the investment agreement offers sufficient guarantees to counter unfair competition in the internal market. We will be discussing China in a moment, so I would like to involve it in that. One more general question about the world trade system, from Mr Omtzigt, but also from others, such as Mrs Leijten, namely: what is meant by a global economic trading system under the direction of the WTO? I think we should see this as follows, but I will, of course, check that further at the European Council. We are not discussing a new global economic system under the leadership of the WTO, so not a sort of Bilderberg plus conspiracy. This is a European ambition to strengthen global multilateral trading systems, with an important role for the WTO. This is also in line with the government's commitment, so it is not intended to organise a kind of round of tables here. Those words are a little confusing. I understand that, too. When I read it myself, I thought, "What are they referring to?" At that time I also read the things that we are not allowed to quote here. But this is my interpretation. I'm gonna check that, of course. That is what we shall return to in the European Council's report. Having said that, I come more specifically to a number of issues relating to China, for example whether the investment agreement and human rights are separate routes or not. My firm answer to this is: no, these are not separate routes. In bilateral contacts with China, also recently during the visit of the Chinese State Council and the Foreign Minister to the Netherlands in August, we always discuss human rights violations in China on the one hand because they have a universal interest as such, but we also point out that improving human rights in China is important to enable trade between China and the Netherlands. In addition, I would like to go back to the issue of the Uighurs in greater detail and to make specific reference to human rights violations in that area, to these serious facts, because they can cause concern for critical consumers in Europe. That is not the main argument, but it does not help China, of course, if this kind of concern that exists internationally leads to concerns for critical consumers. The Europe-China dialogue was also called for. We also advocate this link in this dialogue. This is, of course, a consistent theme. We are talking about human rights in any case, but we also point out to countries that attach great importance to strong economies that it is very important for companies to be able to count on the existence in countries of functioning legal systems that cannot suddenly deprive a company of ownership rights and that cannot confront its staff with human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u193	Just a minute. What is the terminology used by the Dutch government for what is happening to the Uighurs in China? Because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u194	A lot of questions have been asked about that, so I wanted to do that separately in a moment. But I can do it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u195	Oh, but I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u196	Well, then let me highlight it right away. The coverage of Uighur forced labour is very disturbing. This was also raised by the Foreign Minister in the discussion with Wang Yi, the Chinese Foreign Minister, on 26 August. The European Union has also expressed these concerns. We continue to draw companies' attention to their responsibility for international corporate social responsibility, in accordance with the OECD guidelines for multinational companies. We are actively pointing out the risks of doing business in China. The application of due diligence, in accordance with these directives, is, of course, first and foremost the responsibility of those companies themselves. Companies operating in a context with risks in the field of international corporate social responsibility, such as forced labour, are expected to always be willing to be open to their decision to operate in this context and to be able to justify that decision. As you know, we are reviewing the international framework and social enterprise policy. This review takes into account how companies can prevent or address abuses. The specific question was asked: how are we going to raise these issues? We raise this at every Human Rights Council, under agenda item 4, which addresses the most serious violations. At the highest level, these issues are also addressed by the European Union in talks with China, also recently in the meeting between the President of the European Council, the Commission and China's leadership. On 30 June, in a joint statement in the UN Human Rights Council with 27 other countries, we reiterated our concerns about arbitrary detentions, widespread surveillance and restrictions aimed in particular at Uighurs and other minorities in Xinjiang. It also reiterated its call for early and meaningful access to this region for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. We are also working here on the Koopmans motion, ensuring that the European Union speaks out against intimidation of, among other things, the Uighur diaspora. We see that happening. As I said, these messages have also been sent by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in contact with his colleague in office from Beijing. So much for the Uighur issue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u197	Then I have Mr Omtzigt, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Ploumen. I understand that Mr Omtzigt would like to be the last. Then we'll go to Mr. Sjoerdsma first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u198	That was also exactly my question from the first term: what qualification does the Prime Minister use this cabinet for what is happening in China to the Uighurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u199	We regard this as a violation of human rights, particularly in relation to what I have already said, namely arbitrary detentions, widespread surveillance and restrictions on the Uighurs and, moreover, against other minorities in Xinjiang. So those are the terms we use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u200	That they are human rights violations, we can even see that from space. It can be read from satellite images. When it comes to forced sterilization, when tons of hair are found in a ship, when there is large-scale forced labour, when there are large-scale disappearances, when in fact the entire culture of a particular minority is destroyed, then they are indeed human rights violations. But in my head, other words still come out. In my head words are coming out that we have heard before in history, which we would say: let us not let that happen. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister here, while ignoring the merely contemplative fact that they are human rights violations, whatever qualification any legal qualification the cabinet uses for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u201	I have an idea where you're going with this, but we don't use that term. We have many very worrying indications for this, but not to start using that term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u202	Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to explain what term he is talking about and what he has no clues for using that term. Otherwise we will have a bit of a shady debate here. This is, of course, at the heart of the matter. That's why I'm going to that qualification. This is about very serious human rights violations. Some people are talking about the destruction of a culture, which comes close to crimes against humanity, and perhaps genocide. And then the question is whether, because this is China, we speak with more flour than we should and whether our measures are not weaker than they should be. So my question to the Prime Minister is: why doesn't he think so? He has a lot of measures on corporate social responsibility. And at your service. Companies also have a responsibility, but so do we. And to be perfectly honest: I'm not awake from much, but from this, from what's happening here, I'm awake. So that's my question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u203	I'll share that. I would also like to point out that the Netherlands is one of the few countries that consistently raise this issue. There are a lot of countries that don't do that in their relationship with China. This is always raised at the highest levels. That is why we are also calling for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to be given access. We insist at all that there should be access to this region so that we are also able to see what is happening there. I also agree that these are indications of very serious human rights violations, including all the other qualifications I give.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u204	I now have Mr Van Ojik. Mr. Ommzigt, you wanted to be the last to interrupt. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u205	Maybe even a few moments apart from what qualification you use for it, however important it may be, and regardless of whether you are talking about systematic violations of human rights, crimes against humanity or genocide, we know what is happening in Xinjiang. Then I come to the point where the Prime Minister refers to the own responsibility of companies. We know that in many cases companies do not take that responsibility. Unless you say: it's not so bad that you're using Uighur forced labourers to import clothes from China or that you're exporting facial recognition or emotional recognition devices to China, which you know can be used in Xinjiang. Just pointing out that companies' own responsibility, the duty of companies to comply with the OECD guidelines, did not seem to have helped to stop this accessory to what is happening there. So I would ask the Prime Minister, regardless of the qualification he uses, to use at least the qualification'systematic violation of human rights'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u206	Something about those companies. That was also Mr Van Ojik's question about surveillance technology. In all cases, the use of Dutch technology to suppress population groups or violate human rights is at least undesirable. In the case of licensed dual-use goods, for which companies have to apply for an export licence from the Dutch government, for example, and if the company is not punishable, the Dutch Government rejects a licence if there are concerns that such goods could actually be used.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now the point is that the software of the company to which Mr Van Ojik referred is not covered by that dual-use regulation. However, Dutch companies that respond to the Chinese demand for advanced technology, because that is of course the question that Mr Van Ojik asks as a follow-up to it as part of their due diligence, to which they are naturally attached, should therefore always be aware of the possible undesirable applications. And then, of course, we will deal with the issues that also offer our frameworks. These are the OECD and the United Nations guidelines. What the Cabinet is doing is examining the need to extend export control on cyber surveillance goods. That's what we're doing. We investigate the nature and applications of the technologies behind this type of surveillance. We are also looking at the risk of them being used for human rights violations, and we are looking at the need to bring certain types of technology into line with, of course, established parameters, if necessary, under export control. A letter of formal notice was sent by Minister Kaag on 16 July 2020. So that's what we're doing. And with this we also want to gain more control over this type of technology, of which, strictly speaking, this company does not now supply dual-use and therefore does not fall under such an export licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u207	With all due respect, that's a bit of a circular reasoning. If we did qualify it as a dual use, we would need an export licence and that company might not have received that export licence. But that export licence was not needed now, because someone thought that this particular delivery was not dual-use goods. We can, of course, maintain the loopholes that exist in existing legislation indefinitely. I read the letter the Minister referred to on 16 July, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u208	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u209	I know Minister Kaag is working on it. Mr Sjoerdsma and I have tabled a motion together, which has been adopted, which says: if it takes too long to regulate the European affair, the Netherlands may have to take stricter measures of that kind, all in the service of prevention... The Prime Minister does not know and I do not know whether or not a good we deliver to China is being used for wrong purposes. We have to be honest about that. If we deliver equipment that allows you to recognize emotions, capture identities, etcetera, etcetera, and do facial recognition, then we don't know what China is going to use them for. Neither does the Prime Minister. Better safe than sorry: not to leave it to the individual judgment of companies, but to set rules for themselves. If that is not possible at European level, I would like to refer to the Sjoerdsma/Van Ojik or Van Ojik/Sjoerdsma motion, which I would like to point out, and we are doing so as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u210	Yeah, so that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u211	The Prime Minister says yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u212	"Yes" as in: I hear you. And "yes" as in: that on July 16th that letter was not sent for nothing either by Minister Kaag. I can't verify whether that happened on the motion or separately from the motion, but I suspect she thought, "Sjoerdsma? Okay. But if Van Ojik is underneath, I have to do something." That letter was sent for a reason. She is therefore examining exactly what Mr Van Ojik is describing here, namely whether, in this type of case, where there is a real risk that there may be surveillance-like applications in the sense that this can also be used to enable human rights violations, you must say: there must be more export control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u213	My third question, Mr President, I know. I know the Secretary of State at BuHa-OS is investigating that. I also know of her intentions. I have no reason to doubt that those intentions are good. We can continue to investigate endlessly whether anything is possible, but in the meantime we import clothes made by Uighur forced labourers in Xinjiang. Meanwhile, we supply equipment that can be used for spying on the Uighurs. Those are the facts. Unfortunately, I cannot change these facts, and I ask the Prime Minister and the Cabinet to use everything they have at their disposal to prevent this from happening. One of those tools is research. That can and must happen sometimes, but at some point you have to say: now I've examined it and now I'm going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u214	Yeah, fine, but this letter's only from the summer. It's not like it's all going so slow. I think she's working on this fast. Maybe I can say something more general about how you deal with imports and exports. The EU-China Investment Treaty under way will include a chapter on trade and sustainable development. The aim is to create a chapter that has an ambition level that is in line with the other trade agreements that the European Union is concluding. The European Commission is working on this and we are following it closely. It contains agreements on the protection of labour rights and multilateral environmental agreements. OECD guidelines on corporate social responsibility should also be included. Civil society also has a major role to play in monitoring compliance with these agreements. We very much support the European Commission in this, I thought in line with the debates that have taken place here. We attach importance to the effective implementation of such agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u215	Mrs Ploumen and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u216	I would like to go further on this point. Let us note that it is a good thing that the Dutch Government raises the issue of Uighurs bilaterally and at EU level and in the Human Rights Council. I would recommend to the Cabinet: keep doing so and seek allies there, because this pressure needs to be increased slowly. There is a second route, one might say, which you should now run in parallel, now that we find that Dutch companies may be importing products that have been created with Uighur forced labour. Everything points to that. Then you have all kinds of rules, the OECD et cetera, the Prime Minister called them, but did the Dutch government ever invite those clothing companies to the office to talk about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u217	Now we are very deeply in a colleague's portfolio. I have to say this anyway. Then we're gonna try to fix it. I had come here with the idea that we are going to talk about the European Council next week, but we are now very deeply in the relationship between the Netherlands and China.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u218	That's always the case with these spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u219	No, that's fine too, I appreciate that too, but the relationship between the Netherlands and China is not on the agenda next week and I am now being asked whether the Netherlands is inviting this type of company. Then we're really in a colleague's wallet, and I just don't know. It could be, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u220	What we are doing here is actually the same thing when we ask the Prime Minister and the Dutch cabinet, namely every opportunity, every instrument, every moment to seize the situation of the Uighurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u221	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u222	There are many routes for this and we are now using the opportunity to ask these questions to the Prime Minister. We put them in writing and got a bit of a nothing answer. We put them in AO's and then we hear: it's brought in. This is an opportunity for us to make concrete suggestions to the Prime Minister and to question him sharply on how the Prime Minister sees the escalation ladder towards China when it comes to forced labour by the Uighurs and possible crimes against humanity. That's actually the question. We just want to know if the cabinet really does everything. Sometimes everything is something small that can have a lot of impact. That's why I want to ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u223	I am not saying that the suggestion is nonsense, on the contrary, but I do not know whether it is happening now. In any case, I will ask the administration to pass that part of the stenography report on to the relevant minister. Then perhaps she or Stef Blok, whichever of the two actually considers this, will be able to discuss this particular suggestion in a subsequent debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u224	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u225	But more generally, I think, on a broad palette, I have outlined what we are doing, whether it is about surveillance equipment, what we are discussing bilaterally, what we are discussing in the Human Rights Council, how we are trying to influence that also in the European debate on the implementation of the Investment Treaty, the European Commission remains on course. These are all tools we have to try to influence this process. But of course it starts with the fact that not 27 countries do this, but that the world community does this. So far, it is only a limited number of countries that are calling for attention to be given to this. The Netherlands is one of the few countries in the Western world and that is not good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u226	Mrs Ploumen, that will be your fourth question, and the Prime Minister has just begun. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u227	Mr. Chairman. A few sentences back, the Prime Minister said at once that companies should be able to explain when they do business with Xinjiang and with the factories where the Uighurs are terribly employed. Does the Prime Minister consider it possible that there can be a good explanation for why a Dutch company imports clothes from these factories, where forced labour is carried out and the like? Or does the Prime Minister think that in the meantime we have so much evidence that we should stop doing business with the factories in which these people are required to work, are being held captive, where sterilizations and other things take place? And does he want to explicitly disapprove of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u228	Yes, but this is, of course, the difficult problem that we have a lot of suspicions, very serious suspicions, and in many cases concrete indications. But as long as we don't have access to that area, we won't be able to determine it with our own eyes. And that is, of course, the big problem, given that the High Commissioner for Human Rights cannot even go there at the moment. But the concerns are great. The indications of serious human rights violations are strong. So if a company knew that it works with a company in that region, which in no way can be seen as a decent enterprise or where even things happen as Mr Omtzigt sketches them here, then of course that is insufferable. We don't have to talk about that for long. I also made my comment about companies operating in a context of risks in the field of international corporate social responsibility, not only for the Uighurs, but also wider. But that is of course the case in the alternative, and perhaps primarily in this debate on the issue of Xinjiang.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u229	There are two possible things here. There's a lot of evidence now. I asked my first parliamentary questions about this a year or four ago. There's a lot of evidence and clues now. Does the Prime Minister agree with the following? You either have a factory you can't do business with because you know what's happening. Or you have a factory you don't have access to, so you don't know what's happening and you don't have to do business with it. Or does the Prime Minister see a third possibility? You don't know what's going on at that factory in Xinyiang, but you can still do business with it and do corporate social responsibility. If the third possibility is going on, then it remains possible to continue with the business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u230	I share Mr Omtzigt's classification. That is also something we are allowed to say here in a normal sense, I think. If there's any doubt or if it's even certain it's not right, you don't do business with a company like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u231	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u232	Again I had prepared wonderful answers, but due to the interruptions I have already answered the questions about China to a large extent. The state of the investment agreement remains. The negotiations are under way. I just said something about it. In recent months China has taken some steps towards the European level of ambition. In the European debate, we warn against ending at a point where we met halfway. The biggest risk now is that China says: we take a few steps and you take a few steps. Then you will not come to the result that Europe has in mind. They're gonna have to take our side more than we do theirs. You can't shake hands halfway through. For the European Union, this would mean that the unprovocative asymmetry with China remains largely intact. You better not have a deal than a bad deal. The goal is that this will be completed by the end of the year. Hopefully, that'll work. The VVD has asked what equivalence in the relationship with China means. That is the final point. The first thing we need to do is to strengthen the internal market. We need to get our own house in order. In doing so, we are once again strengthening our relationship with China. It will, of course, become more equal. It's always better to leave a position of strength. This also has to do with a question we were just talking about: how do you prevent unfair competition? The White Paper on market distortion by foreign subsidies is helping to achieve this. The international procurement instrument and the investment screening instrument are also potentially contributing to this. We actually use the whole toolkit. I have just spoken about the negotiations on the investment agreement which the Commission hopes to conclude this year. There are really big obstacles. I'll just mention them here anyway. In principle, state-owned companies should not be a problem, but may be a problem. At present, they are still a major concern. I also mention sustainability and subsidies. Once again, to meet halfway is not enough and unwise in our view. I will come to the second major chapter, unless there are any questions about China.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u233	I believe that the Prime Minister has moved seamlessly from the internal market to China and now on to the next block. I had another question about the internal market, which concerns the sharing of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u234	I'll get to that later. I'll come back on digital separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u235	Fine. Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u236	When it comes to the summit, I have also asked a question. I don't know if the Prime Minister will come back to it later. I had neatly written down the block of top including China. Can you make the draft agreement public?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u237	I'll get to that later. I have somewhere in my set how we deal with it. This is a constant question in every debate: how do we deal with the disclosure of these documents? I always do that later in the set. A second major issue at this summit is undoubtedly the issue of Belarus. There is also a connection with Turkey. Let me deal with Belarus first. I do not need to repeat what many have said. I can share the serious qualifications of the situation. We are very concerned about the current situation in Minsk and in Belarus in general. Politically speaking, as many have reminded us, one Member State is blocking consensus on sanctions. We are working very hard at the moment to break this blockade. The High Representative Borrell is doing a good job there, as is the German Presidency. That's what we do bilaterally. Stef Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has spoken with a number of colleagues directly involved with the aim of achieving a breakthrough. Yesterday I myself telephoned Gitanas Nausėda, the President of Lithuania, who, of course, is now in a very advanced position. I congratulated him on that by offering a refuge for people from Belarus, from the opposition. I am as planned next Wednesday in Greece, if all this goes on because of the precise planning of the European Council on Thursday and Friday. Then we will certainly talk about it, because Greece has a special position vis-à-vis Cyprus. In response to the question whether I myself am going to call Nikos Anastasiadis, the President of Cyprus, that must be done on the basis of all these talks. If that is necessary: immediately if that helps, but it must fit in with the collective effort to finally reach a breakthrough next Thursday and Friday. There was also a general statement at the time: if you see this, you can see that a Member State can block sanctions. Is that wise? Well, as you know, the Netherlands is open to QMV, with regard to implementation of sanctions and also in general with regard to human rights declarations. We continuously increase the effectiveness of external policies, including QMV in sub-areas. We are not in favour of QMV in the foreign policy field, but we are specifically in favour of those issues of human rights declarations and sanctions. But I am also saying honestly: we can do that, but at the moment it is not realistic to expect that unanimity will be lost. But the Netherlands would be for that. Then the question was asked whether you could not do it with 26 Member States. I think the most powerful signal is if we succeed as the European Union. I wouldn't want to go down that road, because it will only strengthen the lack of action if you do it with 26 Member States. If it is to be intergovernmental, it will not be possible to apply the Community instruments. That is why we remain committed to achieving these European sanctions as soon as possible. Moreover, the question will be how many Member States will join such a coalition of the will if it is not unanimous. And then, of course, it is also a fact that, if not all EU countries participate, I really do not know if all 26 of them would participate in those sanctions that are easy to circumvent. The Netherlands itself once again has a legal problem, because we are currently lacking the legal framework to take sanction decisions without a legal basis in the law of the European Union or of the United Nations. Only national terrorist sanctions are excluded. Even for the Netherlands, the question would already be: can you just take an intergovernmental decision of 26 countries? What you can do, of course, is to further strengthen the role of the OSCE. This was also brought about by Stef Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his talks with his colleague from Sweden, the incoming Chairman of the OSCE, and also the Dutch diplomats in Vienna, in the delegation to the OSCE, are working hard behind the scenes to make progress on this issue too. Finally, what is happening now from the diplomatic angle? The sanctions are of course important on the European track. In addition, there is Moscow Mechanism of the OSCE. The European Union supports human rights defenders in Belarus through the neighbourhood programme. What we want is for this support to be increased further in the near future. We do a lot bilaterally through the Matra Human Rights Programme in Belarus. These include the issues of freedom of the press, the position of the Igbti community, freedom of expression, the position of human rights defenders. The strengthening of civil society through the Matra Fund is also part of this bilateral commitment and, in our opinion, also contributes to greater pluralism in the Belarusian political and social context. That is in response to the various questions that have been asked about Belarus. I'll be on Turkey in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u238	I would like to suggest that we do Turkey first, because that is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u239	I can do that right after.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u240	Otherwise, you've lost all your questions about small pieces. Yeah, you'll have an opportunity soon. Interrupts are being negotiated right away. Perhaps you could add Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u241	I have had a few questions about Turkey. They're very few, so I can get them right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u242	Yes. Then I have Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u243	The question has been asked whether the international court could play a role in this. It is in itself an interesting idea to worry about territorial issues... In fact, it is also obvious that it should be dealt with there, but the problem is that this can only be done if both parties decide to do so. Then you must nudge them to that, Mr Sjoerdsma would say. The problem is that Turkey is not a party to UNCLOS, the United Nations Law of the Sea. I never know what that C stands for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u244	Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u245	Convention. Sorry, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. In doing so, they do not recognise the arbitration of the international court on this issue. President Erdogan has recently referred to international law when he talked about a solution, so there is something of an opening. This suggestion is certainly not hopeless. But again, because of that UNCLOS problem it is not immediately to activate. Mr Bosman asked what could happen next. In itself, the withdrawal of the Turks from their seismographic ship last Sunday has been an important step towards de-escalation. It is also encouraging that both the Turks and the Greeks said yesterday that they are prepared to hold exploratory talks again. Merkel, Germany, and others, among others, have intervened in this. In doing so, the mediation efforts, including those of the High Representative, Borrell, are beginning to bear fruit. As the Netherlands, we do not exclude any additional measures if the situation escalates again. In this scenario, sanctions are also explicitly on the table. But once again, all Member States must agree to this. Finally, Mrs van der Graaf's question on these further sanctions. The ultimate goal, including the dialogue that is now under way between the Greeks and the Turks, is to find a lasting solution to the tensions in the eastern Mediterranean. We also believe that dialogue is really the only way to achieve this. Once again, I have already said that sanctions are not off the table as far as we are concerned. If they are needed, we will introduce that instrument. Once again, however, it has to be done again by unanimity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u246	Then I have Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u247	I wondered whether the Prime Minister agrees with me that it is inconceivable that next week, after the European summit, no measures or sanctions should be imposed against Belarus. That is inconceivable in the current situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u248	Yeah, I agree. But it is not yet settled, because if the Cypriots continue to block Nicosia, there will be no sanctions. We need to be real about that, too. We're gonna do everything we can to pull that knot out, but if that knot stays in next week, they're not gonna be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u249	I understand that the Prime Minister says, "I don't want to speculate about situations like that." But now he's actually saying, if Cyprus doesn't want to, it won't. Then he goes a long way, because that means that it could be at the top and in the run-up to the summit that the situation today, the embarrassing situation now... "Not a beautiful day for Europe," through our Foreign Minister, was the understatement of the week. This situation may continue after next week because of Cyprus. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following. He doesn't have to speculate on me here, but I can ask him to think about an alternative. An alternative with 26 or with 20, let's say that there are 6 others pulling off..... would be really preferable to come out again and say: sorry, it didn't work out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u250	Apart from the question of whether the Netherlands can participate, because of our own legislation that I have just outlined. At that time, these sanctions lack their legal basis in an agreement within the UN or in the European Union. And unlike terrorism sanctions, that would not be possible. So that is another legal issue for the Netherlands. But I don't think you're keeping all 26 of them together. My expectation if this doesn't work... I'm gonna start by sketching the sausage case. It's: it's not working. And it doesn't work to keep the 26 together, either, but the Netherlands can't participate because of legal complications. I think in the end there's a risk that if it doesn't work out by 27, you won't suddenly have 26. As there are fewer than 26, there is also leakage in these sanctions, because then there are all kinds of means to circumvent it. Moreover, 26 have not guaranteed the cooperation of the Community instruments, such as the European Commission and others. It should also be explicitly approved by the Cypriots that they can be used. So I really think of that as a very complex route. I can only say that international pressure is now being felt to impose sanctions, and there is a sense of failure, of failure, if it does not succeed. I agreed with all those who said that. That's exactly how I feel. But I can only put maximum pressure and try to build coalitions with Lithuania, the Greeks and all the others, to see who can ultimately put maximum pressure on the Cypriots, who, by the way, have no nonsense in themselves, huh? I understand their concerns about Turkey. That's what I'd like to say here. I get that. I agree with Mr Omtzigt and others who have said this here. I understand those concerns, but it's not about combining two unrelated files right now. It reminded me a bit of Arts and Auto: you're going to combine two nouns that have nothing to do with each other in a magazine title. Now it is Turkey and Belarus. That's an idiotic combination; that's not about anything. But politically, that blockade is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u251	That example indeed... Yes, Mr Van Ojik, but there are still a lot of subjects that I feel you would like to comment on. Or are you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u252	Maybe you could get me some prior knowledge? Maybe I missed something? I'm starting to doubt myself now. I'd really like to know... I understand it all. I also understand that we are working very hard over the next week to get that done; I immediately believe that. But the Prime Minister, as a participant in that summit, will have to think in advance about what the alternative to coming out empty-handed is? If it is all very complicated with sanctions then perhaps we should go that complicated way. If there is leakage of sanctions, then perhaps leakage is better than having no roof at all. I mean, no sanctions can always be worse. And if the way of sanctions is not possible, there may be other means of exerting pressure. We did not recognise the results of the elections, I say to the Prime Minister. There is someone there who has not been recognised at all as the legal representative of the Belarusian government since today. So what's the alternative to coming out later, maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u253	Very fair: moderate. That's mediocre. I'm not selling tubers for lemons here. I also believe that the main route should be that we get 27 out of it. That's what I'm putting my energy on right now. That is why I am calling Lithuania, using my visit to Greece and, wherever I see opportunities, I will also help from my position, by the way, to support those who are very good at their role at the moment: Charles Michel as President of the Council, Angela Markel as chancellor of the country that has the rotating Presidency, and the High Representative, who are all working on this. 'Cause, of course, everyone thinks it's a screw-up if it doesn't work out. However, once again with regard to the sanctions of 26: I am assured by lawyers that there is a risk that the Netherlands will not be allowed to participate. We are, of course, completely embarrassed when we argue in favour of it and say: boys, we are just not participating because the law in the Netherlands does not allow us to do so. That may still be to be resolved, but it does not seem easy to get the Dutch law into it. Then you can look at alternatives. I get that. Of course you'll finally say, what can we do? But I really don't want to speculate about that at all. I think it's such a failure if 27 doesn't work out that I don't really want to speculate on that right now. Moreover, I will remove the pressure from Cyprus to accept the 27. Because then they say: yes, but this Rutte has long stated in the Dutch parliament, at the request of Van Ojik, that there is an alternative. These debates are being followed, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u254	We are, of course, doing this to support the people of Belarus who are so brave to go out on the streets, at risk of their own lives. We see that footage day in, day out, especially when there are demonstrations. I understand the ifs and buts, and I totally share the Prime Minister's feeling that it's really a failure if we don't get out. But I also ask him to continue to say that we, as the Netherlands, support that population...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u255	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u256	...who has a legitimate demand: legitimate elections that just make sense. We did not accept the results of the elections. Yet someone was installed today. A number of European leaders have already said that we do not accept this appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u257	Neither do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u258	I ask the Prime Minister to join us...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u259	Yeah, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u260	... and actively promote this, because that is also support for that population. All we can do is express support. This can be done with public statements when the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister can do so. I think you'll find pretty much everyone in the Chamber by your side for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u261	We don't recognize this president. I would also like to say this in the official direction, because we have not discussed this with each other. But I'll take that. And if they get angry now, that's too bad. We don't recognize this president.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u262	That's very good. There are lists of countries supporting the Belarusian people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u263	This now includes the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u264	Yeah, exactly. Then we're part of that list, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u265	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u266	It's a small side street. The association Arts and Auto is simply a mutual guarantee company of doctors who have cars. It was founded in 1924.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u267	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u268	The fact that doctors had cars like one of the first ones isn't so weird in itself. A historian must be able to understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u269	Don't advertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u270	I didn't expect you to know that again!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u271	Those things fit together a little bit. Mr. Cerfontaine is chairman now. So it just descended and stays now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u272	I think he's a decent D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u273	Yes. I also find that "accurate" a necessary adjective for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u274	You must not provoke Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u275	Well, so far he's satisfied!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u276	The problem is Baudet's already gone. He ran away when Rutte started talking. Well, that's pretty entertaining in itself. Mr. Chairman. A very clear statement here: we do not recognise the Belarusian regime, and so we do not recognise that the person... I am very pleased with that, because the Prime Minister just said that we are all doing it with Matra, and we cannot do sanctions. Yes, it's nice that we still support a little human rights, but there's been an election and the wrong person has been put in place there again for the sixth time, by the way, in a secret ceremony. You must be terrified if you don't want to show yourself in public. I would also like to know what Mr Baudet really thinks about that. Anyway, unfortunately, we don't get that opportunity. If you don't acknowledge that, would you like to call on the Belarusian ambassador to inform him personally? You now have an ambassador from a regime that you do not recognise. I think you personally or the Minister of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u277	I'm not gonna do that myself. I've never done that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u278	I get that. Or the State Department sg will. I know how that works. There is also a special decline of the Ministry, so the ambassador does not have to come into sight. But I do think it can be officially communicated to him. That's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u279	Now that I have decided here ex-Cathedra that we do not recognise the secretly installed President of Belarus, I have announced this without any consultation with the cabinet; sometimes we will have to ensure that normal diplomatic follow-up takes place. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u281	I suggest you move on. Oh, Mrs. Maeijer. Take the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u282	A short question about Turkey. I see in the annotated agenda, and I also heard the Prime Minister say: we are seeking dialogue and, if necessary, we are not excluding additional measures. Is it also on the table at the summit as an additional measure to finally formally end Turkey's accession to the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u283	No, that's not on the table. Europe is very divided on this. We've said it before: it's deep in the freezer. I do not see Turkey joining the European Union happening either. There are so many countries and so many issues. Nor does the current state of law in Turkey exactly move towards Europe. So that's not on the table, no. It should have some chance for that, but it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u284	That is, of course, remarkable in itself, because there is deep division within the European Union on a number of issues, and they are on the table. Then I wonder: how much more is it gonna take to get this on the table? Is the Prime Minister at least prepared to bring it up himself? How much more do we need now to bet on finally formally ending candidate membership?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u285	Like I said, you should also look at what you end up spending your political capital on. And here there is no support to stop the negotiations, but there is no support to allow Turkey to join. So that's just stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u286	Just for a little while, though. At the beginning of 2019, this Prime Minister made a flaming speech in Zurich for a strong foreign policy and security policy of the European Union. He said: we must get rid of these vetos when it comes to human rights sanctions and declarations; it must stop and we must show that we are a player. I totally agree with him on that. I agreed with him and I agree with him. They were fine words, but the question is what the Prime Minister himself has done to ensure that these vetoes disappear. Look at Belarus. I understand it's hard, as the Prime Minister says, but what did he do? What did he try? How did he get together with Germany and France? What's happened in the last year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u287	This speech, of course, concerned a very large number of issues, for example the use of our trade instruments as an EU and our development cooperation instruments to bring international force. I did not say that it was because of me, and I am not going to claim it all here, that in the speech of the President of the European Commission and in the statements of the European Commission on foreign policy, it was very clear that it is important to understand how important it is that, as I translate it, you go from the power of principles to the princicles of power, and prevent Europe from being a playing field instead of a player. This includes ensuring that you use the tools you have to support your power-political ambitions, which of course are all anchored in our values. And that is where international trade instruments and our development relations belong. I'm not saying it's because of my speech, but I'm glad I did. After that speech, I also spoke with the French President, but also with many others, about this interest. Very specific about QMV is my conclusion that letting go of sanctions now is the loss of European political capital. Because there is really no support for that. It doesn't make much sense for me to make a nice speech and then go after something like that. I would rather run after Europe now, and I am glad to see that, for the first time, it really talks about its foreign political position with much more confidence. For example, in the threat of decoupling between America and China, we are not on the corner of the playing field, but we can talk about that. Again, I do not claim that; there are things coming together in such a union, such an association, also social and political.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u288	That is not really an answer to my question, but let me focus on the specific example we have here: Belarus. The Prime Minister says: "I am going to talk to Greece about this, of course, and to my colleagues. With Cyprus? Yes, perhaps if necessary." Look, I think it is very good to invite the Ambassador of Belarus here again, or that the Prime Minister ex cathedra repeats Minister Blok's policy two weeks ago. That is good, but I would actually prefer to see him, if he thinks that majority is an important point and if he thinks Belarus is an important point, he will let the Cypriot ambassador know here, or his Cypriot counterpart. But do it directly and not indirectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u289	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u290	That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u291	Yeah, but Sjoerdsma's diplomat enough to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u292	Yeah, exactly, I'm a diplomat enough. That is also why I make this suggestion to the Prime Minister to pick up the phone directly once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u293	Yeah, I do, don't I? I didn't talk to the President of Lithuania for nothing. I am in Greece on Wednesday, and otherwise there is no doubt that there is still contact. If I have to, I'll call the President of Cyprus, too, but it's not like I'm picking up the phone because there's a problem. Well, that should fit... Well, I'm not even going to explain that, because I think Mr Sjoerdsma knows that very well. This must be part of a diplomatic offensive in which this contact complements the process of the main players in this field, namely Borrell and Merkel. It must be supportive in their process, otherwise I even run the risk of cycling through it. There's no point in that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u294	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u295	Sure. There were a few questions about digital, also a subject at this European Council. How can we be sure that the digital compass does not come into the hands of lobbyists from tech companies? The European Commission has announced that a digital compass will be released in March 2021. This is actually a document in which the Commission puts forward concrete strategic targets for digitisation. I think that the cabinet believes it is important for the European Union to take leadership in the field of digitalisation in order to prevent us from lagging behind the rest of the world. A digital compass like that can do a great job. The Commission uses different rankings and indicators for digital, such as the annual Digital Economy and Society Index, the DESI. A digital compass thus also seems to have a more strategic meaning. How it develops is still unknown at the moment. That's all still to be done. The extent to which tech companies and other stakeholders are involved is also unclear. That is really up to the Commission and the Member States themselves. But, of course, this is a sovereign political decision-making that cannot ultimately be left to lobbyists alone. Then there was Mr Bosman's question on European cooperation in the field of 5G. It is high on the European agenda. The Netherlands is in contact with many European Member States to exchange information on the planned national measures under 5G. This is also essential because of the initiatives to develop a European approach to the cyber security of 5G networks, such as the EU toolbox 5G, along with, of course, the measures to mitigate problems. The European Commission is also working with European industry on a new public-private partnership for development or even further development from 5G to 6G. The Commission intends to invest in this in the coming years from the European funds for research and innovation. We very much welcome that. We will continue to work for close cooperation with other European countries and also with similar countries in the near future. Then the European ID card. We understand that there will be a proposal from the Commission in the middle of 2021. Then we'll talk about that in more detail. We support an issue of interoperability. There's not supposed to be anything new. It is about improving interoperability between Member States. That is why we have no objection to the call in the draft conclusions that we have not, of course, seen. But, as we understand it, I shall ask you a little bit more. It is the intention here that there should be interoperability between the different systems. There's not supposed to be a whole new card all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u296	Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u297	Yeah, those were the questions about digital. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u298	It is unfortunate that I have to ask this question, but can it be answered in writing? In the current directive, I believe, but I do not know whether it is a directive or a regulation, or interoperability has long been established. So you have to be able to do business with similar things, like DigiD in the Netherlands. That's already being taken care of at the moment. There is therefore no need for a new directive. I referred to this because it seems that something else is meant here, because what the Prime Minister is saying here is already in place. That I am somewhat surprised, I can imagine. That's why I asked him to find out what's behind this for next week. 'Cause this has to be something new. Does that include companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u299	We're going one more spa deeper. I'm not going to send letters because the officials are gone. But I'm taking this next week; me or Stef Blok, if he has to. It's supposed to be Wednesday morning, so I can do it myself, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u300	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u301	Otherwise, Block will do it or Kaag will do it. But I'll make sure the answer to this point is in the set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u302	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u303	Then I come to a number of things that are not discussed at this summit. I'll start with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u304	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u305	Still, let's talk about digital. I had asked a question about Schrems II and about sharing dates with the United States and the ruling...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u306	That's in my pile of leftovers. That's not so much a part of this summit, but I'm going to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u307	Not yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u308	Rest points. That sounds very disrespectful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u309	Yes. Three more topics. One. The European Semester; just a response to Mr Omtzigt's question. In the RRF, that European recovery package, countries need to reform in order to get money to invest. In order to be able to reform, countries need to implement on the basis of Commission rules and proposals, the CSRs 2019 and 2020, the country-specific recommendations, the country-specific recommendations. We can now see this coming back to us in the first documents which the Commission has put out on the subject. Then the money that goes to such a country must also be invested. Then it is nice, we have said, if this happens in areas that actually generate growth, such as energy and digital. Sometimes it can also overlap. In the Netherlands you see a overlap because we have included in the CSR that we need to invest more in climate. Mr Van Ojik will like that. Then there's a connection. The whole idea behind the fund is that the combination of reform, based on the CSRs, and investment of money released from it in places where it makes sense, should lead to growth. I have to say that the Commission is now working very decently to translate the agreements into the first things we have seen. We follow that very closely, of course. In the same context, of course, the question of the rule of law has been asked. I can say that you know that we are very keen to do so. At the European Council in July, we discussed the fact that the text has become bald, but that the core is still there, namely that there should be a rule of law mechanism on the basis of which the Commission can conclude that there are problems and that the imposition of sanctions should be adopted by qualified majority. So that core point has remained intact. A lot of words around that are gone. There is a recital text. That is Article 2 of the Treaty, also cited in a fine contribution by Mr Bosman, which also refers to the rule of law. The European Parliament is now on the move and has said: boys, more needs to be done here. That process is going on, as you know, and you will understand that at least the Netherlands would have no objection in any way if those texts were further tightened. That conversation's going on. This also led to a question by Mr Omtzigt on the state of play in these negotiations on the MFF in the trialogue, in the European Parliament. Discussions are under way between the German Presidency and the European Parliament. Yesterday, in the General Affairs Council, Germany referred back to the fact that there has been some progress, but that they have not yet arrived. The report will be sent to the Chamber in the near future, at least this week. Certainly the issues of rule of law, own resources and climate are all still at hand. For the Presidency, the conclusions of the July European Council are the guiding principles. Again, more information on this will be included in the General Affairs Council's report which will be sent to the Chamber this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u310	I'd like to ask you to have a look at the stakes in the trilogue...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u311	You asked me to do so, but I am going to give it to you as a civil servant, because I do not think there is any such commitment at all yet. We just talked about it in the suspension, but I just want to make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u312	Then I would like to hear it, because we do have a letter on the stakes and then it is mainly about whether we need to move another billion in the budget. A billion sounds like a lot, but that's not so bad on this budget. But of course we are also concerned with the issues of the rule of law mechanisms and so on. They are very important to understand what the Council's commitment is and we would like to understand them. It's about the non-financial commitment, I'm just saying. I'd love to hear about that. We really have a completely different interpretation of this communication. This communication says that those European countries must come up with flagship projects and then they can spend 300 billion. They will then have to meet a number of requirements. They need to speed up, renovate, recharge and refuel clean technologies, connect citizens, and then you can build broadband, modernise broadband, and there's a lot to be done in Europe. An average European country spends some tens of billions on the education budget, so that is not so difficult. Is this still maintaining strict demands of reform or do we end up here, I ask the Prime Minister, with: in fact, can you do almost anything with the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u313	No. What matters is two things. If you want to grow an economy, you have to reform and invest. To get the money for the investments, you need to reform. This reform is determined on the basis of CSRs 2019 and 2020. That's addressed here. Those countries have to comply with that. Not everything, but choices are made from those CSRs, the broad-ranging country-specific recommendations. The first impression we get from the committees is that they are very tight. So they have to reform. If you reform, you can get access to the money. And then the question is, what do you spend the money on? A pension reform or labour market reform does not have to cost money in itself. It must take place in order to strengthen the economy. Then that gives you access to the pot. Sometimes it overlaps, I just mentioned CSRs for the Netherlands in the field of climate change, but in most cases not. Then there's this: how are you going to spend that money? Then I think it makes sense for you to look at those investments that are pulling off exceptional growth. Then you talk very often about areas like the digital economy or the energy transition. These are major issues in countries such as the Netherlands and other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u314	I'm curious. I think there's something we can do here. By 15 October 2020, countries will have to make a kind of statement. Is the government prepared to summarise the statements made by the countries, including the Netherlands, around 15 October and see if they meet the requirements of these country-specific recommendations in the eyes of the Dutch Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u315	I will come back to that, because I have no idea if we are going to see those pieces. I just don't know enough about that. I'll have that checked and I'll get back to you next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u316	Fine, then I'll hear next week...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u317	I understand the question, but I'm gonna have to let the government figure out if we have any access to those statements at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u318	In any case, we can see the Dutch, but I assume that the other 26 countries are also making predictions. If we are going to come back to it, then we can do so in writing for next Tuesday. Then there is the promise of two debates back to give an overview of what the Minister of Social Affairs would do, I believe, of the effective retirement ages in the 27 EU countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u319	I don't know about that last one. That promise will be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u320	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u321	Did I do that? When it's done, it's all logged without a doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u322	Digital.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u323	Yeah, digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u324	Let me get this straight. I'm not gonna sign any letters right now. I hope to stand here myself and I simply do not know the answer to Mr Omtzig's question. I don't have any information about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u325	I would nevertheless like to have that letter, because that could give us cause for a motion on it. We think it is very important to know, during the ratification process, which we should probably do somewhere in December, whether there are reasonable plans or whether they all water down. The best way to test that is to see what will be handed in in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u326	Then I have to be sure that we have access to it, and I just don't know that right now. I've got to figure it out technically first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u327	No, that's gonna be a repeat, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u328	Mr Omtzigt now wants me to promise here that I know what it says. I don't know the trial. I'm gonna find out what the trial is. Is it true that the Netherlands even knows what other countries are doing? Then what is that they have to submit on October 15th? I'm not familiar with that. That's what I need to find out. I just don't know. I find it complicated to give letters about something if I do not know at all whether we have a role in that process. Let's go check it out. Mr Omtzigt's question is quite clear. We'll dive in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u329	Then this point was also discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u330	Mr. Chairman. I hope to have something to say about Mr Omtzig's question as to whether we have the commitment to the trialogue in the European Parliament. I thought I understood that there was no commitment to that and that is why we cannot share it. I've got a few things left. Brexit first. Questions have been asked about this too. I can talk about that very extensively. I can keep it short, too. Negotiations will continue in the next round on 28 September 2020. That's happening between the negotiating teams. We are expecting some kind of update in the European Council next week. I think we can still get out of it, but of course it's not gonna get any easier. This week, in the General Affairs Council's written consultation, your Chamber has been given the status of where we are at the moment, including some kind of appreciation. The agreements already made in the withdrawal agreement are legally binding on both parties. So I really assume that the United Kingdom is just sticking to that. This is also important for the clarity of people, businesses and the United Kingdom itself. Of course, we have all been able to take note of the Internal Market Bill that is now going through parliament in England. I agree with everyone who says that the direction that piece is going is absolutely worrying. Full implementation of the agreements contained in the withdrawal agreement is the best basis for reaching good agreements about the future. It is of the utmost importance for the Netherlands and the European Union that we can rely on our partners and agreements made. This is a bill. It hasn't been treated yet. I do not want to anticipate now that a final agreement will be reached in the UK and that law will be passed, but that would, of course, be a break with last year's agreement. In that case, we should use the articles on how to deal with a conflict. Then the question is whether England is still a reliable partner. In itself, what England does is allowed until such a law is passed. If that law in its final version is actually in breach of the withdrawal agreement, of course, we have a problem. I don't really want to speculate about that right now. Mrs Van der Graaf said that there would be a compromise on the fisheries negotiations. That is not known to me or to us. For us, commitment is a fisheries agreement as part of the economic relationship, based on historical fishing and fishing rights. The United Kingdom wants a separate fisheries agreement and annual negotiations. We know that this is a difficult subject in the negotiations. It will remain so for the time being. Mr Omtzigt said: they are threatening to leave the ECHR. I agree with Omtzig that membership of the United Kingdom's ECHR is very important. The European Union's commitment is that the future partnership between Europe and the United Kingdom reaffirms membership of the United Kingdom. We have no indications that the United Kingdom would like to leave the ECHR, but of course we are following that closely. Then I come to a number of remaining questions that I couldn't put under a cup. So this is the other cup. The first question was whether better European cooperation could be achieved in the area of arms exports. I believe that there are good European agreements, whereby all military exports are assessed against eight criteria. Those agreements are interpreted differently by Member States. We are in the process of achieving a level playing field in good cooperation with others. We do want the joint bar to go up. This means that other countries must interpret the European agreements in the same restrictive way as the Netherlands. This is important for the level playing field. This is such an example of how this can be done within the European Union. This was a question from Mr Bosman. Mr Omtzig asked about Syria's liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u331	In the meantime, the Netherlands will be sharper than colleagues in the European Union. In doing so, we are failing ourselves in the development of the arms industry in the Netherlands. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u332	We believe that we adhere to a strict interpretation of the rules. If others do not do so, it is, of course, already a problem in itself. That is why we are working to ensure that we interpret all of this in the same way, namely as we think the agreements are. I don't think it will work if the Netherlands weakens its interpretation. So first we try to achieve a level playing field. If that doesn't work, we're gonna have to re-evaluate what we're doing. You don't have to be a crazy hen either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u333	I'm very happy about that. But I see developments between Germany and France, which are in the process of synchronising and harmonising. Will the Netherlands join in? Or is that something we wait and see if they are as sharp as the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u334	We are in the process of achieving better cooperation and ultimately achieving that level playing field. It is therefore important that the European agreements are interpreted equally. Of course, we are following very closely the type of initiatives as in France and Germany and its other initiatives. We will look into whether they will help to achieve a restrictive explanation of the same level. It has to be done. I can't see where those French-German conversations are going right now. We are keeping a close eye on this, because, of course, we attach great importance to a strong defence sector in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u335	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u336	As a result, there was also a question from Mr Bosman about cooperation within the European Union in the field of defence. Partly overlaps that question with the previous one, but separately we can say the following. In recent years, steps have been taken to strengthen this cooperation. The Multiannual Financial Framework provides for 590 million. The Cabinet considers the new European Defence Fund, which will enter into force in principle on 1 January, to be of great value to stimulate European defence cooperation in research and development and to promote competitiveness and innovation. We focus on industrial participation policies, in which Dutch companies are given opportunities in the supply chains of large defence companies. We have also allocated EUR 20 million in our budget for cofinancing from the European Defence Fund. Then I come to the issue of Syria's liability. Mr Omtzigt asked for it. This was brought about by Stef Blok at the Foreign Affairs Council. It invited all Member States to support the initiative. The first reactions are encouraging. Support has now been received from several Member States. Today, in the context of the United Nations General Assembly, Blok hosts an event with the aim of gathering as much support as possible. Unfortunately, in my speech at the AVVN, as you know, I am also talking about the decision of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is taking an important step and we hope for support from many other countries. The Council agenda shall be drawn up by the President and not by the members. So I can't just add it. Of course, I will use every opportunity, including informally, to draw attention to this Dutch initiative. Mr Omtzig asked about taxation, referring to Article 116 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I think the question concerns the BNC sheet on the Commission communication on an action plan for fair and simple taxation. That action plan does not propose a change of vote on tax matters with QMV rather than unanimity. The government's position on this matter has therefore not changed. We have not been able to find that QMV was hidden in it. But of course we are going to pay extra attention to it now, because we do not want that! Mrs Leijten had a question about health care as a national competence. Yes, that remains a responsibility of the countries themselves. I have a much longer answer, but I'll use it to answer her follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u337	The President of the European Commission said in her speech that it is clearer than ever that we should discuss these competences as a third step. She felt that this was a task for the conference on the future of Europe. Furthermore, she would like to set it up at the global health summit in Italy. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to tell us now that this is a pointless and unhelpful road in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u338	If the aim was to change the treaty's allocation of powers, we would not be in favour of it. If the aim of these talks is to achieve a, look at the corona crisis, stronger European coordination and cooperation in the field of health care, I would be in favour of that. I am thinking, for example, of how to deal with the free movement of persons and goods during a pandemic and how to ensure that there is more equality in the colors we use to indicate where you may or may not travel. But that is coordination and coordination and not a new division of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u339	We know that, of course, there will be no new treaty at all, because then there will be too many European Member States that are going to submit it to their people. And of course, everyone's terrified of that. But we also know that, in many areas, there is actually a considerable cross-border impact on the current treaty. We are not doing this in a treaty amendment but in a different way, and that is why I simply want the Prime Minister's promise that absolutely no step will be taken on this. It lists and, indeed, it deals first with coordination and cooperation during this pandemic. All at your service, so do we. But here she's really talking about the competences and we know what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u340	But we are not in favour of redesigning the powers. So that signal has been given here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u341	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u342	Then there is the question of the European Magnitsky list. What is the state of European law and when can we expect it? Does the Netherlands do enough? This may be the highest priority for the Netherlands. I know from Stef Blok that he's on top of it himself. There is agreement within the Council on the contours of the European human rights sanctions regime and we are now awaiting the proposals of the High Representative and the Commission for the legal texts. The Commission must propose the legal texts in order to make it formal. Both Borrell, the High Representative, and the President of the Commission have announced in recent days that they will soon come forward with these proposals. The German Presidency is planning to complete it during the German Presidency, i.e. before the end of this year. Mr Omtzigt asked about the SER research on the Rhineland model. I think he is right: on balance, the European Union follows the Rhineland model, with scope for trade unions, social protection and investment in economic recovery, rather than the Anglo-Saxon model. The cabinet has formulated its vision of social Europe by means of a letter from Minister Wouter Koolmees of Social Affairs on the future of the social dimension of the European Union. It says, for example, that we must respect the current division of competence. The Economic and Social Council examined priorities for a fair Europe. A cabinet response followed. I believe that a new investigation on this point does not add anything. We have Koolmees' letter and we have the SER investigation with the cabinet response. I believe that there is broad support here too for the fact that we are not going to come up with a new division of competences, unless the thinking has changed, because then, of course, we have to weigh it up. But I'd be reluctant to do that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u343	It is good that the Netherlands is after the European Magnitsky Act. I've seen the concept of that. A lot of what's in it looks good. But what does not look good is that the basis for large-scale corruption is not included. I would ask the Prime Minister to follow that up. It is still unanimous decision-making. I would like to call on the Prime Minister to try to ride his own call, to vote with qualified majority, in that Magnitsky Act. And I would ask him, as soon as that law is in place, to call for an immediate look at the listings of other countries, such as the United States, Canada, the Baltic States and the United Kingdom, to see which of these names can be included on the European list. Legislation is beautiful, of course, but it is about implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u344	I'll take all these points with me. The Magnitsky Act isn't exactly the subject I've been preparing for today. So I can't really see now whether what's being asked here can happen. But at least I am asking those who are now working hard to take very precise note of this remark. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the question about an EU anti-racism coordinator. That is a proposal from the Commission in its State of the Union. I think it makes sense. Our Union is not only an economic partnership, but also a union of values, including equality and human rights. That must be in Article 2 of the Treaty, which I and Mr Bosman have already quoted. This means that anyone within the Union can be who he or she is, without regard to the person and without discrimination based on skin colour, faith, sex or sexual orientation. The Netherlands is in favour of a common European approach to combat online hate-sowing. The Netherlands underlines the importance of cooperation in criminal prosecution and the important role of education in prevention. A voluntary approach, an approach to self-regulation, is paramount here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u345	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u346	Thank you very much for your coulance, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the concept of "hate sow." Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is an extremely elastic and vague concept and that political opponents could easily be dismissed underneath it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u347	But there is no law passed by Europe here either. It is a coordinator who is able to respond and to have views in cases of hate speech. There is therefore no question of legislation. If there are concerns among parties about those who sometimes take some firm positions in party politics, I say that of course it should be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u348	Yeah, but that's exactly what happens all the time. You're always too early to criticize the EU, because "it's not binding, it's not law, so don't worry." Then you're late and they say: but we agreed on this ten years ago. It's a sliding bowl every time. There's gonna be a co-ordinator who's gonna keep an eye on it all. Meanwhile, there is also an EUvsDisinfo office, which wants to coordinate censorship on the Internet and talk to Facebook and other major platforms. Hate speech must now be eliminated, while we have just seen in the Netherlands that an opposition politician is not saying 'the opposition leader', but rather 'an opposition leader', namely Geert Wilders was prosecuted because he has certain views on immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u349	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u350	He's been convicted, too. According to the EU, that is a hate speech. Surely it would be dangerous for us to put that down to the EU? How can you not see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u351	Now everything gets thrown together in a very complicated way. No, that's really not right. We now have in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u352	Then what's wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u353	I'll try. We do not rule on the Wilders and the judges. It takes place in the legal column, the judicial column. The judiciary is independent in the Netherlands and we are here together the legislative power. You are also the controlling power towards the government, but we are not the judicial power. The thing about the Wilders case. We also discussed this in detail at the General Reviews last week. Furthermore, no laws are being made. There is a proposal from Von der Leyen in her State of the Union to appoint such a coordinator. We shall look at this proposal in detail. We are not against it as a matter of principle. Of course, I agree with Mr Baudet that if political parties take firm positions in the public political debate, there must be room for that. I will not go into any further details about what might happen in a court of law, because that is not my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u354	Yeah, but it's always a little bit, I'm not about that. It is always a different department, or it is with the EU and is therefore not national. But it is obvious that freedom of expression is becoming increasingly under pressure. The fact that the free internet is becoming increasingly subjugated, inter alia through the combination of tech giants and the European Union, which is working in every way possible to limit the free debate? The Prime Minister may say that it is not a new law, but it is another one with an office where of course people come back to work who are going to present papers, etcetera, etcetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u355	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u356	That's another step on that sliding scale, isn't it? How can you not see that? How can you not recognize that? That will, of course, be a left-wing person who is going to do so, that is also obvious. That's what an activist will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u357	Well, Mr Baudet himself's programme is quite a left when I see what he wants with the economy. But when it comes to the issue of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u358	Huh? What's that? Left, me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u359	Yeah, really. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u360	I'm gonna make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u361	I would also like to object to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u362	Still, I'm afraid you're more alike than you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u363	I'm really not lefty!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u364	Just like the PVV. Really. Take a good look at your economic views. But at the point of the fear that is felt here. I understand very well that you have to watch out for mission creep. Of course, I agree with Baudet, you should always be careful. So if those proposals come forward, we'll take a good look at them. But I thought last week's General Political Reviews were an example of freedom of expression, the rule of law and democracy leaving room for discussion in the Netherlands to be held fairly firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u365	Yeah, but that's about the Lower House and here we have immunity and a few more things. But of course it's about the rest of society. Ollongren and her censorship agency from Brussels and from the Netherlands have printed many things out of public space. And that keeps going on and on. So that's what's going on. And one more point about our party program. We want to take very good care of a number of groups of people in the Netherlands: the elderly, good education, good care, etc. They've fallen prey to decay. But that's something that can be perfectly combined with a smaller government and with lower taxes, if you don't spend all the money on all those climate plans, as you want to do. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u366	Well, if you really want to see the government as a lucky machine, you have to be with your party. But in the campaign, whoever's in front of the VVD is probably gonna talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u367	This is not a free broadcast for political parties. I just want to stick to the subject. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u368	Something's being said right now, but I can't hear it, because the microphone isn't on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u369	Mr Rutte seems to think it's very funny; I don't think it's that funny at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u370	I wasn't talking to you. I was talking to Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u371	I think it's fantastic to have a new prime minister after 17 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u372	Let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u373	So you recognize the point of the mission creep, as you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u374	There's always that risk, with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u375	But that's what happens when you set up a coordinator, isn't it? If you set up a co-ordinator, it's gonna make itself important, like any committee you set up? He's gonna present papers, organize conferences. Isn't that what it's all like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u376	We have to keep a close eye on that, and that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u377	The foreign policy coordinator.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u378	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u379	Well, "that foreign policy coordinator"... It's not the coordinator's fault. It could only be more foreign policy from within the European Union. But that is where the problem arises, see my speech in Zurich, quoted here by Mr Sjoerdsma, that as long as France, Germany and other large countries consider the primacy of foreign policy fully, but also one hundred per cent, national, it is ultimately the lead position, apart of course from attempts to achieve European coordination, it is very difficult for Europe to make a fist on that world stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u380	But you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u381	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u382	This includes the fact that Europe can speak more with one voice, including on issues such as the issue we are discussing today, sanctions against Belarus. But that's not gonna happen. This also has to do with how we organise things, for example with regard to qualified majority voting in relation to sanctioning regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u383	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u384	But are you really saying that you really want to move towards a European foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u385	No, I say that as a Europe you want to make a fist, you have to try together with the Member States at appropriate moments to really get out of it. With the fist that we can make internationally, for example in the big issue now of decoupling China-America and the big issue of our relationship with Russia, I believe that Europe could act more in a coordinated manner at the moment. That would be very important, because Europe also offers a degree of protection for a smaller country like the Netherlands in these major geopolitical issues. That doesn't mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u386	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u387	... a common foreign policy. I'm against that. But I am in favour of us being willing to pick together at times when it's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u388	So that's a foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u389	No. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u390	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u391	Then again the question about the Council documents. We are committed to greater transparency in European decision-making. That is what we are doing with a number of similar Member States. However, it is important to stress that the European Council does not take binding decisions. So there are always legislative proposals from the Commission on matters that have been raised here today. We always discuss this with each other in the open here, also via BNC-fiches. So the ideas of the President of the European Commission, Von der Leyen, from the State of the Union are also announcements of proposals, which we are still discussing extensively in the Dutch Parliament. We are therefore striving for greater transparency. Then there was the question about the Schrems II judgment. This recent ruling by the Court of Justice on Privacy Shield has brought the necessary uncertainty for both the European and the Dutch economy. It is good that this has been brought here by Mr Bosman. For this reason, the European Commission entered into talks with the United States immediately after the ruling, with the aim of repairing the defects revealed by Luxembourg. The Foreign Affairs Council on 9 October is expected to be further informed by the European Commission. The Council will then be informed of the state of play. In addition, the joint European privacy regulators are working to inform companies about what measures they could take. The European Data Protection Board announced guidelines on this issue in October. So this is at gunpoint, but it's still unsolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u392	Then I'll see if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u393	I am, by the way, through all the ammunition on the Schrems II judgment. So if Mr. Bosman wants to know more...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u394	That's good, but is this the last point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u395	I have two more points. First the issue of Greece, the illegal pushbacks as it was called by Mrs Ploumen. We are familiar with the worrying reports from mostly foreign media, I also thought Dutch, but in any case foreign media about pushbacks from Greece towards Turkey. We do not have independent information. We have repeatedly stressed that action by Greece and Turkey at the border must be in line with the current international and European laws and regulations, and we will continue to do so. The European Commission has always made it clear that it also expects the Greek authorities to investigate any allegations of violence against migrants. The Netherlands shares this expectation from the European Commission. In addition, the responsible authorities may be notified of suspected abuses by the persons concerned. This can also be done by a lawyer or an interest organisation. But we now have no information on the basis of which we have confirmed this or with which we ourselves have reason to bring this to the fore, other than supporting the Commission in their work. Finally, there was the question of using my gravitas for climate; just a brief summary of Mrs Ploumen's question. I can say here that the Netherlands is very pleased with the European Commission's proposal on a target, the greenhouse gas reduction target. That is also in line with the coalition agreement. We were one of the first Member States in the European Union to 'play' this. In recent years, the cabinet, together with a leading group of similar countries, has actively lobbied for this objective. We are very pleased that the Commission is now delivering this proposal and the corresponding impact assessment in good time. Hopefully this will help the German Presidency to resolve this issue completely. I will certainly work with or without gravitas to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u396	I see Mrs Leijten. Did you sort of answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u397	Yeah, then all the questions, I guess, are answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u398	First Mrs Ploumen and then Mrs Leijten? That's a deal? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u399	Colleague Leijten was kind enough to let me ask a follow-up question about the pushbacks. In fact, we should not use that word, because it neutralizes how serious it is what is happening. I assume the Prime Minister agrees with me. That is also apparent from his words. He says: we have no evidence of our own. But several news media have reported various incidents. So my question to him would be: what else is it going to take for the Netherlands to address this issue in its own right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u400	I think we should keep the institutions in position. The Commission now has a role to play in this. It has always made it clear that it expects the Greeks to investigate every claim. We share that expectation. I think that's the right order. If we talk to the Greeks bilaterally without us having independent information, other than from the free media, then I think that is unwise. So we fully endorse the Commission's work and expect Greece to investigate another situation if any claim, proven or unproven debt instrument has been proven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u401	A brief follow-up question. What is the Prime Minister's view of informing the House of Representatives about the actions taken by the Commission on behalf of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u402	I will ask the rulers who are going to do this. I do not know if that is Ankie Broekers, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, or Stef Blok; I honestly think the last one to include that in the reports to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u403	The Prime Minister said earlier that he does not assume that a new system of global economic governance would become a Bilderberg II, but it is in the draft conclusions. I took this out because I thought it was remarkable; I could also have taken out the roll-out of 5G. There's just some very concrete things on the table that aren't classified. It is a document that has just been negotiated and which the Heads of Government want to get out quickly. I really don't think it's possible anymore for us to talk about it in such a frenzy. So I ask the Prime Minister, can you reveal this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u404	No, we can't, because we can't. We are committed to making this type of document public. As far as I am concerned, you may have all these draft Council conclusions, but they will not be relevant until they have been adopted. But we cannot do that because they are still covered by the limit. But we work with like-minded Member States to have more room in it. We actually have this discussion every European Council debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u405	But it's not progressing. We've tried everything. It's just stuck. If the Prime Minister does not make them public, what is against our Parliament making them public, because, for example, we want to do transparency, we want to have the open, free debate and not just show what we are doing, but also what is on the table with the Heads of Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u406	Article 339 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union precludes this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u407	Yes, if we were to comply fully with the treaty, a lot of things would not have been agreed at all. I find that incredibly complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u408	Once, but again, I can't decide this on my own and neither can you. We can convince each other, but that's preaching to the converted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u409	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u410	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u411	I really think we should discuss this again in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions. The Prime Minister said: I will come back to it, because it is not Bilderberg II, but I also think it is a little vaguely written down. Now we know that these kinds of documents go through all kinds of meetings committees. Well, there's some underlying information about that. So I ask the Prime Minister to at least share that with us. What the hell is that supposed to mean? Why is that in here? I think that's important. I do not want to be confronted again in a year's time in terms of: yes, yes, then, at a Council conclusion, sorry, it is water under the bridge; there is nothing you can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u412	Well, I'll take that. What it means, I'm gonna ask next week. I shall return to that in the European Council's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u413	I also had Mr Bosman, but Mr Omtzigt may go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u414	Article 339 of the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union, which you are referring to, deals with secret documents. That is where the European Court of Justice is quite clear about the term 'limité', but that is what the Commission thinks. That's why I pretended I don't understand. I've just been literally quoting. In the Commission's view, this should not be the case, so the Commission should now refer me to the European Court of Justice. Can I ask the Prime Minister to inform the Commission that I did this? Because when he reports this, the Commission has two options: it can take me to the Court or the documents will be public from now on. I've been working on this for five years, but it's kind of weird. These documents are worthless as long as they are not accepted and when they are accepted, we cannot change them anymore. We can't do our jobs like this. This is just an open democracy. Even in North Korea, these documents are public. I'm not telling you a joke. This can't be happening. So my request to the Prime Minister is: please inform the President of the Commission. Then I'll see what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u415	No, I'm not gonna snitch. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u416	You can report it yourself, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u417	It is nice that the Prime Minister is never going to tell on us, but then from now on I hope to have some support from colleagues quote from this on a daily basis, because then we will never be betrayed by the Prime Minister. That is also a solution to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u418	Yeah, but if I do or don't tell on something, it's not like we're in violation of an article. I think it's a little crazy. I think we're agreed that you'd want these kinds of pieces... As far as I'm concerned, that's fine. Make all those draft conclusions public, but that is not possible at the moment. In the meantime, we have achieved real results on many of these limits, which must be applied with great restraint. For example, more and more Council documents are being proactively made public, but there is still a mark on this. I can't take that away right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u419	Finally, because it will be a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u420	I think we're now criticizing each other for something we agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u421	We agree, but these documents always leak out in the paper. Then I usually have to go to the Financial Times, because the Financial Times usually has it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u422	Yeah, once. I think it's ridiculous, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u423	...just posted on the website two days before. If I quote from the Financial Times website, I may, but I cannot quote from our government's documents. This is really too weird for words. This concerns important legislative matters which have a direct effect in the Netherlands. The government agrees to European laws that are directly valid in the Netherlands, and as long as they are in concept, we cannot talk about them. This is really... We're laughing about it, but this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u424	Yes, because every time we have this debate, we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u425	Yeah, but then we're gonna have to change this, too. This does not fit in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u426	It hasn't worked yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u427	Then we just have to break the law. It does not have to be done in accordance with the Treaty, because limité does not fall under Article 339 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That is what Mrs Leijten and I have chosen, and we should simply use it here. I know the Prime Minister's not gonna rat us out, so we'll use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u428	I'll never rat anyone out here, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u429	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u430	... the lawyers who advise me say that limité documents are covered by the obligation of professional secrecy under Article 339 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So that is a difference of interpretation between the lawyers who advise me and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u431	Good. We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u432	These are public debates, so if it's quoted here, you run a risk to all of us. But that's not gonna be so bad, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u433	Then it's public. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u434	Thank you for the answer on Schrems II, but I would like to pass on the sense of urgency. This affects a lot of companies. They're really in trouble. I want that sense of urgency taken away, and maybe even sooner than we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u435	Yes. I'm awake now, too. I didn't have it sharp that this was playing, so thank you for that. I also received a message this morning from friends of party political circles. Mr. Chairman. One final point, because I promised. Mr Omtzigt had a question on the non-financial issues of the MFF, in particular the rule of law and the position of the Council. The German Presidency is now negotiating with the European Parliament on behalf of the Council. The Council's position is laid down in the conclusions. This applies to the financial issues, but certainly also to the non-financial issues. Think of the climate. These conclusions are, of course, public. Specific to the conditionality of the rule of law, the July European Council conclusions are rather concise for well-known reasons. That is why the German Presidency is preparing a proposal for a Council position on this issue. There's no text yet. Now comes Mr Omtzigt's question. As soon as that text, that Council position, arrives, we will immediately inform the House of Representatives. As regards the rule of law, the Netherlands can therefore still take a stand within the Council. As is well known, we want to have a strong impact on the conclusions of the European Council on this issue. If the German Presidency and the European Parliament agreed on the entire MFF, that would also be reflected in the Council. Then the Netherlands, like the other Member States, can assess whether this is acceptable. We will also inform the Chamber when it comes to this matter. So there is no position yet, but as soon as it arrives, we will inform the House of Representatives. This still in response to an open question following an earlier dialogue between me and Pieter Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u436	Has there been a question left, Mrs Leijten? That's the only way you can ask me a question, otherwise you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u437	I know your rules, Mr. Chairman. The question that has remained is that the European Central Bank is today calling for the permanent creation of the emergency fund. That was a discussion not so long ago. Unfortunately, my motion to get our signature out of there was rejected yesterday in the Chamber. But I would like to know how the Prime Minister feels about making the emergency fund permanent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u438	We're against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u439	Well, that's short and powerful. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber and the first term on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u440	As I said at the start of this debate, we have a short second time limit of two minutes on Wednesday, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u441	Then I'll make sure there's someone there; I hope I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-12.u442	You're gonna be fine. I thank the Prime Minister and the MPs.
