ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u1	We have now come to the debate on the final report of the De Winter Committee on the investigation of violence in youth care. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as, of course, the spokesmen. I know that the spokesmen are very pleased that this report has finally been on the agenda, because it has been on the agenda for a very long time. We have had to scale down a lot of debates, but this is one of the reports that we thought we could not just remove from the agenda. Speaking time is five minutes. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld as the first speaker on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it is good that we can still have this debate. I am also looking forward to this debate. This has to do with the subject, but it also has to do with the fact that five minutes of speaking time is simply too short to do justice to the victims. They have indeed been waiting a long time for this report to be discussed. Some of them would have liked to sit here in the public gallery. Unfortunately, that is not possible; I understand that very well and probably so are my fellow Members, but of course it feels like we are failing them again. I would also like to wish the victims strength again from here, because I can imagine that this debate and the discussion we are having here is also fierce for them. Because, Mr President, the report of the De Winter Committee gives a gruesome picture of abuse and abuse in youth care. Assault such as beating or putting children in an ice-cold bath, forced feeding, psychic violence such as bullying, solitary confinement, punitive measures. All this was ultimately done under the responsibility of the government. I got cold reading this report. I also got cold listening to the stories of the different victims. What I find so brave about them is not only that they do their story, but also that they say that they don't want to get better themselves. Of course they want some recognition, but they hope that by making their story prevent such atrocities from happening even further and that children too are now being put at the expense of this. The stories also touch me because wrongdoings in youth care still occur. Staff shortages continue to cause too large groups and children are still often placed in places that are totally unsuitable for them. Still children who are only in trouble with themselves, so they do not harm others but are in a situation of self-inflicted sexual abuse, for example, still too often in a barn dress in solitary confinement. Recently, for example, I visited a young person who had been tied to a bed for years and who was fed by compulsion. That wasn't because this was a good treatment for her, but that was out of power to traders because of staff shortages, because of cuts. I do not think that is possible and I want to know what the cabinet is going to do to reduce the groups. How does the Secretary of State ensure more knowledge among traders? I think it's crazy to say that in a physical condition you have a team of specialists around you and that when you're mentally in trouble you get locked up too often. Then there is the financial regulation. I would like to know why the cabinet chooses a symbolic amount of €5,000. If I compare that with the amount and the average amount for victims at the Samson Commission who investigated sexual abuse, there is quite a difference. The amount is also low when you consider that some victims have been unable to work for decades and sometimes need very intensive therapy and pay for it themselves. Why was the Samson Committee chosen for compensation and by the De Winter Committee only for a symbolic amount? The letter states that the arrangement was made in consultation with a large number of peers. We hear from peer groups that they do not necessarily always recognize themselves in the agreements that have been made. I'd like to get a reaction to that. On the website of the Damage Fund Violent Crimes, it is not known whether the financial compensation affects surcharges. I would like to make that clear, because it is not possible, of course, for you to set up a scheme and provide people with financial compensation, and this then means, for example, that their rent or care allowance is reduced. Then there are the criteria for eligibility for the financial regulation. I read that violence of a physical or psychological nature must have an excessive character. What does "excessive" mean and who determines that? For example, I also read that detention is subject to physical abuse, but separation is still the order of the day. How is it that Minister De Jonge promised earlier that we would go to zero separations, but that we do not read back about this in the new bill on the legal status of young people, which has now been submitted for consultation? What are these promises worth? There is also a lottery companion working on a physical monument. The ministry of JenV pays part of it. They're working on it, but we understand that not everything gets reimbursed. I would ask the Minister to explain this later. Then the next of kin. Last week, I had a violent conversation with parents who lost a child because of suicide in a closed facility. So this was done under the responsibility of the government. The inspection report that always appears after a suicide has occurred is crystal-hard. Mistakes have been made by that institution. Of course, those parents don't buy anything for that. What I want to give you is this. Those parents get up every day feeling their kid isn't alive anymore. They still have this enormous damage every day, but for these relatives there is no victim scheme. The Damage Fund Violent Crimes is not open to them either. I would like to ask the Secretary of State and the Minister whether arrangements can also be made for these relatives, because they need recognition and because it can help to deal with mourning better. Mr President, I shall conclude. There can be an apology to the victims a hundred, a thousand times. It is good that this has been done, but if things do not change structurally, violent reports such as the De Winter Committee's report of course do not make much sense. My appeal is very clear: improvement is needed to prevent future victims, but also to give recognition to the current victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The De Winter Committee has been investigating the violence in youth care since 1945. I was at the presentation of the report. Minister Dekker was there and then Minister Hugo de Jonge was there. I agree with what Mrs Westerveld said, namely that it is very unfortunate that it has been a year before we can discuss this important report here. For very good reasons, of course, but it's no different. At that meeting in the The Hague theatre, Mr De Winter spoke of a "happy history." I think that was a rough comment. A history in which many young people entrusted with the care of the government often suffered systematic abuse. Not everywhere, but in a lot of places. De Winter talked about lovelessness, especially in the early years after the war, about humiliation, abuse and abuse. At that time it was not an excess in youth care, but too often the norm. As Members of Parliament, we have spoken extensively with the victims of violence in the youth care sector. That was a very poignant meeting with people, some at an age, who told us about their youth that was deliberately destroyed. The cabinet has apologized, but more important than apologies, the SP considers that victims feel sufficiently recognised and that they are adequately compensated. Unfortunately, that does not seem to be the case. The cabinet chooses an amount of €5,000 to compensate the victims. There's a lot of unrest about that. The Minister states that an amount of €5,000 should be seen as recognition of the suffering that has been caused partly under the responsibility of the government. The SP really thinks that amount is too low. That is why today we are proposing a doubling of that amount to €10,000. We would also like to ask the Cabinet whether it is not possible to set up a scheme on top of a higher amount for those people who have suffered much more damage. We believe that this €10,000 is cleaner and more appropriate. Not everyone wants to look back on the violence that took place many years ago. People have rebuilt their lives, but the scars remain forever. The recognition of this suffering must be accompanied by a proper compensation. Too often we have heard from too many people today that the proposed €5,000 hurts rather than feels like an acknowledgement of the suffering that has been caused. Even then, as far as we are concerned, this €10,000 will not be good enough for some. Those are those people who have been so damaged in their youth that they have never recovered from it. People who, psychologically or physically, still have daily problems with what has been done to them. I would like to ask the Minister whether he does not think that there should be a specific arrangement for these people, which looks at what this damage has been and how it can be compensated. Mr. Chairman. In particular, we ask for attention to be paid to victims of monastery order De Goede Herder, a particularly sinister name when you read what has happened there. Victims like Anna Hollebeek stayed here, whose story we could read in the newspaper last week. After she was sexually abused by her father, she was punished in the boarding school The Good Shepherd. There this lady was forced into forced labour, like many others. Her teenage years spent all day sewing, washing and other household work. If you didn't work, you could go to solitary. That was the way things were going at the time. Her childhood was taken from her. The Minister wants to give them an apology and recognition of what has been done here a compensation of €5,000. But this arrangement was made without the victims and this group did not belong at all to the De Winter Committee. Can the Minister explain why this group is getting off so lightly in this way? Is it true that in similar situations, for example in Ireland, where the same monastery order has done the same, amounts have been paid out well above €30,000? I would like a reply from the Minister to the question as to why Dutch victims should be satisfied with this amount. Mr. Chairman. The day before yesterday we had a debate with these leaders on youth care and youth protection in Zeeland. There are major problems because municipalities have broken the contract with an institution. Financial interests are above children's interests here. The continuity of care, but also the jobs of workers, are at stake. That is exactly what I would like to point out today, too, to which the De Winter Committee makes a big point. Uncertainty is detrimental to the safety of youth care and the protection of young people. There are many places where continuity and therefore security are under pressure; Mrs Westerveld has also said so. There are staff shortages, budgets are too low and the imposed bureaucracy is suffocating. We fear that this will only put further pressure on the safety of young people in the field of youth care. Does the Cabinet share this concern? What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. I've got one more point and then I'm gonna finish. The study by the De Winter Committee also discussed abuses in other sectors of health care. At that time I asked whether it would not be wise to carry out such an investigation in, for example, disability care. We know that much has gone wrong in the past. I would like to hear whether the cabinet thinks it wise to carry out a similar study in disability care, so that we can also see what has happened in the past, what has gone wrong, what we need to learn from it and how we can meet people who have fallen victim to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we have not postponed this debate, despite the fact that we are in the midst of the corona crisis and the corona measures have been tightened. I would also like to thank the President for that, because I know that she personally worked for it. Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing we're talking about this after a long time. Several spokesmen have very strong feelings about this. That indicates how much suffering the victims have to bear. Several of us have also spoken to them in person. It is also good that extensive research has been carried out. Findings are intense, both about what took place in youth care, and about the process of recognition and research. We read that victims with their experiences of violence could rarely turn to someone. Often they were not believed either; that must be even more frustrating. They were told that it was up to them or that they had to stop talking about it once, because it was so long ago. These are very difficult stories to hear. That leaves difficult questions. Well, how's it going in social services now? Is there going to be enough to make violence in child care a huge exception? And how do we do the victims justice? I'll get to the recognition first. The committee made recommendations to acknowledge the pain of the victims. Implementation of the measure has started. It is good that the financial regulation has a simple procedure and the burden of proof. I still have some questions about that. Why choose a generic amount of €5,000, while the group is so diverse? Was it really so much more complicated to apply different categories in the implementation? The progress letter states that the peer groups had a say in the implementation of the scheme. Which ones are they? And how exactly? We get emails and letters showing that not everyone recognizes themselves in this. What is the connection with the financial regulation of the Samson Commission? Is it true that the concession previously obtained is deducted from the concession we have talked about today? And if that's the case, then I'm saying, this isn't what we want to do with each other, is it? Why is that? I'm gonna be in control. Part of the recognition is justice and justice. Staff have committed crimes. What do the rulers think of an investigation into these crimes? Of course, people have to report themselves, but why shouldn't we also investigate these staffable facts ourselves? And is it known whether victims feel ashamed to press charges? How can they be helped over the threshold? The committee reports that the inspections did not give free access to the archives. How could that happen? The prevention of violence in youth care calls for a cultural change, a long life, according to the rulers and also the fellows of fate. That is true, but let us also take steps where we can do it now. Many stakeholders are still not aware of enough of all the processes of change that have been implemented. At present, 33.5 million is earmarked for the transformation of real estate into small-scale institutions. That is a good development. There are numerous pilots running: trajectories such as The best fitting care for vulnerable young people, StroomOP, I'm not leaving you alone. We hope to achieve that people are received as much as possible in the home setting and as little as possible in an institution, let alone in a closed department. That is why I ask the rulers whether they also support the ambition of the Christian Union to go back in time to zero young people in closed youth care. It has been suggested that alternative reception facilities are now being explored in different parts of the country. Does the cabinet share this ambition? And how does the Secretary of State look at the proposition that we should eventually go to zero? Can this be made concrete in a future scenario of youth and family protection? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Mr Hijink has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u8	I think everyone shares that it is rather complicated to establish what is a reasonable amount that you could ask, including the cabinet, for financial compensation for the victims of violence in youth care. The cabinet says: €5,000. We think that amount is too symbolic; let me put it this way. I wonder whether Mr Voordewind shares that view. Let us also look at other similar damages schemes. This isn't compensation, it's compensation. Let us also look at other concessions. Isn't this a very shaky place? Aren't we too economical here, given the enormous suffering that has been done to people here? Shouldn't there be a higher remuneration for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u9	The Samson Commission had opted for a stabbed amount, ranging from a few thousand euros to higher. I understand that it has now been decided to go to one amount, perhaps because it is very complicated to identify all kinds of categories of violence. That might make it even more complicated to regulate it properly in the implementation. That's why one amount has been agreed. You ask if that amount is not too low. Well, what I've seen from the surveys is that recognition of the suffering she's suffered is number one, followed by excuses, and that the amount will probably always be arbitrary. You can say: €5,000, €10,000 or €7,000. In any case, I understand that the victims consider it important that there should also be a financial arrangement. But I didn't understand that the amount really matters. Of course there is a difference between €10,000 and €5,000, but then it remains arbitrary where you lay the border. If you take the average of the Samson commission, you will also get around €5,000 or €6,000. But I admit that it remains arbitrary, even if we put it at €10,000 later. But I understand the government's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u10	No, that's right, you can finally steal over what could be a good amount. I also understand what you are saying, that one amount may feel quite wrong, because one victim is, of course, much more affected than the other victim. Then it feels weird to choose for one amount. But perhaps that is precisely why we, as SP, say: make sure that that amount at least feels so that the people who have suffered from what happened to them in their youth for many years also feel not only recognized, but also recognised in that compensation. We have received too many signals from people who say: €5,000 is simply too limited. Then it could feel like a hit. I read back a piece that was about the Q fever. At the time, Minister Bruins opted for €15,000; lower would feel like a blow to the victims' face. That comparison never goes one-on-one, but I do think that by choosing too low an amount as government, you're also radiating that you're not taking it seriously enough. I wonder if the Christian Union would be willing to think about why we wouldn't raise that amount so that it feels like sincere recognition for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u11	I understand the reasoning. I also understand people's frustration. Furthermore, I understand that you can discuss whether it shouldn't be stabbed. I've been thinking about that, too. I also understand that you end up in a very difficult discussion of: what suffering has more effect on the functioning of people than other suffering? If one is classified into a lower category, one may want to challenge it:'my suffering is worth getting the highest benefit'. You can have discussions about that. About the amount: I continue to find that difficult, because even if we went to €7,000, we would probably still be failing people. Once again, I have been convinced that a monetary compensation is more important than the amount. I understand some people think the amount is too low. But let's wait and see what the cabinet has to say. I think it's always possible to discuss what amount you'll pay out in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u12	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u13	My proposal is expressly not to work with truffles. I think that's what happened with chromium-6. In that situation, that may have been very logical, but I would not suggest that. Our proposal is: if you choose an amount, make sure it is an amount that almost all victims feel as a sincere recognition. In addition, I put the question to the cabinet to see if in very specific situations of people who have become disabled for life, I suspect that there will not be hundreds of people who need to do more than just compensate, or that you should opt for compensation. That was my proposal. That is why I think it is particularly important that that amount goes up, because if you are not going to work with different levels of victimisation, however wrong that sounds, then that amount must be serious enough. At the moment, we think that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u14	I have also heard Mr Hijink's questions to the cabinet regarding those very specific groups. I feel that way, to see if there are any possibilities in that. But first I await the reaction of the cabinet to see to what extent there is room and understanding for that. Then we will have to look further in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. I also think it is a difficult debate. Mrs Westerveld was quite right to say that. You don't really do victims and peers justice. We can all feel in a child's vulnerability, because we are older ourselves or because we have nephews and nieces. We grant each child such warmth, love and a safe environment, and that goes so horribly wrong in so many lives. When we hear all these stories, sometimes live and sometimes from the De Winter Committee's report, about the reality of humiliation, isolation, violence and sexual abuse, we all get cold. It's very nasty. I spoke to another victim this week. It took us a few days to get on the phone. I thought, "Well, you will." But he said, yes, but I've been waiting 33 years. He said: "I have entered and walked into youth care institutions, and I have experienced the most horrible things there." He also mentioned one institution, in particular, where he had served a year and a half. He said, "Afterwards, I actually fell from the rain into the drip." Prostitution to keep itself up, drug use to stay up, spent years in homeless care and now, in fact, stable for a few years. He said, "The only thing I've ever achieved in my life is getting a driver's license, but I don't even have money to buy a car, because I have to get paid." Violence doesn't stop when they're not children anymore. Violence goes on all your life. And if people don't get the right help, and they don't get the right attention and the right recognition, it'll ruin their whole lives and it'll never be all right again. I think everyone feels that way. That is why it is so important that we have this debate here. We want to do justice to those victims. I was ashamed that I didn't pick up the phone right away and that it took a few days. Mr. Chairman. We need to look back and look forward. The money of compensation can never destroy the suffering, and yet it is important. I have a number of questions about that too. Why wasn't something similar chosen to the Samson Committee? It is said that there has been contact with fellow-fatemen, but I hear from fellow-fatemen that that is not the case. A number of other legitimate questions have been asked about this and I would very much like to have answered them. I do not want that because money does justice, but because money offers a certain kind of recognition, and also because a lot of people are just disadvantaged. Mr. Chairman. We also need to look forward. That is also what victims of us are asking, and that is what the De Winter Committee is asking us to do. First of all, I would like to know whether we are doing annual research into violence in youth care, and will we continue to do so? Does empirical research take place, so that we can also check whether what we are doing now in the field of youth care actually works? Otherwise we will need another De Winter committee in five years' time and we will not have learned from it. Yeah, the situation isn't like before the war or after the war, or like around 1945. The circumstances have changed. Yet many children are still victims of violence. My second question concerns the fact that we see that there are still a number of characteristics that were at the time a cause of violence. There is the financial situation: youth care is still a worry child when it comes to finance. The group size is also still a worry child, because this is still not sufficiently regulated and because there are still large groups. Well-trained and sufficient staff played a role at the time, but that still plays a role. How are we going to deal with that? How do we learn from the lessons of the past to prevent the same bad things from happening again in the future? And finally, supervision. That was a very big problem back then. However, we can see that in current situations the escalation ladder is still not working properly and that supervision is still not properly regulated. There are still many practices that we do not consider desirable with each other and which still ensure that children we put under supervision are not safe. What lesson can we learn from that? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask hundreds more questions, but I don't have that time. So I'd like to have the meeting with the cabinet later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Wörsdörfer on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Westerveld's and Mr Hijink's introductory remarks. I do have some questions. I think it's good to put it here, because it's also part of what we're doing here. There have indeed been terrible cases, and if you hear those stories, then the crying is closer to you than the laughing, and that is still gently expressed. It is clear that there has been a serious failure. As a government, we have not sufficiently protected our children. It is very important for the victims that we recognise these terrible experiences in full and pay attention to their pain. We are therefore participating in this debate for those victims. They want to be heard, I think they've been heard, and they want it never to happen again. We need to work on that. In consultation with the victims, a number of proposals have been put forward for recognition: excuses, financial compensation, a website, a congress and a physical monument. In addition, the aim is rightly to improve the offer of assistance and to offer a listening ear, also through fellow-fate contact. I welcome these proposals for recognition of suffering, although I do read a lot about matters such as investigations, an advisory committee and a survey, while it can simply be said that this was and is absolutely wrong. From now on, this should be done in such a way, even without jargon and everything around it. I agree with the questions that have already been asked, including by Westerveld, but also by Hijink, Voordewind and Mrs Kuik, in fact everyone, about the creation of the financial compensation. I think it would be a good idea if we could talk about this with the involvement of the fellow fates, because we are also getting those signals. On the subject of recognition, I have two additional suggestions. First of all, I think it is good that, if there is recognition activities, they are attended wherever possible by a representative of the Cabinet or someone on behalf of the Chamber, or both. I saw that the financial regulation will be opened up in a two-year period, but I believe that the deadline at the end should not be overly rigid. Can the rulers, but also the colleagues, embrace those points? Mr. Chairman. The committee makes many good, concrete recommendations to prevent violence in future, for example, to prevent placement in closed institutions as much as possible, to reduce group sizes, to ensure well-educated staff and to ensure educational continuity. Many of these recommendations on preventing violence and continuing learning are in line with the idea of the Youth Act: help as close and outpatient as possible. Unfortunately, although we have not been able to discuss this report before in the Chamber, I think we have been able to tighten up the necessary matters with motions and commitments. I hope that's how the victims experienced it. Policy responses to the recommendations are full of studies, lines of action, programmes and committees. Much must also be done, and that makes sense in itself, but the question is of course: do you still see the forest through the trees? And who's in charge? Complicated is the fact that, on the one hand, the urgency is felt of the improvements that are needed, while at the same time demonstrating the awareness that some of these recommendations take a lot of time. We also need to be realistic about the pace of implementation of all these recommendations. That's what we owe the victims. But let there be no misunderstanding about this: where possible, the turbo must of course be on it. I'm skipping a little bit because I see time is moving too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u19	You can keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u20	That's nice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it right away. Through everything there is a change in culture and a good education. Previously, GroenLinks and the VVD have tabled a motion to pay more attention to recognising domestic violence and child abuse. I think that, along the same lines, violence in the youth care sector, but also in other health care sectors, Mr Hijink mentioned the example of "too much" there. Does the Secretary of State share this idea? The motion by Mr Westerveld and myself on fewer removals has been voted in Chambers. How's that working out for you? And can the rulers participate in the movement of zero: zero removals, zero suicides and zero forced isolations? For this we will also have to learn from the past, and we will also have to follow children who have been in situations like this in the present. In fact, a motion has already been adopted for this. I believe that fewer removals can contribute to the reduction of those group sizes, an important recommendation from the committee. What's going on with that, anyway? Mr. Chairman. It is also important that aid workers listen to and have faith in those children, but also in the parents. Some suggestions were made in the round table we held last year. My question is whether they can be taken into account in the follow-up to the implementation of all recommendations. It is also important to ensure that care workers continue to develop. Think, for example, of recognizing behavioural problems caused by traumas, including in parents. Mr. Chairman. The recommendations are embraced and, as far as I am concerned, they can be seen as obligations for the cabinet, but also for us as auditors. That's important to say because that's an important signal to the victims. I therefore believe that the Chamber, as well as the victims, should be informed about progress. As far as I am concerned, the report of the De Winter Committee is now fully appointed as part of the Youth Care Action Programme and, if they so wish, victims are also regularly informed and involved. Can the rulers agree to this? Two more points, Mr. Chairman. According to the committee, more proactive monitoring of systematic and long-term exposure to violence is needed. The directors indicate that the inspection, looking at reports from 2019 and 2020, wants to learn to focus more on monitoring. How does the Secretary of State prevent a possible blind spot from getting bigger? Is independence secure enough? Finally, I would like to comment on the subject of a prevalence study. That is the last recommendation of the committee. I understand that we need to have knowledge and that we need to look at the frequency of violence, but let us also pay particular attention to how we prevent violence. That question should be included in further studies. My final question is therefore: are the rulers prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr Wörsdörfer is right to ask questions about how to deal with peers and how to prevent violence. He is also right to point out that several programmes are already under way and that, for example, a number of promises have already been made that there will be zero separations. A legislative proposal has now been submitted for consultation on the legal status of young people, but we do not really see that going back to zero separations. Does Mr Wörsdörfer agree with me that the legal protection of young people should also be better enshrined in legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u22	I agree. I also had the feeling that we have already put together a question about this in the cabinet once. So I do agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you. Oh, Mrs. Chicken has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u24	We have limited time. I therefore have a more informative question. I'll come back to the concession. I know Mr Wörsdörfer as someone who also has a lot of contacts with peers and victims. It is therefore a pity that as a VVD member he will leave the Chamber. I understand that peers have only recently been informed and that they have not been so much taken into account. Does Mr Wörsdörfer recognize that sound?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u25	I've been getting alternate signals. I have heard that there are fellow-countrymen who have indeed been included in the initial phase and who have been consulted, but I have also received the same signal as Mrs Kuik. In the last month I have heard from various quarters that there are fellow-countrymen who have not been heard and who claim that they have not been taken sufficiently. That is why I have joined the questions that have been asked, because that seems to me to be relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u26	Clear. Then let's wait for the cabinet's response. I have a second question. That is a question I would have liked to ask myself, but I did not ask it. There are also a number of people who no longer have any data on the time they were in child care. How do we deal with that? I'm still a little puzzled with that. If you can't prove that yourself, you can't claim that forever. That's gonna cost a lot of paperwork. Is that something you recognize from the conversations you've had? And, if so, why don't we look together and see if we can come up with something for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u27	I don't recognize it directly, but if these cases are there, then I think we should think about that. Moreover, I believe that the De Winter Committee has been extremely thorough. She has tried in every possible way to help people to do their story, even if not everything is fixed anymore. That is, of course, the starting point, but if a group is in danger of falling out of the boat, we should pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u28	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u29	Then we are waiting here for the Minister's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you, Mr. Wörsdörfer. I'm gonna wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. I now give the floor to Mr Jansen on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr. Chairman. The De Winter Committee has come up with a harsh conclusion. Children who were placed out of their homes and taken care of in an institution or foster home were not adequately protected. This is a very sad conclusion, because these children should have been welcomed with love. But instead, they have been abandoned by the government. Deep excuses, recognition, help and compensation are in any case in place. Mr. Chairman. It cannot be understood that so many children have been victims of violence. They are violent and sad stories full of misery from children who had not had it easy at home and who had experienced all the necessary things at home. It wasn't safe at home, but they end up in an unsafe situation again. For many children the removal was in itself traumatic. Why do children like criminals sometimes suddenly even literally move away from one or both parents to a arresting van, sometimes in the middle of the night? Are you sure there's no other way to do this? This just has to be different. Often this traumatic removal is just the beginning of even more misery, even more grief. The children have fallen from the rain into the drip. They told the most horrible stories about their stay. Humiliation, neglect, emotional abuse, physical abuse, sexual assault, it was all no exception. Children who are placed out of their homes are three times more likely to be victims of serious abuse, while they need to be treated in a safe, loving situation. Many of these victims experience the consequences of this violence to this day. To this day, many of them are being helped to process what they have been through. They're stuck in their lives. These children, adults now, therefore deserve our support, also financially. They have been the victims of a negligent government. Of course, no amount can take away the pain and misery, but it may be able to alleviate them in some way. The amount of €5,000 seems extremely low for the damage suffered. How can anyone, regardless of experience or in some cases even sustained injury, be granted the same amount? The Secretary of State himself quotes from his letter "that we are not dealing with a homogeneous group of victims, but with many different people with each their own story, which varies according to circumstances and background, with strongly changing needs and thoughts on recognition and support." How can he come to the conclusion that everyone is granted the same amount? His advice is to go to court in the event of insufficient satisfaction. In our view, as far as possible should be avoided. Money is not everything and certainly does not make everything right, but here the rulers really drop. Mr. Chairman. This needs to be completed in a proper way. The 24-page letter of these rulers does not reassure me much. The references to the current action plans do not reassure me very much. The reactions of victims do not reassure me very much. It is good that extra money is available for trust work. More than half of the victims have not shared violence with anyone as a child, but a closed system does not invite them to talk. A confidant in the service of the institution does not invite to talk. These kids have little faith in people. What is the accessibility of these confidants? Are they available if the children really need them or are they only accessible during office hours? In the letter, the Secretary of State discusses the prevention of removals. Good initiatives and outpatient guidance have been developed at home. Is this guidance available nationally and is it also being looked at whether children who are now staying in an institution can quickly return home with this form of support and guidance? A Your Inserted Mentor, a JIM, can make a big difference here. Unfortunately, I do not read anything about this in the letter from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the conclusions of the report are not new. Earlier committees and reports came to the same sad conclusions. This violence beats so many wounds. Deep down, there's so much pain. The fact that this violence has taken place under the supervision of the government is particularly poignant. We must acknowledge that things have gone wrong and are still going wrong. We need to prevent a few of us from standing here again with the same results from a new committee. The recommendations must be translated into policies, not only for these victims, but above all to prevent future victims. Then all the misery that has been going on for decades has not been for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're a young child. Curious and with an open mind you look into the world. Playing with boyfriends and girlfriends. Have fun at school. At home, loving parents wait and you feel completely safe. In short, life is laughing at you. Unfortunately, this was not a reality for a group of children. They grew up in an unsafe situation. I'm thinking about the story of a girl who played out in the sixties. I can imagine her being picked up at home, getting into a car with strange people and being taken to a children's home, locking her stomach from all the uncertainty, grief and fear and not getting a bite through her throat. That's what I suffer from when I'm under stress, like today. I try to eat little bites and choose food I like. Not the little girl. She was forced to eat hard-handedly. This little girl... let's call her Mrs. Jansen... She still suffers from the consequences every day. I was shocked by these and many other stories in the De Winter Committee's report. I'm stunned that this could have happened. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr De Winter and his committee for their listening and extensive research into the abuses in youth care. At the request of the Chamber, hearing impaired and visually impaired people were also included in the investigation. The report shows that that is right. Now, one and a half years later, we finally come to talk about the investigation. And it's about time. I agree with previous speakers and wish victims, relatives and families a great deal of strength in this debate. Because we're talking about defenseless kids who we had to put out of our homes to protect them from a dangerous situation at home. But instead of offering them a safe environment, we took them to places some of which have nightmares for the rest of their lives. Fortunately, most shelters offer a lot of love, attention and care. Yet there are still places where things go wrong, where children are at risk. And that's unacceptable. Mr. Chairman. I hope that Mrs Jansen will now receive the aftercare she deserves, because the survey shows that 36% of the victims do not know where to find this aftercare. The government must ensure that these people can find and get aftercare. After all, the government is partly responsible for the victimisation of people like Mrs Jansen. That is why I ask the directors whether a central information point is not too passive. How can we help these victims more actively and shake hands? Can numbers indicate what has already been achieved in aftercare? How many people have been approached? How many people take advantage of the offer? Aftercare is the least we can do, of course, in addition to recognition and apology. Because they want to see that gross mistakes have been made and they want to see that the stories are not forgotten. The government has dropped huge amounts of money in youth care. Victims' confidence is fragile or broken. It is a good thing that excuses are at the forefront, but as a political figure we must also show that we are continuing to address abuses in youth care, with all the attention that this deserves. We need to achieve results with the recommendations of the report, such as improving monitoring. When I read what progress has been made, I feel that, according to the cabinet, little needs to be changed. Monitoring will remain risk-driven and reactive, despite the fact that the committee recommends otherwise. I therefore ask the Minister what other steps have been taken in concrete terms as a result of this report. What has been said: from now on, are we going to do this differently? It is a good thing that children in closed youth care can talk to a trusted person on a weekly basis, but how is it ensured that in other forms of care the children are talked about instead of about them? Kids should be able to tell their stories safely. Mr. Chairman. In addition to political excuses and actions, practical things can make a huge contribution to recognition. From letters I understand that peers do not feel heard, that they are concerned about whether the recommendations are not being dealt with too voluntarily. My colleague Wörsdörfer also asked about it. I would therefore like to hear from the directors how they view this, and also when, for example, we can expect that documentary and what the developments of the monument are. In addition, I know that the majority of the victims believe that financial support should be equal for all, and that it should primarily go hand in hand with adequate aftercare or at least a conversation. It is good that the €5,000 scheme as compensation for victims will start from 2021. However, I would ask the Minister: how is this concession not going to cause a lot of hassle, for example because the application is too cumbersome? Finally. Let us take a first step today to restore confidence, hopefully. We owe it to all the victims that we take action as a government. We must show decisiveness in the recognition, in the aftercare, the supervision. This report should therefore never disappear in the drawer, because it sketches shocking stories that we have to keep telling. What has happened to Mrs Jansen and all those others must be prevented at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u34	It is okay that you use Mrs Jansen as an example; you have to choose a name, I understand. I do have a question for D66. Like all the other parties, you are also talking about the financial compensation, the financial regulation. Do you find the amount of €5,000 a good amount? Because you say that you are based on clarity, but you also say that it is not up to us or the cabinet to decide to work with degrees, or perhaps to look at other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you for this question, because I also know that there is a lot of unrest about it and that people are very worried: is the amount really enough? That is also your question, and that has also been raised by other Members of Parliament this afternoon. I think that amount is always arbitrary, so you can always wonder if it's high enough. I am curious, like other Members of Parliament, to hear the answers of the leaders to questions that have been asked before in this Chamber, and I think it would be useful to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u36	Of course it is a good thing to wait for the answer, but if you look at the Samson Committee, for example, you have chosen a different gradation, which has been looked at in different backgrounds and amounts have been set against it. This is where clarity is chosen, while there are also very different things. In the words of the Secretary of State and the Minister, it is not a homogeneous group. They are all people with different backgrounds, different forms of abuse and duration of abuse, so why is this clarity here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u37	That is a choice made by the cabinet, and I am curious to see how they have made that choice. Look, as you say, the Samson Commission was also stagnating, so it might be that someone is going to get a lower amount than €5,000. I have no idea if we should want to. I understand, however, that the balance has been made to choose just one amount, because that might also be a slightly easier arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u38	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u39	In my opinion, €5,000 as a bottom amount is only real. Lower seems like a real blow to the face, one more time. But just to say we shouldn't look at the top, we think it's a little rigid. We shall return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u40	I stumbled a bit about Mrs Van Beuker saying: a majority wants one fixed sum. And strictly speaking, she's right about that, but if you look at the numbers, it's 51%. So it is a majority, but a substantial minority, a third of the victims, is precisely saying that they prefer to have a conversation, and on the basis of what actually happened to us, they want to get some compensation. So can Mrs Van Beuker indicate how she looks at the SP proposal? So how does she look at the fact that, for example, you would increase the basic amount, so that a larger group will also find itself sufficiently recognised in the suffering that has been caused, and that you still keep the way open for a certain group to look further at that amount, whether that is €5,000 or €10,000, to meet the actual costs and suffering that may have occurred to them in decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u41	Do I understand the SP correctly that you're actually asking for two things? You are asking for an increase in the amount of €5,000 and also for customisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u42	Sure. I just explained that. We want to increase that amount of €5,000 to €10,000. I think that would allow you to give a much larger group recognition. In addition, there will always be people who feel passed, whatever amount you choose. That's what several people have already said. I understand that very well. If your whole childhood is destroyed, you have become disabled and you have to this day, day in, day out, suffer from what has happened to you, you still do not feel sufficiently recognized at €10,000 or €20,000. That is why we say that for a certain group the way should remain open to say on top of a basic amount: "My whole life has been destroyed. I want to talk about what happened and the costs I've made and maybe still make. I want compensation instead of compensation." That is the proposal we are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u43	The second part of the SP I can quite well follow, that in a conversation with people people are being looked at if there is perhaps something more possible, if there is any customization possible. But the first part, the whole amount immediately increase from €5,000 to €10,000... I think we should wait for the answers of the rulers first. I wonder whether or not €10,000 will be enough. But it's still a very difficult discussion. You also notice some hesitation in me, because I can also well imagine that any amount is too low if you are a victim and have been abused a few times or years, if you wake up because of a nightmare about what happened to you. I really think it's an arbitrary discussion we're having with each other. I wouldn't have used the word "majority" myself. You put that in my mouth yourself. I had chosen a slightly different answer to Mr Jansen's questions. I think we should stay away from this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u44	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u45	But what's happening now, I don't like it either. We cannot say that, because any amount actually falls short of the suffering that has been done to people, we have to accept that it is a low amount. I think that is a really wrong reasoning. You may not mean that, but I hear it said several times now: because every amount is debatable, we have to accept that the government is proposing an amount of €5,000, which is quite minimal, if you look at other damages schemes. That's why I'm asking D66. I'm not asking what the cabinet wants, because we know that. It already told us in a letter. That's $5,000. I ask D66 if D66 finds that a real amount, or do you think, like the SP, that a higher amount would be more appropriate to the suffering that has been done to people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u46	I follow the SP pretty far when it comes to the piece of customization. I do not follow the SP when it comes to extracting from me a statement that the amount is not high enough. Questions have been asked to the cabinet about how this amount was achieved. I'd like to know more about that. The second point is: 'That is what I have tried very emphatically to say in my speech, 'That we consider other points very important, such as the recommendations that have been made and the part that has been taken after care. Monitoring needs to be improved. I would also like to focus on this, because I think that the victims who have experienced this ask us a number of questions. They are not just asking for a financial arrangement. They also ask: do not let our stories be lost; please let us know that there will be some improvement in the coming years. I think that's what we're responsible for as a chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you. Oh, Mrs Westerveld. No, Mr Peters will be next. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u48	I thought Mr Peters was going to walk too. That's why I waited. Mrs Van Beuker has made a whole point of recognition. Rightly so, because it is very important for the victims that they are recognised and that there is good aftercare. There are several lottery groups working on various initiatives, including the monument. These peer groups indicate that there is quite a bit of guidance from the ministries, but that the amount they ask for is not fully reimbursed either. I would like to ask how Mrs Van Beuker looks at that. Does she agree with me, with GroenLinks, that this type of initiative is very important for processing and that these peer groups deserve all the support from the national government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u49	I wholeheartedly agree with my colleague from GroenLinks. I think that we should continue to have the conversation with each other right now, that we should remain in dialogue. If it turns out it's crunching or sanding somewhere, then we need to talk about that here in the Chamber, I think. That is why I asked for a progress of that documentary and the monument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u50	Then I have a more specific question. I understand from this peer group that they are asking for an amount of around €160,000 for that monument. The Ministry pays about €100,000 of that. For the other part, it's still unclear. I would like to ask Mrs Van Beuker: how does she view that? Does she agree with me that, even when it comes to amounts of this kind, it is important that these peer groups receive all the support from ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u51	I think, wherever possible, we should definitely ask the Ministry to look up that space. We have only just had a budget debate and an autumn report this morning, so I am a little hesitant in that regard. But I do agree with you that if that space is there, it must definitely be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr President, I have a point to make, not on this, but on the budget. We have, of course, also struggled with it, as with the increase in the amount. The tricky thing is that this debate is now planned, all the way in the last week, so that nobody here can do anything about it and the budget treatment has just been done. So if you're talking about amounts, I hope we can really keep looking at the content here instead of looking at what time you have to deal with something, because of course we can't help it that this debate is only now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u53	I think we are all very much in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr. Chairman. Over the past period, I have spoken several times with peers, so people who told me what they have been through in the past in the youth care sector. A lot of things have stayed with me. A lot hit me, too. But the deepest thing struck me was the feeling of people that they weren't seen, barely noticed and denied. That denial, that desolation, makes people small, broken sometimes, often as much as physical abuse or abuse. We've abandoned young people who needed us the most. That's bad. That's really bad. Mr. Chairman. We have all read the conclusions of the De Winter Committee. Most of us have read more than just those conclusions. Here, therefore, sincere compliments fit in with the work of that committee. It is a clear, transparent picture of reality, however raw, that has been put in it. We've had conversations in the Chamber and out there with people sitting at home watching. Let us be clear: your suffering is inexplicable, hardly easy to soothe and not even fully felt by non-unlucky fellows. But it's been seen. It's been noticed. It's written down. And it's important that the story be told and kept being told. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, it is very clear: as a society, we have failed and abandoned vulnerable people. Once again, an apology must be made for this. Mr. Chairman. In addition to absolute recognition, it is equally important that we learn from the past and do everything in our power to prevent neglect, denial, violence and abuse from occurring. This should have and keep our attention and focus. Mr. Chairman. In addition to making excuses, is the Minister prepared to monitor quality with young people and direct the prevention of past mistakes? Is the Minister prepared to keep the House of Representatives regularly informed? And is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the House of Representatives on a regular basis? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that we do not really want large residential institutions but that we should strive for a transition to close, small-scale, specialised family homes? Can the Minister state what is going on with the implementation of my motion which calls for direction towards that small scale? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the recognition of victimisation and the prevention of repetition, we believe that continuous and structural dialogue and, above all, assistance for victims is important. Can former victims be involved in improvement projects, so that they feel they are now being seen and heard? Is the Minister prepared to engage and facilitate such a continuous and structural dialogue with them? Mr. Chairman. After recognition, the prevention of repetitions and that structural dialogue, a place is needed to come together, to mourn. And then not only on the internet, but also physically, in the form of a monument. Mrs Westerveld spoke of that. I also understand that resources have been made available to build such a monument, but that more may also be needed. Can both rulers undertake that this will be settled within reasonable limits between the different ministries, so that there is no need to worry about it as fellow fates? Finally. An amount has been set aside for victims. Let me be clear: no amount is high enough to compensate for or even compensate for damage. It is a small gesture and for the CDA not necessarily the height is the most important, although I can imagine that some people describe it as a tip. For me, the most important thing is that the burden of proof is low, that the amount is simply allocated and that if there are people Mrs Kuik mentioned who have no data, those people will be helped to get their rights. We need to facilitate it for those people. It is particularly important that it cannot be taken into account with surcharges or that it cannot be taken into account in any other way. I think it is important that no unnecessary difference is made in suffering and that fatemates are given some direction in the way they pay out. Finally, it is important for the Minister to state clearly that this gesture, because that is what it is, is not going to stand in the way of any legal proceedings. Mr. Chairman. We've left people firmly behind. We can't make it up to you. We can apologize, look people in the eye and make them feel that they are seen and heard, now and from now on, and that the story of peers has been seen, heard and kept to be told. And above all, we can make our efforts to improve our care for our youth. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u56	I just wanted to ask you a question about good care. What strikes me a little bit, when we talk about victims of violence or sexual violence, both in child care and in their later lives, is that often they do not ask "are you victims of violence or sexual violence?" This applies both to young people and to people in their later lives. Is that something Mr Peters recognizes as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u57	I do not think that that standard is the first question people ask, but I can imagine that, like the question of whether there might be underlying debts, this could be a question in the care that you try to touch very gently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u58	We have discussed it before in the debate. I think this is really a taboo that needs to be broken. So whether people join school social work, or the UWV or the company doctor, for example because they have a burn-out, that question has to come on the table sometime. It is my experience that people don't get to a psychologist first because they have a sexual or other history of violence, but because they come home with a burn-out, for example. Couldn't the two of us have a say in that, too, is my simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u59	I like breaking all the lances with Mrs. Chicken, including this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u60	Fine. Then we can continue the discussion with the cabinet about this in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr Peters, like the others here, speaks with great appreciation for the victims. I think it's a good thing we're talking about that here. I'd like to ask him what he thinks about the continued use of force. We have both been talking about youth aid for about four years now, and we have had regular debates here. We have also discussed the position of young people in youth care institutions on a regular basis. We have talked about isolation; we have talked about groups that are too large. I would like to ask Mr Peters how he looks at that now. What should he think should happen to prevent future victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u62	First of all, Mrs Westerveld: yes, that is so and yes, we recognise that as well. I think we're all really the expensive, expensive duty to make sure that's better, that we're actually moving towards zero. Totally zero may not go, but that we are going towards zero residential; that we are actually going towards zero removals. That movement needs to be deployed, and we're gonna use it. We're gonna have to take control of that, too. I have also just asked in my speech how we can promote that direction. On the other hand, it happens sometimes that residential institutions suddenly fall over and that we then have a problem. So that focus, that direction, we need. I think not only the two of us think so, but we think it is Chamberwide. For the time being, I'd like to make myself felt for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u63	We think it is Chamberwide and I think the cabinet agrees, but it takes a very long time. We've been telling each other for four years that we're sorry that children are being locked up. That we're sorry that there's still compulsion in treatments. That we're sorry that there are many removals and that violence is being used. That's what we've been saying to each other for four years. It is true that all kinds of plans are being made. I think we're still not getting enough of the performance. Of course, that has everything to do with a shortage of staff. So I would like to ask Mr Peters: when is he satisfied and what should happen in the very short term, so that we can really prevent the victims, including violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u64	First of all, I should like to say that Mr Peters has no magic wand and can say that from now on all the problems in the world have been solved. I have a focus on that. You have one, too. Plans have been made. I think we should check that these plans are being properly implemented. We need to monitor that. I asked the Secretary of State and the Minister to take control of it, to actively inform us and to talk to us on a regular basis. They will have to do the latter, but I wonder if they want to promise those first two things as well. Then we'll just have to do it. I am only satisfied when no one feels small or unhappy anymore, or is mistreated or abused. I know, and you know this too, that it is very difficult, no matter what I do here, to organise it in this way. But it's our focus and we're going for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u65	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u66	A very short question. We've seen a bill in consultation. This is about the legal protection of young people. Does Mr Peters agree with me that we should also legally lay down that young people have more rights and that, for example, separation is no longer allowed? There are, of course, a number of safeguards now, but it still happens too often. Does he agree with me that we need a better legal definition of young people's rights here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u67	I will answer the same question as Mr Wörsdörfer: yes, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors need a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u69	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When a child has to leave his parents, the impact is enormous. No matter how bad the circumstances at home are, you miss your trusted environment as a child. You feel lonely and rejected. And if you do not get protection, love, comfort or warmth at a new address, in an institution or in a foster home, but are dealing with insecurity, abuse, abuse or forced labour, then trauma occurs. Then there's fear, sadness, and powerlessness, and that's going to work for the rest of your life. Anyone who hears or reads the stories of victims in De Winter's report gets a particularly penetrating picture. That's what really hit me. An image of a chronic lack of attention and safety, just when it was most needed. Many victims indicated that they often for years were afraid to talk about what had happened, often because no one wanted to listen to them or because they simply were not believed. As a result, many felt that what had happened to them was their fault. That is why it is so important that we have this investigation, that the truth has come out and that, as a society and as a cabinet, we can say to any victim: it was not your fault. The De Winter Committee has shown that the government has been seriously failing in the supervision of youth care. We have not been able to protect some of the children who have been removed from home under the responsibility of the government since 1945 from the violence they faced. I thank the committee for its thorough work. I find it heartbreaking that this protection has been denied to so many people and that they have not been listened to or listened to too little. The stories of so many victims that I have had the opportunity to speak at various meetings over the past few years have been intrusive again and again. Their experiences run counter to the standards we set ourselves. Minister De Jonge and I, in our letter to all the victims last year, apologized for the fact that the government did not adequately protect them. I reiterated this at the meeting with victims on 21 February 2020 and also at the meeting with the girls, the women of the Good Shepherd on 25 August 2020. I'd like to do the same in this house, in your room. In recent years, in recent decades, the government has failed to protect itself. The government has not given the children that happened to them the protection they were entitled to. This includes recognition and apology. This recognition is also provided by a contribution here in the plenary. Thank you so much for doing that for this Christmas, even though there are a lot of other things going on. Mr Blokhuis will discuss the structural improvements in youth care in order to prevent future violence, many of which relate to the system and the lessons that can be learned. I shall now turn to the recognition package, the measures including the financial regulation. Mr. Chairman. We can't erase the past. We can try to do better now than we used to. We must acknowledge what has happened and listen better to the victims. This recognition is very important. Recognition has two main objectives. Firstly, it must help to deal with the suffering of the victims themselves, but secondly, recognition also has a public function. We must not forget what happened in the Netherlands, so we must ensure that stories, no matter how black, are kept. How did we arrive at this package? Just as the De Winter Committee did, we have been guided by principles of what is called 'transitional justice'. We're trying to do that together as much as we can. We have set up a careful process in which the victims were explicitly involved. In special working groups, together with the industry and a number of peer groups, the first wishes and suggestions were collected. These were then tested in broader peer meetings. I have attended a number myself. The results have been deepened in a number of sessions with peers. On top of that, we conducted a survey on recognition among the De Winter reporters who were known to us. The advisory committee of this survey also had peers. My colleague from VWS and I have listened to what victims said to be important. I've spoken to victims myself on several occasions. I would like to stress that we are not dealing with a homogeneous group of victims and peers, but with many different people with different wishes. Everyone, of course, has their own story. The need for and thoughts about recognition vary greatly. The choice of how to implement recognition lies, of course, with us. Conversations with fellow-party organisations have shown that financial compensation is important for many victims. I would like to go into this in more detail later, because you had a lot of questions about that. It was also found that only a financial arrangement was not considered sufficient by many. Of course, such a financial arrangement receives a lot of attention, but I think it is important to highlight the wide recognition pallet here. What's that look like? There are a number of important elements in this. For starters, there's been a lot of telling, remembering and saving. You can save stories with, for example, a website, a documentary or a monument. A second element is the financial support of fellow fate contact, in the form of an infrastructure to which peers can fall back. In addition, there is support in terms of care and guidance to care, and finally the financial regulation. I would like to end these four elements. The victim survey identified by a large group that persistently telling, remembering and preserving is an important part for them, and that a website and a documentary are important elements of recognition. For them, remembering, removing from the taboo sphere and not forgetting are important. We therefore finance a website with the aim of creating a digital monument for victims as a form of oral history, you might say. In addition, we have a documentary made that reflects the importance of telling the stories, and the importance of taking them out of the taboo and learning from them. A sounding board group of peers thinks along and advises on the content of both the website and the documentary. We expect to have the first versions ready in spring 2021. The stories of victims who want to be kept. I refer to the stories recorded by the De Winter Committee. In the long term, they will also be available for research. De Winter's archive will be transferred to the National Archives in a number of years, after completion of the financial arrangement. Then a monument. A number of questions have been asked. A monument had not emerged as a wish from the previous rounds of conversations or fellow fate meetings. In the survey, this was only mentioned a few times. Following the petition of a group of initiators for a monument, which your Chamber sent to us, we added this form of recognition to the package. This initiative is also financially supported. Originally, the initiators indicated that they thought they needed about €50,000 for a monument. Later, the costs for the design and support were added. Then it had to be dressed a little further with an increase and benches around it. I can imagine. I know these kinds of monuments from victims of violent crimes, for example. We said at that time that we would increase that amount further. We then doubled it from €50,000 to €100,000. I have the impression that for that amount a beautiful place of remembrance can be set up and set up. Then the financial support of fellow fate contact. This, too, is reflected in the survey, which has been seen as particularly valuable by many victims. It is precisely the fact that people have experienced the same and have the same experiences and memories that gives understanding and recognition that others cannot offer. I've seen a lot of that myself at meetings like this. You can have so many conversations, but if you haven't been in such an institution yourself, it's still different. That is why the contact of victims adds a lot to each other. For this reason, we also want to provide financial support for peer contact. The branches together have now allocated a total of €100,000 for the past and the current year. They have transferred this to SKIP and is intended for all fellow fate organisations under the target group De Winter. In this context, the De Winter Committee referred to the initiative of the KursHuis. These are a number of fellow-fate organizations trying to come together to create a federation, a dome. Not all fellow fate organisations are involved in the establishment of the KursHuis. At the request of the founding party itself, we have waited until a legal entity has been formed to subsidise the KursHuis. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved so far, but in recent years there has been money for that fellow lottery contact. Because there is not yet a legal entity, we as a government have chosen to place the money for peer contact with Victim Aid Netherlands. For the next three years, that's another one and a half tonnes. Organisations and individuals who organise support activities for peers may use these resources as from 1 January through Victim Support. Fate mates are thus not dependent on the formation of the KursHuis to get their initiatives funded. I have heard that many fellow-party organisations are pleased with the role we have given Victim's Aid in this. Mr. Chairman. Then the distraction to care. The De Winter reporter survey showed that about a third of them need support in finding suitable help. The Trimbos Institute is currently setting up one central information and expertise point for victims. My colleague Mr Blokhuis will tell us more about this later. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wörsdörfer asked whether members of the cabinet would also like to be present at memorial meetings and fellow fate meetings. I can assure you that Mr Blokhuis and I will certainly try to do so at some of the important moments and meetings. All in all, I am of the opinion that I am going to go into the financial aspect of the report that we have come up with a balanced package of recognition measures, also in order to show its breadth. Of course, we can never undo the suffering. There will also be victims who would have liked something else or something more. All things considered, I think we have gone through a careful process and laid down a wide range of recognition measures. Of course, there is a great deal of attention to the financial compensation arrangement announced by the VWS Minister and I in our letter of 21 February this year. We have also noticed this at the various fellow fate meetings we have visited. I would like to take you back to the considerations we have made in order to arrive at this arrangement. A lot of questions have been asked about that. The first consideration we had to make was whether we would come to a financial settlement at all. The De Winter Committee, for example, had not made any recommendations. In addition, the field of youth care was rather complicated, especially in a somewhat further past. The question arose as to the role of the public authorities and the various private institutions in the sector. Nevertheless, the same survey among the reporters showed that 85% considered a financial regulation to be very important. We therefore have to tell you that, after a good deal of effort and effort, this was a deliberate choice of compensation, as part of a broader recognition palette. It may not be entirely on the board of the government, but in all cases the government has failed in its supervision. Mr. Chairman. We have made this decision in the knowledge that there will always be discussion about such a financial arrangement. We have taken this into account in the question of whether we should do this at all. The answer to that was yes. In addition to many of the collective measures and hand-outs in the package, we consider it important to achieve an individual scheme in the financial sense. I would like to stress that this is not about compensation for damage or suffering, but about compensation as a form of recognition. I would like to repeat to Mr Peters that this does not deprive people of their rights to still hold others liable for specific damage suffered, which also depends on how long it has been. Mr. Chairman. That was step one: are we going to come to such an arrangement at all? Then step two was that we carefully considered how to achieve a fair and sincere settlement that does justice to the suffering of victims. We were really dealing with different dilemmas. For example, how do you deal with the differences that exist in what victims have experienced? In the De Winter Committee's report you can read about forms of vertical violence, by supervisors and leaders towards young people, but you can also read that vertical violence has made way more recently for forms of horizontal violence. That's the development De Winter describes so well. That was certainly the case in residential institutions, between children who sat there and treated each other. In other words, how do you do justice to the differences in experiences, both in heaviness and in form? What's the amount that fits? Is that supposed to be one amount or not? Should there be different categories? How do we prevent secondary victimisation? The first consideration was whether we should come to one or more categories. In addition, we have done two things. Firstly, we have put this question to the victims themselves. In any event, this made it clear that the views of victims on the financial regulation differ widely. I think we can never satisfy everyone in that regard. We received from the survey the impression, already cited by Mr Hijink, that a very small majority of 51% of those surveyed was for a fixed sum. Another substantial proportion of the respondents, 34%, asked for differentiated amounts. But anyway, there were a little more people for one variant than for the other. Secondly, we have looked at what we can learn from past arrangements. With this I also directly answer the question of the Christian Union to the choice of a generic amount while the group was so diverse. This also answers GroenLinks' question: the Samson Committee used several categories. We considered that, too. For example, it would be three or four categories. It is true that the Samson Committee had these categories. I believe it was between €1,000 and €35,000. For example, when it comes to violence, we have looked at the categories €1,000, €2,500, €3,500 and €5,000. We also looked at whether you might have to do something with a hardness clause for people who are then up there again. But the experts, the experts involved in the temporary arrangement, have also pointed out to us that the use of different categories also has a downside. In addition, they indicated that a tailor-made concession requires a great deal of burden of proof, with the risk of secondary victimisation. All these opinions, including the advice of the compensation fund and the De Winter Committee, have led us to the conclusion that it is best to work with one lump sum so that we as a government are not asked to weigh the suffering of one against the other. But at least as important, or perhaps even more important, is that we can ensure that the procedure remains relatively simple and that we can work with a low burden of proof, so that the stress and possible wounds that this brings to the fore are also reduced in the case of victims. Then how do we know the amount, the €5,000? We checked to see if we could find any reference points there. The Samson Committee's example was cited; it was about sexual violence. We have also looked at reference points in the field of physical violence. On the one hand, for example, the highest category of benefits based on violence in the Roman Catholic Church was considered in response to the Deetman Commission. It had a number of truffles, with the highest regular category being €5,000. On the other hand, it has been examined which injury category of the compensation fund was the most comparable. We came to the conclusion that this is category 3, which is associated with psychological injuries caused by systematic violence, with serious violence of very long duration and high frequency. That too is an amount of €5,000. In the final decision on the choice of the amount, the consideration was that as the amount increases, of course, the demands on the burden of proof also increase, as this also increases the risk of abuse. In other words, we have had to choose between a low burden of proof and customisation. It turned out to be very difficult, actually impossible, to unite those two. That is why we have come up with this proposal, this regulation. Mr. Chairman. The scheme has already been published in the Official Journal last month. On 1 January 2021, the scheme shall enter into force and victims may apply to the compensation fund by means of an application form. Victims can now leave all their data on the website so that they are informed about the start of the scheme. The compensation fund can help victims to obtain information that is used as support, for example if someone has been in a foster home or institution. That is also something we have learned from the Samson scheme, where it was not and victims had to do it themselves. For many victims, that was very incriminating. We're trying to give them real help with this. The Compensation Fund Violent Crimes has also been prepared for the implementation of the scheme and has also consulted peer organisations on it. All in all, it is a scheme in which we have tried to keep the burden of proof low and to accommodate victims as much as possible. Mrs Westerveld's question was what is meant by 'excessive violence'. Then let me take a look back at the report of the De Winter Committee. He's also talking about excessive violence. That's different than getting into a fight once. It happens. Of course, that can happen in many schools. This really is about violence involving systematic, recurrent, structural violence. The Damage Fund Violent Crimes also explains on the victim's website exactly what that means. The question was how fellow fate organisations were involved in this scheme and to what extent they had a say in it. I have just said something about the important turns that we had to take in order to shape this scheme and how we have involved the views of victims. But we have also taken into account the concerns raised by the fellow-fate organizations in the drafting of the regulation. I would like to explain a few of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u71	I don't know how far you're about? I can imagine that Members of Parliament still need to ask some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u72	Yeah, if it's up-to-date... I'm approaching my end, but then I'll be all done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u73	Well, not your end, but the end of your contribution. Okay, then you can finish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr. Chairman. For example, the WOMP, one of the parties of the KursHuis, raised the point of children who were voluntarily placed, but have come into contact with violence. We have said that if they were staying in an institution under the responsibility of the government, they would also be covered by the scheme. Minor victims of violence in a blind or deaf internate and adult psychiatry may also apply. That was one of the points raised by the same organisation and by the organization De Unseen Blind. The organization that stands up for the girls of the Good Shepherd, KMGH, has asked attention for next of kin. In their constituency are elderly and sick in the final phase of their lives. Unfortunately, a victim may have died after the financial compensation has been announced, in the past year, but before the scheme enters into force. That, too, is a valid point that we have addressed in the scheme. In other words, with the input of fellow-party organisations, we have tried to make it a reasonable arrangement. Then there is the question of the coincidence with the Samson scheme. Under the Samson scheme, only victims of sexual abuse were eligible for compensation, but their implementation revealed that there were also applications involving physical or psychological violence. That wasn't part of the arrangement. That was one of the reasons for doing this investigation. If a victim applies for the current scheme and has previously received compensation on the basis of the Samson scheme, both applications will be examined. If there are circumstances that could not be taken into account under the Samson regime, such as severe physical violence, then a victim is eligible for €5,000. If the story is the same as under the Samson scheme and a concession has already been granted, then the difference between the previously paid amount and this €5,000 is eligible, based on the assumption that it is not possible to apply for a grant from the government several times for the same fact. Mr. Chairman. Then the influence on surcharges. I understand that all too well. If, after a very long wait, you think you are eligible for compensation as part of recognition, what does that mean for other benefits you receive, such as benefits or allowances? This is the responsibility of our fellow executives, including SZW and Finance. That is why we have not been able to say anything about this before. But we pulled it pretty hard. In the meantime, the Minister for Social Affairs has indicated that this arrangement does not affect assistance. I think that's good news. In Gemeente nieuws van SZW there is also a message about the municipalities, so that it is clear there too. The Minister for Finance has stated that there is no effect on the surcharges either. This scheme is considered to be intangible compensation and therefore does not include any additional capital test. Victims may request this. Mr. Hijink specifically asked about The Good Shepherd. Why was it taken? He gets less attention in the De Winter Committee. That was the reason for further investigation. But it has always been said that forced labour is also a form of violence and must be taken into account. That is why the girls are also the women, I always say; in the meantime, women at the age of De Goede Shepherd are eligible for the compensation. Mr Hijink says: but when we look at other countries, we also see other arrangements. Yeah, that's right. Reference is often made to the scheme in Ireland, which is substantially higher. But I also know countries where De Goede Herder's institutions were, for example, France, Germany and Sweden, where nothing special has been done and no financial compensation has been given at all. That is why I think it is reasonable to include this group of women in this. Mr. Chairman. Then the concrete question of GroenLinks: what about cases after 2019? My colleague will discuss liability or negligence in cases of suicide. It is now the case that when young people become victims of violence during their stay in an institution, which is often a form of horizontal violence, and if there is no doubt that this has happened, there is a call for a declaration. Like victims of other crimes, such a victim can then try to recover the damage from the offender or rely on the regular Damage Fund Violent Crimes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say the following, if we are still in criminal law. Mr Voordewind said: it is a good thing that the government apologizes and wants to give a broad package of recognition, but recognition is sometimes also given with criminal prosecution. I agree with him. However, I do believe that a new investigation into declarations in cases known to the De Winter Committee is not wise. During the investigation, the De Winter Committee, like the Samsom Committee at the time, had contact with the Public Prosecutor's Office on matters in which criminal law might still be involved. The D.A.'s office has examined these cases, but unfortunately, in all the cases before it, it has to observe either that they were already statute-barred or that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute them. I believe that we must accept this and that an investigation, as proposed, will not produce anything new for victims in this respect and, more importantly, may only lead to disappointments, which we must avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u75	Thank you. Did you answer all the questions, at least in the first term? I shall go first to Mrs Westerveld, then to Mr Hijink and then to Mr Jansen. Oh, Mr. Hijink has a point of order. I'm always curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yeah, I got a point of order. Before we all start to ask political questions, I would first like to see one factual thing clarified. The Minister always talked about €5,000, even when it came to regulations of the Deetman and Samsom Committee. It may be a bit of a strange request, but I would ask him to repeat exactly what he said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u77	Didn't you hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u78	Or I heard it right, and then it just doesn't add up. In these committees much higher amounts have been paid, also because the institutions where abuse has taken place were called upon. I think the Minister should tell the whole story. If there is a fee of €5,000, is that from the government? Or is it the case that the government has also helped to pay much higher amounts through the institutions involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u79	I thought it was a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u80	It doesn't look like it anymore, Mr. Chairman. I am aware of that, but I do think that the Minister should tell us exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u81	That's clear. I'll see if he remembers that phrase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u82	Oh, yeah. I wanted to say about the Samson Commission that categories ranged between €1,000 and €35,000, but that of course you also had the Statute; that was a separate arrangement. I take it out of my mind, so don't pin me completely on it, but I believe that the Deetman Committee had categories between €1,000 and €5,000, with a hardness clause that was limited to €20,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u83	It was just a point of order to repeat that phrase. I now turn to the interruptions by Mrs Westerveld, Mr Hijink, Mr Jansen, Mr Voordewind, Mr Peters and Mr Wörsdörfer. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yeah, actually, at this point, too. I have here the evaluation of the Samson Commission. A lot has been learned from that. It has been looked at in the elaboration of this compensation. There I read that the average amount paid per application allocated is €18,000, with a higher average for allocation on the basis of the Staff Regulations, i.e. more than €54,000. Then you're talking about very different amounts. Perhaps we can see in greater detail, later, in the second term or by letter, what has been agreed in different arrangements for victims. Because there seems to be a very big difference here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u85	If you want to know exactly, I'd like to get back to that in the second term. Again, it was another form of violence. We have looked at the points of reference in the field of physical violence. Samson was investigating sexual assault. I have had questions asked about the average amount paid under the Samson temporary scheme. I understand this has been a small €11,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yes, if a certain category is kept out of it, but then it becomes a bit of a well-niet story. The question I wanted to ask is: why did the Samson Committee opt for compensation and talk about a symbolic amount? I can't tell them apart very well, or at least I don't really understand where that difference comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u87	The Samson Committee considered whether, in order to prevent cases, people could receive compensation for damages under a scheme, thereby also giving up the rights they have to eventually get compensation for damages through the courts and a liability. That choice was made at the time. We have also learned from these choices, because it put a great deal of burden and pressure on victims and next of kin. To give a coloring: it was sometimes really experienced as a tribunal. Because it involved larger amounts, there was also a lot of demand in terms of evidence. People were really cut off about what exactly happened. You can say: if you manage to get through it, it had the advantage of getting a greater compensation for your damage. But it also caused many people a great deal of suffering and sorrow. We have learned from Samson and said that we do not want to go on that path again, so we do not opt for a compensation measure and for different categories, where you really have to weigh the suffering and ask for more evidence. We have therefore chosen one lump sum, a concession. So that does not deprive people of their rights to continue the legal process if they feel they still want to pursue a case, and I know that this is happening in a number of places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u88	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u89	I hear what the Minister says. Still, I don't think it's quite a good comparison. He's actually saying, we're making this a pretty easy arrangement right now, so people can prove that they're entitled to it in a pretty easy way, without having to lay down a lot of evidence, and that's why that amount is much lower. Of course, that doesn't have to be the case. You can also raise that amount a little bit and still make the scheme quite easy. That's not necessarily a choice between one or the other. I would like to point out to the Minister that the various evaluations also show that secondary victimisation, that someone is victimized for a second time by official bodies, also occurs when victims feel that they are being tipped off with tips. This is also apparent from several studies. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether he does not want to have a conversation with victims, with fellow-fate groups, to look at an arrangement which really meets their wishes and which does not give these people the feeling that they are victims for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u90	I understand that feeling very well. That has always been our struggle. What amount, what price do you put on the misery that people have been through? I sometimes think: there is no financial amount to be attached to that at all. But we also checked to see if we have any clues. If we look at the Deetman Committee, we had a hardness clause that went further, but also a number of categories that were significantly lower than €5,000. When we look at the Damage Fund Violent Crimes, we can ask ourselves which category best fits in with the form of violence we know here and the injury that it leaves behind. Then it's very much in category 3, which also has €5,000 on it. Could you have put a different amount of money on it? I think that we have tried to arrive at as fair a conclusion as possible for everyone with these points of reference. For some, it's higher than when you've worked with lower categories. That is why I say: I do not think we should reconsider it again now. The scheme has now been published. I also know that a lot of victims say: we also really like it if we can just apply now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u91	Evene on that last one: of course that doesn't make any difference at all. Surely the fact that the scheme has now been published can never be an excuse to accept this amount? Okay, let's get this over with. I have a lot of questions, Mr President, and I don't know exactly where to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u92	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u93	I think the Minister should be honest here. If he makes comparisons with the Samson Commission and with the Deetman Commission, he should not mention that amount of €5,000 and pretend that this group is aligned with that other group. That is absolutely not the case. Mrs Westerveld just said the same thing. At the Deetman Commission, the average amount paid was €18,000. So you can't say: €5,000, it's a different arrangement, it's a symbolic amount, it's a recognition. No, that was another scheme that was about compensation. It's all right, but the honest story is: this group just gets off very badly. €5,000 is particularly low. I do not want to hear the answer that we have heard a few times before: no amount of money can undo the suffering. No, of course not, but a figure says something about how serious you take the De Winter Committee's investigation and how serious the recognition of the victims of this violence is. If you look at the various other committees, then I just think that it is €5,000 short. I must honestly say that in my original proposal I wanted to go much further than that €10,000. I didn't think that would be feasible, and that's why I sat on that $10,000. And now I'm thinking, shit, I might have been way too low with that $10,000. Can the Minister explain why €5,000 is a reasonable amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u94	We have looked at what other arrangements have been. These arrangements are not always comparable, sometimes because they dealt with other forms of suffering, other forms of violence. Sometimes because there was a very conscious choice for an arrangement with bars. We also had good reasons to opt for one lump sum on the basis of all the opinions we have received. Then we wondered: if it has to be a fixed amount, where do we have any hold for the amount? Then I fall back on the Damage Fund Violent Crimes, that category 3, and on the highest category in Deetman. I agree with you. There was a hardness clause on top of that. But the Deetman committee had a classification.... I say it out of my mind; no, I take it up to be very secure.... that ranged from €1,000 to €5,000 for the heaviest category.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u95	I wonder what exactly that is based on, because I have an overview here with very different amounts. These range from €5,000 to €100,000. That's what the churches eventually paid for to victims. These amounts are quite different from the amounts mentioned by the Minister here today. I find it uncomfortable that this is happening in this debate. It is already quite uncomfortable to talk about amounts given the history and this subject. But I don't think this is fair. It is put down in this way as if it were a fair comparison with the other committees of inquiry that have been there. So I want a better answer to that. I also think that the Minister should realise that if we increased the amounts, a much larger group of victims would feel recognized in the suffering that has been done to them. This would also prevent these people from feeling that they need to go to court in order to obtain a higher remuneration. I would be very sorry if people were going to do that because they feel they should do it and because they are going to do it and I wonder how I say it nicely; Mr Peters was talking about a tip. They feel like they have got a tip for all the misery they have been going through. If you increase that amount, I am quite sure that it will land well with the victims concerned and that it will be possible for people to still have to go to court to obtain higher benefits. I believe that this is an objective that we must all pursue here. I would also like to stress that this really will not affect so many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u96	I would like to emphasise to Mr Hijink that we have really tried to do this as transparently and with integrity as possible. I understand very well that he says: I do not agree with that amount. Perhaps I can imagine that reaction even better from a lot of victims. But we really tried to do it with integrity. I just pointed out how we looked at whether we have any clues and anchor points that we can fall back on. Mr Hijink now mentions a lot of high amounts, but I do not recognize them. Perhaps they can be traced back to the first Deetman Committee, which dealt with sexual violence. I'm talking about the Second Deetman Committee. We have a Samson Commission, which was about sexual violence. But this was about physical violence. We must find a fair comparison in this too. The second Deetman committee is covered by the categories I have just mentioned. I think that with the amount we have proposed, we will strike a good balance between what you can do, which is a fair concession compared to other schemes, and how you can perhaps achieve the most important thing of all, a settlement where we do not ask so much of victims to discuss it afterwards. I'm referring to easy access.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u97	I agree with the Minister in this respect that I see the charm of an arrangement involving one sum for an entire group. This may prevent people from delivering files full of paperwork, having to experience everything again and so on. I get that. I totally disagree with the amount, but that may be clear. I asked a question about the women of The Good Shepherd. They feel particularly overwhelmed. There are about 170 women, if I understand correctly, who have sometimes been forced labouring in that monastery for years. They have not actually been part of the De Winter Committee in this way. They have suddenly been dragged in by this minister when it comes to compensation, compensation, of €5,000. They have not been included in the investigation that we have already referred to a few times. I'm talking about the 51% of the people who say, "Do one thing." This group hasn't even been involved. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to go back to those people himself at least once more and whether he would like to discuss with them what they think that they have been called that way for their years of forced labour, also being paid off by the other committee of inquiry by €5,000. That's very bad, especially with this group. I am not okay with the Minister taking these people into the slipstream of De Winter Commission, while it is a specific group that really requires specific treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u98	Qualifications as "buyed off" allow me to give Mr Hijink a moment. I have just indicated that what we are not doing here is compensation for damage or compensation. What we are trying to do here, we are doing for a very large group, men, women, boys and girls, who have had to do with forms of violence in youth care at the time they were in boarding school. In doing so, you can discuss the question of whose account that falls. In any case, we have said that the authorities have at least had a role to play in this and that supervision has failed. For all these people, we're trying to get a fair deal. I agree with you when you say that the Good Shepherd was only briefly mentioned in the De Winter Committee. It was discussed in that De Winter committee, but there was also the wish, also in terms of historiography, to do deeper and more research into it. That too is an element of recognition. I said that we should do that especially if that helps. But if you then see a harsh regime there, along with forms of forced labour, you must note that this can be qualified as a form of violence. And that's why I'd like it to be included in this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u99	But that is not true, because this group, these 170 women, has not been included in the conversations that have been held and have not been included in the survey that has been deported. They have not been able to talk about this arrangement either, but they have been side by side, so, hop, by bike. They feel hugely passed by. So this really can't go on like this. It's true that everything went wrong there, but the Voss and Houwerzijl committee, am I saying that right? It was researched and said: yes, there was violence, but there was also structural forced labour. They've just established that. Then you're talking about another category. I know it's gonna be complicated, but we can't just wipe it in one pile. I really think that the Minister should go round the table again with this group in order to achieve better agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u100	We really... I even held separate meetings with this group. I've had some of the forewives from this community at my table. We've talked to them about a lot of things. So it's not like we dragged them with our hairs; we really tried to do it in a fair and honest way. I hope that worked. I know from a number of victims that they are also happy with what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u101	All right, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. I think that, in the exchange of views, we believe that this can work very well and that Mr Hijink is of a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u103	Exactly, we've been able to see that, indeed. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u104	You know, Mr. President, I'll just be very honest with you: I'm embarrassed to hear this. I mean that sincerely. When I hear that the Minister is talking about amounts of money, we've looked at it from €1,000, €2,500, €3,500, I think: this has all happened since 1945 and it's still happening. And then the Minister comes with an amount of €5,000. He refers to other cases and similar amounts. In my first term, I called humiliation, neglect, emotional abuse, physical abuse and sexual assault. I haven't even mentioned forced labour. But look what's happened since 1945. Do you really not have the idea, I ask through the chairman, that those people who literally see €5,000 as a tip, as Mrs Westerveld just said? They're not gonna look at other committees, are they? They're not gonna compare to similar cases, are they? They look at their own situation. Children who have been abused for ten years and maybe even longer, who have experienced misery in every possible way, who still wake up at night, have nightmares, who still can't normally live their own lives as they want, who have actually gotten into this situation by looking away from us as a government, and then we say: €5,000, because that's so easy; one sum for everyone, 51% asks for it. Can you believe that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u105	It would be good and good if we could have a good, open and honest discussion on these matters. I've tried to tell you what dilemmas we've been dealing with. I have the impression that Mr Jansen is not telling the whole story here. Of course, if you look at the most extreme forms of violence, then €5,000 is indeed a low amount, even if you compare that with other regulations. But if you have to work with the weighing of forms of violence that have been there, is the duration, the nature, also in terms of violence between young people or was it more of a form of vertical violence? Then you come into a scenario where we have learned in the past that this also causes a lot of damage. That you're asking for a lot of evidence from victims, that you need to hear them, that you're asking them to indicate exactly the category. That also brings a great deal of suffering. So could we have chosen something else? Yes. Would that perhaps have been that we would have had a higher contribution to those who have been affected by extreme forms of violence? The answer is yes, but then there would have been those who would probably have received a lower contribution. Then we should have set up a whole process in which we had asked a lot of victims. Of these many experts and experts, who have become wise in recent years, said: do not start with this; opt for a system that is easily accessible. Then the amount is a bit more limited, a bit lower, but then you keep it simple for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u106	We just talked about other committees. At the Samson Commission, the amount was between 1,000 and 35,000, easily accessible. Then you could have kept it simple. Except you're talking about people who've had extremes to do with it. Some received up to €35,000. I agree with Mr Hijink. He said I might have been too low asking for $10,000. But, yeah, or maybe I won't get the rest. But $5,000 just doesn't feel right. It doesn't feel right for a lot of people who've been through this for years. It just doesn't feel right for me as a Member of Parliament either. If I agree to this, I'm really not worth a snipe. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but that's what it feels like to be honest. I would like to ask the Minister again: reconsider your position, because this is not the way we should deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u107	I cannot vouch for Mr Jansen's feelings. I believe that in this case the feelings of peers, of next of kin, of victims will be very different. I know about people who might hear a little less................................................................................................................................................................... And there are indeed people angry and dissatisfied. Mr Jansen referred to the Samson Committee. He used to work with categories. There were lower categories, below €5,000, and indeed higher. That also brought with it a lot. You asked a lot of victims in terms of evidence, evidence, hearings. That was a very heavy, incriminating journey through which victims had to go. It was also said: think carefully before you start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr Peters, then Mr Wörsdörfer and then Mrs Kuik. Then we wait until Mr Voordewind returns, because it was also his turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u109	Well, I'll get started, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u110	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u111	First of all, I must say that it is painful to talk about euros here all the time, as if that would alleviate suffering. I do have a question about it. It is a gesture, in which the Minister states that it is not offset by increases or assistance. I have indicated that there are also people who are in debt relief or something like that. They're gonna ask for this in a minute. Did they lose it again immediately? That would be my first question in this context. Secondly, I had asked a question about the direction of the payment of this amount. Would it be possible, for example, if you are on such a course, to say "give it to me in two years, then I can keep it"? Or: can I get it monthly? That's the question I asked. I had some more, but I'll take these first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u112	I just indicated where it doesn't count, with the supplements and with the welfare allowance. This is different in terms of debt restructuring and debt relief. Unfortunately, it is not possible to completely exempt anyone who has serious financial problems and who has therefore called for a form of debt restructuring or assistance. This should, for example, be reported to a director and he should see how he deals with it. But if you get an amount and you have huge debts, it can of course help to get rid of those debts and start clean slate sooner and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u113	I understand, but I still think it's incredibly painful if I get this, but I can't keep it, because I'm in debt relief. That is why the second half of my question is: do I have any direction when this is being paid out? If I'm on a three-year route with the municipality, can I say, give it to me in four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u114	I think that's really complicated, because then we're gonna work too much around it. I would like to look again at whether there is any specific problem here that we can do something about or in which we can do something, but on the other hand there are creditors. There are also other people in debt who get an amount that goes straight into the estate and is used to relieve those debts. I understand that this is painful, but at the same time, of course, it reduces the problem of those who are in it. That is why I think it will help, because €5,000 is, of course, a substantial amount in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u115	Finally, on this point, I have another question. I see this as a commitment that the Minister would like to see whether there is a specific problem and whether there is an opportunity to work around it. That would help. I understand that $5,000 helps if you're in debt, but that doesn't feel very good. I can tell you that. I've already written down that commitment. I have a second question about the monument. You are right to say that this monument is important and that money has been promised for it. You have now released €100,000. That's a nice and substantial amount, but if it beaches at €10,000 or €15,000, then surely we couldn't find anything on this at two ministries? There's a limit to everything. I understand you can't have a monument with golden cranes, but if a very large group of fellows says "we're going for this monument, we're making something of it," then it would be a shame if we said: that's nice, but we can't put those two benches there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u116	Let me say the following. If it gets stuck on an amount as Mr Peters just mentioned, then we will see how we can get out of it. At first it wasn't there, but we tried to make a move towards the initiators. They said: such a monument must cost about €50,000. It soon turned out to be double the cost. I think we should be clear, too. At some point, you have to do it with the amount you have. But when you say "it's such a small point," it doesn't wake me up. I also think it is important that it should be there, but it should not go over again. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u117	That second commitment is also in my pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u118	It is indeed a bit uncomfortable to talk about money, which is part of a whole package of recognition of suffering and, not to mention, preventing violence, which we are about to talk about. I have three brief questions about that. The first is as follows. The Minister has just explained that he has been in contact with peers to see how he could come to an arrangement. My question is: when the scheme was finished, has there been another test with all those fellow-countrymen who were spoken of at the time to see what they think of it now? Then there's my second question. I understand from the Minister that if victims receive compensation, compensation, they can make a request not to have an impact on the allowances. That is of course fine, but can I assume that we make this application as simple as possible? That we're not a complicated paper circus... Anyway, the Minister will understand the question. My final question is about the regulation. This arrangement lasts two years, but that period should not be too rigid. I also know that such an arrangement cannot be endlessly opened up and that it is very good that when people come forward with a request before the end of 2022, it is still being considered. But if it is the first week of January, at least I would like to get the feeling that it is being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u119	I'll walk them off. When the arrangement was finished, did we consult it widely? We didn't. But when we look at the reactions, they're reactions that come back in part here. Some say: we are satisfied, a nice arrangement, very happy that it is now starting. Others, for example, have a discussion about the amount of money. That is a sensitive subject, but I think that will always remain a point of discussion. Are we going to help when it comes to supplements and welfare? I'm gonna see how we can make that as simple as possible. I do not rule out anyone having to apply for it, because you have to flag it for the organisations that have to implement it. The low-threshold and simplicity of the scheme also fits something like this. Then there is the deadline for opening up. I understand that Mr Wörsdörfer says that you should not be too rigid. That if at some point there's another pick of victims, you say, "Yes, but now the window is closed." At the same time, a clear course of action has a function, because it provides clarity for everyone, not least for the victims. My experience is that victims sometimes stop doing their story again for a very long time or they have to sign up. Then a clear end date can help to give just that last push.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u120	I understand that very well. Can I assume that we will do everything we can to find any unseen small picks of victims to help them stick to that deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u121	What I would very much like to do is to publicise the scheme and to encourage people to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u122	Good. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just had to get out of the room. My question concerns something that the Minister has already addressed, the role of the Public Prosecutor and the investigations relating to criminal offences. The Minister says that we have inventoried this in all the conversations we have had. The D.A. can't actually prosecute because it's either statute of limitations or lacks evidence. That's clear. My request was to the future. We know that this arrangement is going to run for a while. The question then is: could it possibly be through the trusted person who is there, that all thresholds can be removed as much as possible, so that a declaration can be made? If there are criminal offences, it must ultimately be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u124	I fully agree with Mr Voordewind, also in terms of standards. You just have to show clearly: this is not acceptable, serious violence cannot, is even punishable. Now I suspect that this is more often horizontal violence nowadays, but also then it is important that, if you are confronted with it and you are calling the bell, for example with such a confidential person, if someone moves you there too. I would like to take up Mr Voordewind's suggestion that the AKJ should put it well on the map that we are encouraging people to press charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u125	Then Mrs. Chicken, finally. Didn't I skip anyone? Then it's okay. We also have the Secretary of State. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u126	However, I would like to ask a few questions about compensation, because I really want to understand it, and not just me, but also the fellow fates and victims involved. I think it would be wise to have another conversation with fellow-fatemen. They have been informed but the amount of the amount has not been definitively communicated to them. That's correct, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u127	That was communicated with everyone in the letter of 21 February 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u128	Yeah, but a letter isn't the same as a conversation. A letter is sent. That's not talking to each other. I think it would be wise if we were to talk to our fellow-countrymen and victims. Instead of a letter, a conversation. So that's what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u129	Over the past year, we have often spoken with fellow-fate organisations, with the considerations of how we have come to the €5,000 clear, as we have done in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u130	According to my information, it's not. As soon as we have the debate here, of course, we always get apps from peers. They say: 'We have only had a letter and then we have not spoken about it anymore.' My friendly request is whether that conversation can still take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u131	I am always willing to talk, but I also think that we should not give rise to the expectation that this will change. The scheme has now been published in the Official Journal. The compensation fund will start working on this scheme from 1 January. That's in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u132	So the answer is no. I'll write that down. My second question is: I still want to understand how the concession was made. In Deetman's scheme, the minimum amount is €5,000 based on sexually tinted comments or actions, rising to €7,500 when it comes to actions, rising to €10,000 to €25,000 when it comes to long-term actions. You can make a comparison with that if you like. At Samson's, the minimum amount was around the $11,000 the minister just mentioned here. I still don't understand how the $5,000 came about. You have asked for extensive legal advice on this and discussed it with experts. My friendly request is: can we get those considerations on paper, just to understand it? I think that'll help the victims, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u133	In my opinion, we have discussed everything in and out of this debate. I have just given the arguments that I have put forward. Mrs. Kuik cites the Samson Commission. I indicated what the categories were. I also have the impression that she's looking at Deetman I. There were two Deetman committees. One was investigating sexual assault. There's also been a committee investigating physical violence. I also mentioned the categories that inspired us to reach this amount. So I don't think a letter adds anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u134	But there's a formula under there somewhere. I'd like to see it and understand it. My question is, can we get it on paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u135	With all due respect, this is not going to add to what I have just said in the debate about the benchmarks we have used and the categories that were applicable to the various committees. I think Mrs. Chicken should do it with that. It can be read back in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u136	I'll take a second no. This is not really a fruitful debate. What hits me a little bit, is this. It is vulgar to talk about money, but this is rather disappointing when there are so long conversations with victims, who have to wait a long time, and then they are informed with a letter about the amount. In this way it is certain and ready, while there is still discussion about the amount of the money. It's a little "this is it and figure it out for the rest." Do you understand how that makes me unhappy? It is not a question of making me unhappy, but of making the victims whom I speak unhappy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u137	I recognize the image of victims who say: I am not satisfied with the amount. I do not know whether a lot of discussions are going to change that. In this debate, I outlined how we came to a decision and a financial arrangement at all, and then chose between one amount or several amounts. I have outlined how, when we said it would be a single amount, we have come to a reasonable conclusion of what you can do with such a concession, if you want to keep the burden of proof and simplicity intact. I have outlined the various moments in that process when we have tried to speak back or to gauge the opinions of fellow-fatemen. The point is that the scheme is now in place. In fact, the scheme has been published. We are really jumping to work on this arrangement. I am not going to convince the skeptics, but I think it is a good thing, and this debate also has a function that we are clear at some point about what it is. You may say that you do not agree, or that you think it is too little, but I say that this is it for now. Now it is up to your Chamber to give a ruling on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u138	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u139	I'm not going to argue whether it's useful to do one amount. I can understand that. I also understand that there is now a need to apply for benefits. No one's gonna fight that either. I just don't understand so well that if you go through a whole trial with each other, in this case with peers and victims to arrive at a level of compensation or compensation, or have all kinds of conversations in advance, but eventually informs and writes to people with a letter: this is it, it's in the State's news and good luck with it. I honestly don't understand that if recognition and, above all, listening are the highest goal and the most important thing you can do for victims. I just think that's a really missed opportunity. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u140	You made that clear. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u141	Yes, I have a question at this point. Of course, we should not spend the whole debate discussing the amount, but it is very important to talk about this properly. In the case of secondary victimisation, the feeling of victims being harmed for the second time, the amount of the amount naturally plays an important role. It would be different if the government put down a whole package to help people and this is part of it. Now victims have the idea that this is it and that they should do it with this. We are, of course, talking about people who, for years, sometimes decades, suffer from what was done to them in their youth, which they could not do about as a child, actually under the supervision of the government. That's the group we're talking about. Then I would like to ask the Minister: how are we going to make these people feel that they are being looked at, that it is not just a sum of money, that there is a package that gives them recognition, that aftercare is being provided and that they feel that they are being heard, also here by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u142	Victims, fellow-fatemen, are and are always heard by me, throughout the journey. Also, the image that Mrs. Kuiken sketched that I sent the letter and never cared about it again, is simply not true. I have just given the examples in the development of the scheme, and we have always tried to include the suggestions put forward by organisations. My point is that there will always be discussion about the amount of money, however regrettable. Mrs Westerveld says that she would have wanted this to be part of a broader package, but I have just tried to point out that this is part of a wider package. In it we work on "keep remembering," with a documentary, with a website, with a monument and in which we try to provide aftercare. For some people, money isn't even important, but care. That is what Mr Blokhuis is going to say about later. There is support for fellow-fate organisations, so that there is also something of an infrastructure with organisations or activities where victims can go. So this is a broad package, part of which is the financial regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u143	Of course, I have also read the letter which states what is being done, for example the documentary and the website. But on some points things are still difficult, for example with the monument. The Ministry does indeed contribute a part of it, and some of it does not. Several colleagues have asked whether or not this amount is due to surcharges. Then the Minister says that it has no impact on the assistance and not on the surcharges, but that it cannot be said whether this has an impact on any debts. I would just like to ask the Minister to clarify this very clearly. Help those people with that monument. Let's not be too hard on that. It's not about millions. It concerns a few tens of thousands of euros. The same applies to items such as surcharges. Now, please, give it to those victims clearly here, too, that this has no consequences. If we are just very clear and open in that, then of course that can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u144	Sure. And I want to give you that clarity. I think I gave that clarity too. I also think it is nice examples that show that we have taken into account precisely the needs of this target group. The clarity is: the financial scheme has no effect on your welfare allowance and has no effect on the supplements; point. I don't think it's gonna get any brighter than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mrs. Van Beuker-Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u146	I have a second point. The monument is also a good example of moving insight. The monument wasn't in our original package. Then there were initiators who called our doorbells. Then we said, if this is something you're missing, we'd be happy to think with it. In fact, when the bill came up, we also said: we just want that to happen. At some point you have to mention an amount that you all consider reasonable to do. If you say you want to do it for that, you have to do it for that. I think we can come from a conclusion which Mr Peters has just spoken about. At some point, however, you must also clarify the amount of money that the private organisation is available to experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u147	I notice that if you have finally opened your mouth as a victim after years of abuse and feel that you are being heard through fellow-fate organizations, it will probably be a bit raw if it is taken off in this way: we have communicated it, it was in the State's news. I think the piece of communication in that area could be a lot better. I would therefore like to take a step forward. Is the Minister prepared to table with the fellow-fate organisations at the beginning of next year, once the scheme has been put in place, to see how the scheme works? Is it as easy as he thinks it is? Does it also work in practice and how does the form work? I think we should take that step. A broad palette is indeed offered. We are talking for a very long time now about the amount. I think it is a good thing that you emphasise once again, also to the peers, that it is a bit of government recognition for what has gone wrong with youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u148	Absolutely. I'm definitely gonna do that. I think that's a good suggestion. I'm recording that, too, to see how we can make it as simple as possible for the victims. I also think that this is in line with the good contact we have with victim and fellow fate organisations. The image that we have only communicated with a letter at some point and a publication in the Official Journal is really too short. I was there personally, together with my colleague, then Minister of the United States of America, to give an explanation. We've had critical questions and we've all talked about that. So it's a combination of all these things and I keep talking to these organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u149	Nor do I doubt the good intentions of the cabinet. Nor do I doubt that such a meeting went that way. But when a statement is made that the amount is as indicated on that day, or at that meeting, it doesn't feel like you're still pulling together. I think we have brought that noise to the attention of the cabinet here in Chamber this afternoon. I am pleased that the Minister is committed to having another discussion with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u150	First we have to clean the chair and then I give the floor to the Secretary of State. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen said that we are having a tough debate today. I quoted Mrs. Chicken and Mrs. Westerveld. Yes, it is, because it's about terribly sad matter. Mr Jansen said that after everything that has happened, we must draw a sad conclusion from each other. I would like to make the same start as my colleague, Minister Dekker, by indicating how these children should have lived it. It's a traumatic experience when a child has to leave his parents. No matter how bad the conditions are at home, every child needs a familiar environment. It is heartbreaking and horrible when children are removed from that environment and at their new address, whether in a foster home, institution or home, no love, comfort or warmth. Those are the things that every child deserves and that you give every child. It is heartbreaking when they are faced with insecurity, abuse or abuse instead. The De Winter Committee's investigation has shown painfully that violence has occurred in the provision of youth aid, which took various forms: sexual, physical and psychological. When you read or hear the stories, the tears really jump into your eyes spontaneously. It's too much for words. I would therefore like to quote Mr Hijink, who says: 'It is a sad history'. No prettier than that. Mr. Chairman. I am committed to agreeing to that recognition and to apologizing. My predecessor Hugo de Jonge, who had this dossier under his responsibility until the end of September, has done so before when he presented the report in June 2019, together with Minister Dekker: they have explicitly apologized. These excuses were repeated by Mr Dekker in February and August this year, but I also want to apologize on behalf of the cabinet for the suffering suffered by victims and for the fact that the government did not do enough to protect them. It is all the more worrying that the people who are involved, the victims, cannot be physically present here today. Several spokesmen have rightly said so. How can we make things up? They've been through so much misery, seen so much history and a heavy report come out. And then there's a report coming up and you can't even be physically there. That won't be the ultimate ambition of each of the victims, but I'm sure this place would have been pretty well flooded if it had been. That makes it all the more disturbing, but hopefully the technology will allow us to connect remotely with the people involved. I would like to wish those people good luck, because this debate too will tear open wounds and bring with it very double feelings. Mr. Chairman. In the letters of the cabinet of 21 February and 27 October, we indicated how we would like to work together with the municipalities and the youth sector and in good consultation with stakeholders on the recommendations of the De Winter Committee. The main thing is to acknowledge the suffering caused to the victims, to help these people wherever they need to and to provide help and support. We also have an information point in place for this. In addition, as a cabinet, we take responsibility for preventing future violence in youth care. Our approach runs along four tracks. I call them here very briefly. The first track is the prevention of violence. This calls first of all for awareness in the sector that violence may occur. It calls for cultural change and lasting improvement of working methods. Secondly, structural improvements in youth care are needed to prevent future violence, or current violence. In this context, for example, we are going to amend the Youth Act, which I shall say a little bit more about. Thirdly, we need to tighten up supervision. Fourthly, we need to monitor whether the measures put in place actually lead to less violence in youth care. Monitoring is measuring, and measuring is knowing. We do that by counting and telling. Mr. Chairman. I want to go through six cubes in my answer. They're short blocks, Mr. Chairman, so that's very fast. I can talk very quickly, as you know. Firstly, helping victims in addition to what Mr Dekker said about this. The second block concerns the four lines I have just outlined, the awareness in the sector and the dialogue with parents. The third block concerns structural improvements in youth care. The fourth block concerns tightening supervision. The fifth block concerns monitoring and the sixth block deals with a few other questions. Mr. Chairman. The first block goes into helping victims. Of course, Mr Dekker has already said a great deal about this. In addition to that, I would like to mention a few more things. Mrs Van Beuker has drawn particular attention to this hotline: does not a hotline lead to a passive attitude? I think there's a need for that. I'm also in the process of setting up the contact point for victims. This is part of a central information and expertise point at the Trimbos Institute. For this purpose, a general questions chat function is set up, with a helpline for victims attached. We want to have that hotline in effect in March 2021. But Mrs Van Beuker is right when she says: is that it? Well, there's more coming. There's also more where victims can go. That lake is part of the Minister's response. The lake is also located in existing infrastructure that already exists next to that hotline. Victims can, for example, go to Victim Support Netherlands for a listening ear. Victim support The Netherlands also provides access to resources for victims. That care card that makes people understand where they can get help is complemented by Trimbos. We've got the peer contact. Mr Dekker said a few things about this. So what will be available in the future? We have, of course, the adults-ggz in the Netherlands, where people with mental problems can go. They often end up there via the GP's route. Let us express the hope and expectation that this route will also lead to the help they want and need for people. Mr. Chairman. That was my first substantive block. Then awareness for the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u152	Very briefly, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u153	It's more of a question of principle. I have just been thinking for a very long time about the Minister's story, about the comparisons he's made between the abuse or violence in the church and the violence we've seen in youth care over the past few decades. This is partly about compensation, of course, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he does not think that there is also a substantial difference when violence takes place under the responsibility of a government which is supposed to protect young people. Everything that happened in the church was terrible, but this violence took place under the responsibility of a government that was supposed to protect young people. I would have liked to have made that point here, because I think that is quite different, even when it comes to compensation. So you can't actually compare those two one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr Hijink's question is addressed to the Minister through me: shouldn't that have something to say for, for example, the scale of compensation, the monument and other matters? At the same time, I would also like to emphasise that whether it happens under the responsibility of the government, the church or any private institution, it is all terrible. Of course, the Lower House may address the cabinet if it is done under the responsibility of the Cabinet, and call us to account and say: "This is what you provide as compensation. You have a financial arrangement in the making. What other measures do you take to ensure that youth assistance is better in the future?" That's exactly the port of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u155	I totally understand that. The Secretary of State is right; this should have been on the Minister's plate. But I'm making this point anyway, because what happened in the Roman Catholic Church was what the Deetman Committee paid the church itself in the end. At the Samson Committee, youth care finally contributed to this. The cabinet chooses not to do so now, when it comes to violence in youth care. I would like to point out here that it is a political choice for the government not to do so, even though it can make the choice to do so, to ask the youth services themselves to contribute to the violence, and to make another comparison when it comes to the level of that amount, partly because it concerns the protection of vulnerable young people under the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u156	That's actually the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u157	I don't think the latter is a question. This is where I think Mr Hijink marks his position of principle on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the block of awareness and dialogue with parents and children. In fact, all the spokesmen have asked questions about that. Mr Wörsdörfer of the VVD had questions about the change of culture and its working methods. Mr Peters asked for victims to be used in improvement projects. Mrs Westerveld mentioned the use of confidential persons. I would like to comment briefly on all of them. Moreover, confidential persons were also mentioned by Mrs Van Beuker and Mr Jansen. I'm going to go into that briefly. Preventing violence in youth care, in addition to structural improvements, which we can also enforce through legislation, calls for greater awareness in the sector. It is super important that the quarter there is also good that the helm really has to be turned. Our perception is that this is also well taken up in the sector. Firstly, I would like to mention that the sector itself took the initiative to organise a very large-scale conference. This took place in November under the name A year after De Winter Commission - Prevention of violence in youth care. That was widely visited. I also spoke to Mr De Winter. He was also a participant in that conference. He says: there are really things to improve, but I see at such a conference that is very broad in the sector that has to change direction. That awareness process is in full swing. Such a conference raises questions such as "What is security for clients, professionals and drivers?', "How do you engage with clients, professionals and drivers about this?" and "How do you, as a professional, ensure a safe living and treatment environment in youth care?'. That type of question has been fully addressed there. This has obviously been such a success that the industry organisations have said that they want to repeat this next year: it must not have been a one-off thing, but we want to repeat it every year to underline its importance and to emphasise that we are really intrinsically motivated to organise a cultural change. Mr. Chairman. As part of this cultural change, Mr Peters asked about the involvement of former victims. In answer to that question, I say the following. Victims are involved in various ways in improvement projects in youth care. The industry organisations will start organising various round tables together with us, with all the actors involved, people present and welcome. Then you're talking about victims, the industries, the youth workers and the government. They talk to each other at such a round table about improvement projects. That's not a one-time thing either. We want to do that twice a year. It is therefore a structural dialogue. Mr. Chairman. In addition, other things are happening. I can give a whole list of things, if I may, I would like the Chamber to report in writing, but for the sake of clarity, I would like to say that it is a good thing in the sector, but also in the government as a client, that it has to change its mind. In this context, it is also important to emphasise the position of the trusted person. That has everything to do with culture. Can children who are in the youth service be confident that they can tell someone their story if they are abused, if they are not seen or otherwise? Mr Jansen asked questions about the confidant. How is it accessible? That happens on different routes. The trusted person should actually be so settled that a child himself already knows that he can do so. That's not the culture yet. I agree with Mr Jansen. If children are in a youth assistance process, municipalities should actively draw attention to the possibility of support by a trusted person. The Youth Care Advisory and Complaints Office (AKJ) provides and carries out the trust work for all those involved in youth care. There also leaflet material is made available. We are actively trying to see that this offer exists. For young people who are in an institution, it is a question of real contact with the trusted person. The bridge is best laid by the visit of that confidant. The trusted people make group visits and tell them what they're doing. They draw children's attention to the fact that they can avail themselves of their assistance. Children in a closed setting, as we have written to the Chamber, see a trusted person at least once a week. Children in an open setting see that confidant at least once every two weeks. In 2019 and 2020, the cabinet provided additional resources for this, so that the trusted person can really be physically present. We want to continue this next year. So we are also making these funds available for next year. I would like to say to Mr Jansen, before he puts forward a motion on it, that I would like to talk to the AKJ to see how we can bring that offer of trusted people to the fore. So, to put it bluntly, it needs to be properly placed in the window: children need to know that they are entitled to it, and so should their parents. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld... she's coming forward now. Yeah, I'm gonna answer one of her questions, but maybe she's gonna want to ask it now. Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kuik and Mr Wörsdörfer have asked: what are you doing to increase knowledge among traders? This also has to do with cultural change. Professionals work with vulnerable young people. They play a crucial role. We certainly have an eye for that. We're asking a lot of these professionals. It's hard work, and so they need maximum support in their profession. This must, of course, be done primarily by their employer. VWS takes a facilitating and stimulating role for those people. In the Care for Youth programme, investing in craftsmanship is a separate focus. VWS and JenV invest in close cooperation with each other with regard to professionals in the assistance. We do this together with healthcare providers and professional associations. Together we invest in knowledge development, skills and matters such as professional attitude and professional pride. Then it is also about practical tools that we want to give to the aid workers. We want good examples to be shared of being able to fill in your profession in a good way. For example, we also want instrumental matters, such as professional registration, to be properly completed. Professional registration helps to keep professionals involved in developments in the field of work and to keep them up to date on the latest state of affairs. Mr. Chairman. This was the issue of awareness and cultural change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u158	And what block was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u159	I've got number two on here, Mr. Chairman. So I'm already on three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u160	Okay. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u161	You can write in a letter to the Chamber that children see a trusted person once a week in a closed youth support institution, but that doesn't mean that children actually see a trusted person once a week; at least I don't hear those sounds. I get quite a lot of messages from young people, via email or through social media, and I often notice that I tell them that they are entitled to a trusted person. It is, of course, too crazy for words that they do not get that from the institution themselves, or wherever they are. So I would like to inform the Secretary of State that it is really not the culture yet that young people get this and that they know this. Actually, I have another question. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that the organisation of conferences, conferences and round tables is of course beautiful, but does not change culture immediately. When the groups in the youth care sector are still large, this still, of course, ensures, for example, detention. I'd like to ask him how he's gonna make sure it's really changed in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u162	That is an excellent bridge to my next topic, because I deal with the group size, forced confinement and separations. The first point is an important signal from Mrs Westerverld. I just said I want to talk to the AKJ. Then I would like to raise this point. The cabinet has invested in providing extra trust, which has to present itself to groups of young people, including in closed youth care. If that is less grounded than we want, and if Mrs Westerveld has any signs of it, then that is, as far as I am concerned, an item on the agenda for my discussion with the AKJ. She herself has made a nice bridge to the point of structural improvement of youth care. That includes the group size. Questions have been asked about this by almost all the groups. What the cabinet is going to do to improve youth care, Mr Hijink, who is not here at the moment, has raised the issue. At the risk of doing things again, we have just had a legislative consultation Youth, and we had an intrusive debate on Monday on youth aid in Zeeland.................................................................................................................................................. We are working on the recommendations of the De Winter Committee, together with the youth sector and municipalities. In fact, we were already doing a lot of things. But in these recommendations we see a catalyst and an additional encouragement to tackle things more rapidly. Mr. Chairman. If we look at where we are now, apart from what we have started, we can also see that there are positive figures to report; I have also shared this with the Chamber before. It is a tanker whose course we must change, but things seem to be moving in the right direction. Fewer young people are being taken care of in closed youth care. It was 1,400 young people in the first half of this year. This is a decrease of 27% compared to 2019. Suppliers and professionals adapt their methods and try to reduce separations. I'll get right on that. Suppliers rebuild their real estate so that they can offer help more small-scale. We'll facilitate them in that, too. We have made the EUR 33.5 million available for this purpose. There is more room for family-oriented forms of youth support, such as family homes. I would like to mention one last point in this list. I do not do that to say 'look at us well', but to point out that things are really happening in line with what the Chamber wants and with the recommendations of the De Winter Committee, which unfortunately are too late for a lot of people, people who are victims of a system that is not working properly. That last point is the transition to adulthood. We deal with that much more seriously. As far as foster care is concerned, Minister De Jonge has increased the age to 21 years. In 2017, 3% of the foster children made use of this. In 2019 that was 10%. So you're really seeing a rise. Mr. Chairman. Several political groups are asking: can the cabinet not take the direction more explicitly to tackle the system? We do that in a few ways. First of all, we are actively encouraging this scaling down with, for example, the 33,5 million boost. Two, we're working on fewer removals. I'll tell you more about that in a minute. Thirdly, we are in the process of making legislative changes much broader but also very fundamental. It will really be a repetition if I say again what these legislative changes are about, but one important aspect of the legislative proposal Improving the availability of care for young people is that we also want to strengthen the internal supervision of youth workers. The governance, with an expensive word for governance, of youth workers needs to be better in order. Because it has also been so horrendous because that internal supervision of youth workers was not the way we all wanted it to be. This should be substantially improved with the new legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kuik have asked questions about reducing the size of the group. I have briefly indicated that this is the aim of all the efforts. That's also being picked up by the sector. We have made this additional boost of 33,5 million available in 2020, and we can see that a large number of providers are taking this seriously. In addition, this year the NJi, together with the partners concerned, has developed a broadly supported definition of small scale, including a field standard for the size of a living group. It's up to the sector itself. One makes a standard for oneself for what is the optimal scale for a living group. A knowledge file on small-scale facilities has also been developed. When talking about cultural change, work is being done from all sides to better organise youth assistance, including by making it a small-scale starting point. As far as I am concerned, that is an answer to a question of that nature by Mr Peters. There should be no more room for large residential institutions. If you consistently argue this line, then it would also go towards end practice for the very big giants, unless they organize themselves differently. That is also in line with the movement we are making in the new bill. Regions make a vision and see how supply and demand can meet. If it is right, they want to do business with organisations that are well embedded in the region rather than with very large organisations. Mr. Chairman. A fundamental point is how you deal with the closed shelter. That is something that has been spoken about. Mr Voordewind has asked: should we not go to zero? He called the beautiful trits: separations zero, forced reception zero, zero suicide, the zero movement towards suicides. It's all movements that I'm very much in agreement with. That move to zero has taken me out of the heart. I say this also in response to questions from other spokesmen. Mr Wörsdörfer has also stressed this point. I want to prevent children from being placed out of the house. This should be as limited as possible. Leading principle is: no, unless. Together with the sector, we are working hard to reduce the number of removals. You can now also see innovative projects in the field of youth assistance. I call KINGS of Accare: Child In Healthy System. I call Family Total of Horizon. In addition, parents and children are taken together at the location. That leads to a very nice score, if I may call the word "score" in this respect. The result is that these families will get back on the road together and that the children will be able to return home in the foreseeable future. This does not apply to every family, but the percentages are really very encouraging. The sector itself will investigate the number of removals. The sector itself is going to present what works and what we can learn from it. So the sector itself wants to see why there are so many removals and how we can prevent them. We are sorry, Mrs Westerveld, about the results of this study, and we are going to hold a round table. That is what we are doing with the whole sector, so I am talking about the Empire and the field parties, to see if this should lead to changes in our policy. That's what we're gonna talk about in 2021. An important question from Mrs Westerveld is: why does the bill say "legal status of young people in closed youth institutions" and does it not say anything about separation? Perhaps I could make a misunderstanding in this debate. The word "separate" is not in the bill, but there is a link to the terminology already contained in the law in force mandatory ggz. That's not the word "separate" but "include." In legal jargon, that's the same thing. It is intended that the bill will no longer allow for inclusion. In the consultation round, however, a different direction was thought by a number of speakers. They have said: shouldn't there be an area where young people can be isolated on their own request? I can hardly imagine that Mrs Westerveld or other Members of Parliament would object. But that's a whole different thought. It's really rethinking when young people ask themselves if they can take a break. It seems to me that it can be a healthy culture. We take this seriously when we process the consultation response that was put forward in the consultation round. I'm not saying it's gonna get a place in the bill anyway, but we're looking at it seriously. I expect we can present the bill to the Council of State on 1 March. Mr. Chairman. Then surveillance. Then I have to monitor the block and the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u163	Mr Jansen, on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u164	Very briefly. I also asked a question about your inserted mentor, JIM. Are you getting to that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u165	I had it in the other block, but I'd love to do it now. Then my folder is thinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u166	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u167	Mr Jansen has read the documents correctly, because it is indeed not in our response to the De Winter Committee. Important steps are certainly being taken on this issue. I discussed this at the end of November in an administrative consultation with the whole sector and municipalities. Strengthening your own direction and working with the informal network are important principles in the Youth Act. These are included in the Youth Aid Guidelines. This culture, which Mr Jansen is pursuing here, is an urgent item on the agenda. There are many forms of cooperation in youth aid with the informal network and support figures. There's more and more working on it. Think of a family group plan, informal mentors, buddies projects, support families, citizen guardians and so on. I will take several steps with the sector to further develop this. There will soon be an expert meeting with the industry organisation for specialist assistance. It's about involving the informal network. That is a very important element. A plan is being drawn up by professional associations to incorporate continuing vocational training. We are looking with the VNG and the municipalities to see how this aspect can get a place in the contract, so that the informal mentor, the informal commitment, can also get a place in the contract with youth workers. There are already municipalities that do so in their contracts. That should actually be a broad culture, I say about Mr Jansen's head to all the municipalities. We also share practical experiences and good examples. That always works well, because there are municipalities that work with it and they like to share these examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u168	At this point, Mrs Westerveld? Because it was an answer to Mr Jansen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u169	I understand the Secretary of State wants to move on to another block, but I still have a question about the separation. The criteria for eligibility for the financial compensation state that detention is a form of abuse. That is what my first question was about. We know that young people are still being locked up regularly, or are in the room for a while. But we also know that young people often end up in solitary confinement. If that's under assault, how am I supposed to read it? Does this mean that people who are locked up can claim the €5,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u170	If I'm going to make some very bold statements about that, I'm going to yell at myself, because this is what Mrs Westerveld is asking me about. The intention is that in future, on the basis of the bill referred to by Mrs Westerveld, there should be no basis for inclusion, which is actually separation. This doesn't mean that a youth worker can't say to a younger person "you go to your room," but that's different. You are also in a closed setting, you are not allowed to leave the property. But if what Mrs Westerveld is saying is true, that means that any separation that is now being discussed, any incarceration now, would provide grounds for compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u171	But that bill is still coming to the Chamber. So we're not gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u172	Yes, but Mrs Westerveld is asking about the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u173	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u174	Shall we agree, Mr President, that I will, if necessary, give a specific answer to this question in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u175	Yes. Only on this question; the legislative proposal is still being dealt with in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u176	This question is indeed about the regulation, because it is very clear in that regulation that detention is subject to abuse. This is when we know that even now young people are being regularly locked up. In my first term, I gave the example of a young person tied up. And you hear cases like this all the time. In particular, I would like to point out that cases which, according to the De Winter Committee, are subject to abuse are still taking place. In my opinion, we must be very serious about the fact that young people in closed youth care institutions are still being abused according to the definition of the De Winter Committee. Let us not forget that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u177	I do not know whether Mrs Westerveld's conclusion is entirely correct, but I am happy to deal with that in the second term. Because if you did, you wouldn't even have to settle that bill that I was just talking about, because it would be de facto ground for indemnification and thus implicitly declaring that it is totally reprehensible. The fact is that, in the current practice of youth aid, youth workers sometimes have their hands in their hair, for example, with a young person who is very aggressive, who, so to speak, runs with a knife, that they say: we have to lock them up and lock the door, because the situation is absolutely not safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u178	But you'll come back to this. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u179	I was hoping Mrs Westerveld would organize a little bridge to my next point, but that is not the case. I come now to the block about the monitoring and then the other block. I can be brief about the monitoring. Several groups have asked about the prevalence study. Why hasn't it started yet? When will the Lower House be informed? The De Winter Committee recommends that a prevalence study be carried out. That's what we're gonna do. That investigation starts in early 2021. It has had a run-up, because we also wanted to coordinate with the sector what we want to see. We want to collect both quantitative and qualitative information with this research. The study starts in 2021 and the first results are therefore expected in the course of 2021. Who is in charge of all the monitoring and who is monitoring whether we are complying with the agreements made? That's part of this, even if it's not all. The prevalence study is about forms of violence that occur, abuses, but the reports in the context of Care for Youth, the progress reports, and in the context of Violence belongs nowhere, are the regular moments when we inform the Chamber about how the flag hangs. Then you can talk to the Minister for Legal Protection and to me about our system of responsibility, or things are going as we agreed. Mr Hijink has asked the specific question why we are not doing research in the disabled sector. The study of the De Winter Committee did indeed look at the aspect of people with intellectual disabilities. People with a slightly intellectual disability have been included as target groups. The safety research I conduct in 2021 also involves institutions for people with a slightly intellectual disability. In the follow-up study, the prevalence study, people with a slightly intellectual disability are also included in the research assignment. In this way, we also gain insight into what the experience of young people is and what they need to feel safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u180	Is this block finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u181	Yeah, this is the block of monitoring. Then I just have two other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u182	Okay. A very short question, Mr. Hijink, because you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u183	Yeah, because I don't think we understand each other very well. I am not talking about the group of young people with a slightly intellectual disability. I am talking about the whole disability sector. I asked Mr De Winter himself: would it not be wise to do so in other sectors as well? He said, "Don't do that in care for the elderly, because that's not a good idea, but disability care, for example, would be a sector where you could do something very well. We all know the examples of Brandon, Jolanda Venema, a long time ago, already in the eighties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u184	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u185	Of course, in the past, there have been some pretty bad things in disability care. We think it would be a good idea to conduct a similar study in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u186	Then I understand the question better. It is about the full width of the disabled sector. If Mr Hijink agrees, I would like to pass on this question to Minister Van Ark, who deals with disability policy. That's the maximum I can do right now. I'll pass on the question to the Minister who's talking about it. Therefore, if Mr Hijink expects an answer from Minister Van Ark, I would ask her to formulate that answer, with the undertaking that I will forward the question to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u187	Yes, and then Mr Hijink gets a response to that? Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u188	Yeah, I'm gonna think, because I also had a motion ready to organize this today. Maybe I'll just submit it. Then we can see what it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u189	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mr Hijink already knows that I am going to ask him to hold that motion pending the reply of the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u191	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u192	Mr President, I have two other questions. One belongs to Mrs Westerveld. It does not directly touch the theme we are talking about today, but is about people she has talked about who have lost a child in the provision of youth aid; the relatives, say, who have a child as a result of suicide due to misdiagnosis, incorrect assistance and so on. What are the prospects, what are the possibilities for the people who are in such a horrible situation? If a child dies in a youth aid institution or if that youth assistance is provided, it can also be out-of-arms. Of course, that is an undescribable drama for the parents, but also for the aid workers in question, I think. The sadness cannot of course be overcome by a financial concession, which I do not think is Mrs Westerveld's primary point, but it does play a part. Therefore, I would like to point out to her that since 1 January 2019 there has been a title under the Compensation for Feeling Damage Act to obtain compensation for emotional damage caused by another person's death. That is the title that allows people to claim compensation, which is, of course, horrible in this case, because the greatest damage has been done. The condition for the allowance is that another person is liable. So you must also state that you think the care is liable. This may be the case with a youth aid institution if the death was caused by culpable behaviour at the youth aid institution. The last question I have here is from Mr Voordewind. Why was the investigation difficult at the time of the inspection, as the committee states in its report? The question is logical, but I think it is a misunderstanding. First of all, the inspection considered the committee's investigation to be extremely important and wanted to cooperate fully. The committee was able to have access to all the files that the committee considered relevant for the investigation, including those that should have been destroyed. Gradually, the investigation was found to have destroyed more files under the Archive Act 1995 and the Basic Selection Document IGZ than was initially thought. Perhaps this gave the impression that there were more files available for inspection than were eventually stored in the archive. The inspection regrets this, precisely because it has made maximum efforts to cooperate. That is a technical answer, but that is the way forward, in response to Mr Voordewind's question. I'm done with my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u193	Thank you. A brief question from Mrs Westerveld and Mr Wörsdörfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u194	My question is about that last point, about what parents can do when their child dies in a youth care institution. Of course, that's super sad. A major problem is that the inspection does very often carry out research afterwards. If your parents ask you to sue someone or an institution, it is not only very hard towards the employees who work somewhere and who really do their best, they can make mistakes, but they do their best, but then you also burden the parents by asking them: show them. I've been going over several inspection reports from the past few years. They'll always be on the site when such a terrible incident has occurred. The inspection is quite often tough. My question to the Secretary of State is: if the inspection has already shown that mistakes have been made, why ask the parents, who are already on a terrible path, to go to court to show once again that mistakes have been made? Because that has already been demonstrated at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u195	I understand the question very well. I recently spoke to a mother whose son had committed suicide. It was in the care department, but it had become desperate because he had been given a new aid worker for the umpteenth time. Mrs Westerveld knows that example. Those are horrible situations. Do you have to do it to those parents that if they want to be satisfied by compensation, they also have to sue for it? That's the rule of law. I would like to put a question back to Mrs Westerveld, because I am struggling with this. How else are you supposed to handle it? Would a critical inspection report, which by the way is not public... Somehow the parents should have access to it. No, the parents are known in that. They'll have access to it. But would that be an automatic ground to grant a fixed amount? That's the question again. I do not think that a ruler should ask a Member of Parliament a question, but that would be the question. Should we go to a system in which money is automatically allocated in such a situation if there is a critical inspection report or another critical report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u196	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u197	Mr President, I understand that you want to speed things up, but this is, of course, an important subject, also because this is a kind of tragic event. I would be very much in favour of parents not having to go to court first and put all kinds of evidence on the table, also because it could damage the whole process and the aid workers. This concerns young people who are often supervised in an institution and who ultimately fall under the responsibility of the government. If you ask the inspection to do extensive research and she does... I think those reports, although anonymized, will all be on the site. In any case, I have read several of them in recent years and every time I am afraid of what the inspection says. Very often she says it has to do with carelessness, with too few staff or with mistakes made in the preliminary journey. I find it incredibly hard to read that back every time, because it's always about a young life that someone has been taken away and which might have been prevented. That is why I am so keen on this and I think that if the inspection indicates that mistakes have been made, we should not burden parents so heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u198	We are here in common agreement and I hear very well what Mrs Westerveld is saying. I'm gonna tie it in my head and I want to think about that question. I think she is asking legitimate questions, but I do not want to promise that we are going to organise things differently. I want to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u199	I had the feeling that in the answer a block has disappeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u200	And what was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u201	Surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u202	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u203	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u204	Yeah, in a hurry... I'm so rushed!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u205	Well, in a hurry... You took all the time you needed, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u206	I spoke very quickly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u207	Then I'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u208	Before you know it, I'm gonna get blamed for giving everybody all the space I can. We thought you combined it with monitors or something. But it may be that... Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u209	It's a good thing there's some woke-up MPs out there. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. It's a dissonant if I go into that now, but I'd be happy to answer the questions. Tightening supervision is actually part of the improvement of the system. Mr Wörsdörfer has asked questions about this and also Mrs Kuik and others. A painful conclusion of the De Winter Committee's report is that supervision has been seriously inadequate. We're gonna have to deal with that. I fully agree with the committee's conclusion that there should be a proactive, strong and independent monitoring of youth aid. In order to facilitate the inspection, which falls under my responsibility, as well as the inspection that falls under Justice and Security, we need to work as principals. From VWS we facilitate the IGJ in its role as supervisor. We give the inspections more possibilities through the notification obligation under the Accession Health Care Providers Act which starts with it also to apply to youth help workers. If a new provider reports to the market, he must report to the IGJ, because then the IGJ knows that it is under its supervisory role, instead of having the IGJ snooping around in the Netherlands with a flashlight where the new providers are. With the IGJ, we agreed to carry out an analysis of notifications, signals and reports that she herself issued in 2019 and 2020 to see how they were operated on. This can be used to further improve supervision. This monitoring analysis is expected in the middle of next year. To give the Chamber an insight into the functioning of the IGJ on the specific field of youth assistance: the IGJ makes about 380 visits in this domain every year. In those visits, the IGJ always talks freely with children. That is a very important point of departure which I believe all Members of the European Parliament are calling for. Children should be able to speak freely with the inspection, without others being present. There are exceptions where that is not possible, but that is the starting point. Unfortunately, during the lockdown in this corona time this could not always happen physically. Then it's done through video calls. Then the IGJ kids are gonna use video bells to find out what's going on. Mr Wörsdörfer asks what perspective we offer to improve supervision. In response, I can say that the IGJ appeals to all the parties involved in youth protection to their role and monitors whether breakthroughs have been made as a result of the increasingly improving methods. If young people do not receive appropriate assistance, if professionals lack the expertise to deal with the complexity of the problem of young people, if professionals do not work development-oriented and if freedom-limiting measures are frequently applied, the IGJ specifically monitors this. The youth workers know that, too. So they also know that if they allow them to celebrate in these areas, the IGJ has them in their sights before, because the IGJ sends in particular. The IGJ also closely monitors reports of situations in which young people are unsafe. It's a matter of casuism. There have been reports from institutions that young people are not in a safe situation. The IGJ uses those signals, along with information from other sources, such as those of trusted persons, previous monitoring visits and data sources that are otherwise. Mr. Chairman. Has anything happened in the run-up to the publication of the De Winter Committee's report? The report confirmed for the inspection the need for developments in monitoring that had already been initiated. She's already started an improvement process. The inspection was also advised by young people on the basis of the report. That's the plus from the results of the report. The improvement steps I mentioned have already been taken or we are setting them. The plus added to this as a result of the report is that the IGJ has also involved the Council of Children in completing the supervisory task, specifically in the youth assistance sector. She also develops opportunities to make it easy for young people to talk to them via social media or an app. That is my answer to the supervisory questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u210	Mr Wörsdörfer has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u211	I think I need to explain my question. I understand that, taking into account the reports from 2019 and 2020, the inspection will see how it can continue and improve. The point, of course, is that supervision has failed, so is this a convenient route? How do we prevent it from leading to blind spots when the inspection starts looking at what she did herself? Otherwise we wouldn't have to talk about this at all. Because it would have been okay by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u212	That's one line. If that were the case, we could say that this is the butcher who is going to approve his own meat, if I understand Mr Wörsdörfer's question correctly. But that line is important. We are committed to that and we are on top of this from our ministries. The second line, which is also a result of the De Winter Committee, is that young people are involved in the design of the inspection. An experienced young person has also been involved in inspection investigations of the inspection. The IGJ visits the institutions physically. The young people actively advise. It's not just something of the adult world. To advise young people on how best to carry out the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u213	A brief question, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u214	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if it is possible to go a step further and to include experience experts in those visits. As an example: in higher education you have visits from a visitation panel to courses. That's what it's called. There's always a student or a fresh graduate in that. Do you think this could be done at the inspection? Maybe it's a rather bold question, but perhaps the Secretary of State would like to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u215	I want to look into it anyway. My first study is on whether this is appropriate. We might be able to use the pause to visualize that. I shall come back to that in the second term. Depending on what I hear, I'll go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u216	I hear the Secretary of State telling me about the surveillance. I think that the De Winter Committee has made some more recommendations on monitoring. I wonder if at this point that is not easy to do by involving young people more, by taking them along and asking them about their experiences. Does the Secretary of State agree that the inspection has done the right thing so far? Or should there be more to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u217	If we look at the history of the De Winter Committee, the question is to answer it, because mistakes have been made. By the way, you have to ask yourself if that's the fault of Superintendent IGJ, who was still called otherwise back then. I think we need to be real and face the wingspan or tension force of the IGJ. That is not a very large organisation where thousands of people are walking around who constantly come to inspect all youth workers. The IGJ is shaping that as I just outlined. We think we can do better than that. I just said something about that. Plus, it is certain that, as a result of the De Winter report, young people are more clearly represented. If the Chamber says it all has to be much more massive, then we have to have that conversation separately. Moreover, the question is whether this should be limited to youth aid or whether it should also be extended to other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u218	That seems to me a nice opening to talk about, because the whole report breathes that supervision really needs to be even better and even firmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u219	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks. I see a lot of motions. I hear it's not so bad. I'd start with that. Mrs Westerveld, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u220	Mr. Chairman. I have two short questions. The first is a question that I also got from a number of victims. Can they also get help if they are not satisfied with the financial regulation and want to start a business? The second question is where is a place where young people who are now in institutions can complain. Where can they do that right? Then I have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, following an investigation by De Winter Commission, a temporary scheme of financial compensation for victims of violence in youth care was set up at €5,000 per victim;]] [[noting that this amount is seen as a symbolic amount and not as compensation;]] [[Considering that De Winter Committee concludes that the children who stayed in youth care institutions or foster homes from 1945 to 2019 are not adequately protected from physical, psychological and sexual violence and that the Cabinet has apologized and thus acknowledged guilt for the role of the government;]] [[whereas the Samson Commission, where the same group was examined, but in the field of sexual abuse, did mention compensation under the financial regulation;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[invites the Government to consult with fellow lottery organisations and to examine whether the compensation offered does justice to the damage actually suffered and to increase the amount if not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are various arrangements for victims and survivors, such as the financial arrangements for victims of violence and sexual abuse in youth care;]] [[noting that there is a Damage Fund Violent Crimes for Victims and Survivors of Violent Crime;]] [[noting that such arrangements are not open to survivors of suicide in youth care institutions, even if the IGJ inspection finds that errors have been made by the institution;]] [[noting that recognition of suffering and injury is an important objective of non-life insurance funds and that this plays an important role in their processing by victims and survivors;]] [[calls on the Government to open up to young people's families who have committed suicide in a youth care institution after forced entry into closed youth care or any other compensation scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-209]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u221	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have made it clear that the compensation scheme for the SP is really inadequate. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission has concluded Research on Violence in Youth Services that since 1945 children have been victims of physical and mental violence in youth care and that the government has not done enough to stop violence in youth care;]] [[noting that victims are dissatisfied with the financial compensation of €5,000 proposed;]] [[considers that compensation should be due to the suffering suffered by victims;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the financial compensation to €10,000 and to introduce an individual scheme for specific situations where there is a need for higher compensation due to mental or physical injury,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that victims of monastery order the Good Shepherd have been exposed for years to violence and forced labour while the government should have supervised it but did not do so;]] [[Whereas the compensation to victims of violence as proposed in youth care does not reflect the specific nature of forced labour such as that which took place in the monastery order of the Good Shepherd;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the proposed compensation scheme for victims of the Good Shepherd in order to do justice to all the suffering suffered by these victims without causing any delay in the payment of the amount currently proposed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Kuik and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-212]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u223	Finally, the final motion, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the members of De Winter Commission have encountered many problems in their research into physical and mental violence in youth care which can also be seen in other sectors;]] [[considers that there have been abuses in disability care;]] [[calls on the Government, following the De Winter Committee's investigation, to launch an investigation into physical and mental violence in disability care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-214]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u224	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the rulers for their answers to my questions. I had asked a question to the Minister about the confidant, to see if we could remove or lower the threshold for declaration. The Minister then made a commitment to enter into talks with the AKJ. I had a motion on that, but the Minister has promised, so it is a waste of paper to file that motion. I understand the Minister. He is going to see what is possible in cooperation with the trusted person in the youth care sector to increase the willingness to report. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a final motion. It is indeed about the ambition to continue the movement to zero in terms of closed youth care, the Youth Care Plus. The Secretary of State has said a few things about this. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that one of the recommended measures by De Winter Commission is that "placement in closed youth care should be avoided as far as possible";]] [[noting that several plans and pilot projects have been deployed to prevent placement in closed youth care;]] [[noting that the investigation shows that the group leaders and young people experience a closed setting as unsafe, there is a great deal of boredom and lack of privacy, and this increases the risk of aggression and violence;]] [[Whereas there is still a lack of a targeted plan to reduce the number of placements in closed youth care to zero;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the sector to come forward with proposals to further accelerate this movement towards zero placements in closed youth care, and to inform the Chamber in mid 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Peters, Mr Wörsdörfer and Mr Van Beuker-Huijbregts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-215]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u226	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u227	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u228	Mr. Chairman. I said in advance that I thought this was a tough debate, but I also have a bit of a heavy heart about the aftertaste of this debate. I can't quite put my finger on what it's in. Is that the tone, or is it because we're having the discussion about fees? I haven't quite figured that out yet, but we haven't finished on this subject yet. The suffering is too great and we have not made enough progress on what needs to be done structuralally in order to combat violence in the youth care sector in any form whatsoever. Mr. Chairman. I've co-signed a number of motions. Those motions were about compensation for damages, but also about being able to claim injury, for example if your child is committed to suicide in youth care because of proven errors and injustice. There will also be a number of motions, including Mr Peters. I have one motion I would like to make, because I am absolutely convinced that at the moment when we reach the taboo of violence and sexual abuse, we can make a very big blow to make people more resilient. That's also to show you: you're not alone. One in five women and one in sixteen men are victims of sexual violence. This applies to society as a whole, and in youth care these figures are only many times higher. That's why I still have this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that violence in youth care is still a problem;]] [[Whereas violence in the youth of (vulnerable) children can have long-term and very serious effects and can cause great suffering to people later in their lives;]] [[calls on the government to investigate at what times and places, such as at UWV and the company doctor, a doctor can explicitly inform about a possible history of sexual, physical or psychological violence, so that persons can be properly referred and supported,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-216]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u229	Secretary of State Blokhuis has said something about this, but I want us to really get caught up in it because it is not yet self-evident, not in the youth care services, not in the UWV and not in the company doctor. This is how I try to give that a little support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u230	I now give the floor to Mr Wörsdörfer on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had this debate, as I said at the beginning, of course for the victims. It is important to stress once again that there is a broad package that we want to recognise the suffering and, more importantly, to prevent this kind of misery from happening again in the future. We support that. In order to prevent violence, I'd like to file a motion on group sizes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that reducing group sizes according to the De Winter Committee is a crucial condition for reducing violence in youth care institutions;]] [[noting that there are already good examples of smaller group sizes in several places, but this is not yet a practice throughout the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas reducing group sizes may also require other skills of healthcare providers;]] [[believes that group sizes should be further reduced throughout the Netherlands, including in order to combat violence;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities and providers, to clarify whether and, if so, what further measures are needed to further reduce group sizes, paying particular attention to the skills of healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-217]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u232	Then I would like to make one more comment. As far as I am concerned, it is very important that we continue to involve our fellow-countrymen, especially since the implementation of some of these recommendations will take a lot of time. I have just heard about this from both government officials. I urge them to continue to do so, because I think that can lead to understanding. I conclude with a question I had asked, because it brings everything together nicely. Let us ensure that we bring together all these lines of action in the Action Programme for the care of young people under the title 'prevention of violence in youth care' as a result of the De Winter report, so that we are well informed and outsiders are, of course, informed of other people than here in the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u233	Thank you, Mr. Wörsdörfer. Mr. Wörsdörfer, you must surrender the motion. That's what needs to happen, isn't it? I now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer in the first term and for the commitment. That saves me a motion, which gives me some time for other things. I just hope that those of us who have taken the trouble to watch and listen with them feel that they are actually being heard and actually being taken seriously. I sometimes doubt that, especially given the messages I get in my inbox. I'm sorry to hear that. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current financial arrangements make the same amount available to each victim;]] [[Whereas it is possible to raise a financial regulation to €35,000, as was the case with Samson Commission, without the need for legal proof;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of adapting the financial regulation in accordance with the temporary scheme for victims of sexual abuse in residential institutions and foster homes, with €5,000 being the basis for any payment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-218]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions to file right now. The points in the report and the study of the De Winter Committee will also continue to be taken into account in the coming period when we talk about youth protection and legislative changes. Of course, it must be absolutely clear that abuses in youth care must stop now. We don't need any legal changes for that. I think we all agree on that, too. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister and their official support for answering today's questions and also for the sounds they have made. I have also noticed that they have a feeling about what these victims have been through. Only the piece of communication might be able to do a little better. I ask, like Mr Wörsdörfer, that we please talk to the fellow-lovers; we must continue to talk to them. I also think that it is very important to start working on the communication about aftercare. 36% didn't find it yet. It's fine to have a website. It's fine that you can do it through the GPs. But I think that we should focus on that and also give information about the scheme. We could really use the teammates contacts to do that. I hope that the people who wanted to be present have had the opportunity to follow this debate. I wish them incredibly much strength with everything they've been through. I think it is important that we keep talking and not close our eyes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u236	Thank you, Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started by expressing the hope that people who are looking at home now feel seen, heard and recognized by us, as well as by the cabinet and by youth care. In any case, we are convinced that the focus and perseverance in combating violence, denial and abuse in youth care are deep in our minds and our feelings. We won't let that go. We want that never to happen again and we want your story to be told, to remain told and never to be forgotten. We have talked a lot today about recognition and excuse, and preventing repetition by improving quality, by moving towards zero residential, zero home placement, zero separation and, of course, zero suicide. We have also talked about talking structuralally with fellow fates and about more physical places to grieve. However, I still have the feeling that it was mainly about the amount of the money, and I regret that. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the past, but also today, a number of peers feel denied and unseen;]] [[Whereas scientific knowledge is now essential in order to provide a place for past experience;]] [[calls on the government to engage in structural dialogue with peers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Peters, Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-219]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u238	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that children are best placed to grow up close to home and "as at home as possible";]] [[noting that the phasing-out of residential institutions can only take shape when there is sufficient construction of, for example, specialised family homes;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the UNG, to promote the direction of this movement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Peters, Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u239	Then I thank the rulers for the answer, and I really hope that we will continue this movement, along with the fellow fates. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u240	Thank you, Mr. Peters. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. A total of 11 motions have been tabled. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Five minutes? I think that's good. Then I'll suspend for five minutes. Yes, they're short motions, except for Mrs Westerveld's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u241	I'll give the Minister for Medical Care the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u242	Thank you. I don't know if that's a promotion, but... you said for medical care. But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u243	Oh! For legal protection!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of motions and there was one more question on the screen. Mrs Westerveld's question is about help. We have very good legal aid in the Netherlands. It is, of course, also open to victims; it is also available to them. Then there's the motions. The motion by Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kikken to item No. 209, who asks to enter into consultation, I advise against. That's not just, or not at all, out of unwillingness. We're really about to start this. So, apart from the many conversations that have taken place, it is no longer appropriate to have a conversation. The motion by Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kikken to item No. 210, I'm not sure. This has to do with the fact that the Damage Fund sees Violent Crimes primarily on the victims of crime and that the Donner Commission is taking a long way to see what kind of support you can offer victims. This is really getting ahead of it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink's motion and Mr Van Nispen's motion for a resolution 211, I advise. I have the impression he filed it the other way around. This is the motion on the Good Shepherd. I do not recommend it with reference to the debate. And what's in the request can't be either. If you did that, that would be decisively delayed. That's what I think he's trying to prevent. The motion by Mr Hijink c.s. in piece No. 212 with reference to the debate. The same applies to Mr Jansen's motion on item No. 218. The judgment on Mr Peters and others' motion for a resolution in piece No. 219 I can leave to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u245	A short question, Mr. Hijink, because I think there's been enough change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u246	I understand. If the Minister does not agree with the substance of the matter, then so far it is. But delay is something he would organise himself if he did carry out the motion. Nothing stands in the way of turning people out of the first part and then possibly more later. I don't think this is a fair argument. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u247	Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u248	Mr. Chairman. I ask for a substantive response to the motion, not for the fucking argument 'we have agreed on €5,000 and I do not want any delay'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u249	It's clear. I see the minister's thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u250	This annoys me, Mr. Chairman. It's an important subject. We're taking this all very seriously. And the minister takes it off a little bit. I'm really not comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u251	I am not going to take it off, but Mr Hijink is asking in his motion for a resolution I have taken it up to reconsider the regulation. I have already indicated that I do not see any reason to do so. Then he says: you have to reconsider it without that leading to any delay in the payout. The scheme will open in two weeks. You cannot and cannot rethink and maintain the same pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u252	The scheme will open in two weeks. That was also the Minister's argument in my motion. I'm sorry about that. There is nothing we can do about the fact that the debate has only just been planned. The victims aren't, and the minister isn't, of course. But this is not a substantive argument at all. It is better to have a good arrangement that goes a little later than, with the argument 'at least we can get to work quickly', a scheme that many of the victims have difficulty with and in which many of the victims feel unfamiliar. I would ask the Minister to comment on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u253	We've really adjusted and weighed, in all the dilemmas. We have also looked at the contribution of peers at the front: do they want one category or more categories? We do not need to repeat the whole debate, but we have also taken into account concerns and concerns in the design of the scheme. The only thing I want to give your Chamber is that De Winter's report is now a year and a half old. We are also really reminded by a lot of victims who say: make pace. So yes, of course you weigh the input in terms of content, but now that it is there, I really wouldn't want to drag it any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u254	Finally and very briefly, Mrs Westerveld. There's been enough exchange on these kinds of questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u255	But doubling the amount, as proposed by Mr Hijink in his motion, does not necessarily have to last for months. I think that could be done with a simple adjustment. Then about my second motion. In it we ask for something to be done for next of kin. I'm not saying it has to be this way. We are asking for a form of compensation scheme to be opened up to survivors. I would also like to ask the Minister, when he says that these damages are not in order, what is a substantive argument for not wanting or being able to do anything for these relatives? Please, let's look at the contents. Let's see what it takes and then make sure something happens. I'd like to give that encouragement to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u256	You're gonna be older than a kid who sits in an institution and robs himself of life. That's terrible. I can see you've been dragging that with you for a long time. At the same time, the philosophy of the Damage Fund is Violent Crimes that you compensate victims of a crime. I don't know if it's reasonable for anyone who's been through something awfully miserable to take immediate action as a government with a compensation measure...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u257	No, Mrs Westerveld, I'm sorry. The motion will be put to the vote and then it will be up to the Chamber to support it or not. Each motion has two or three questions. You have most of the questions of all and you've been given all the space. At some point, all arguments were exchanged. You want to fix something? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u258	I just want to make a quick correction. It's not necessarily about compensation, it's about recognition. That is also clear on the website of the Damage Fund Violent Crimes: it is about recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u259	Then you've made that clear. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u260	In our motion, we are quite clearly not asking for any delay. The €5,000 with which the minister comes, he can simply activate; start with it. It's the base for us. With this motion, we want to see whether people are prepared to bear more burden of proof if necessary...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u261	It's the motion in part No. 218.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u262	... which entitles them to a higher remuneration. People who accept and accept the €5,000 can therefore make a trade-off. Maybe you could give the motion in that light to judge Chamber after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u263	Delay was a point in Mr Hijink's motion, which explicitly asked for it. Mr Jansen does not do that. But we have just discussed this in detail. There are disadvantages to an arrangement with different categories, so you're going to ask a lot of victims in terms of evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u264	Thank you. I think you've assessed the motions that were on your property. We wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned and then the Secretary of State can judge the other motions. I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld asked me in the first term: is it not an idea to have an experienced expert go along with visits to youth institutions? We have given it some thought, and we think that it does have added value. I'd like to talk to the IGJ about it. That is a promise. Mrs Westerveld asked in her second term: where can young people go if they wish to lodge a complaint? It's documented how to follow the royal route. In the first place through a conversation with the relevant staff member at the institution. If that doesn't lead to the result that the child wants, then it has to go to the supervisor. Then there is the complaints committee that has been set up to do so. The fourth step in that escalation model.................................................................................................................. Moreover, it is also conceivable that a child discusses his complaint with the confidant. Well, then you're assuming the child found the confidant. That's what we talked about in the first place. Mr. Chairman. Then my response to a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u266	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u267	I'll start with the motion in part No. 214. When this motion was announced, I said that I should discuss it with the other portfolio holder, Mrs Van Ark, who deals with disability policy. We have not received the same type of signals from the disability sector from previous research, but I would like to examine the motion further with us at the Ministry. I suggest the petitioner hold it. We will give a written response as soon as possible so that the motion can still be put to the vote. But this really can't be before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u268	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u269	Then the motion to part No. 215.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u270	Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u271	Then I'll have to hold the motion officially.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u272	At the request of Mr Hijink, I propose his motion (31015, No. 214), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 214/1999. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u273	Then the motion to part No. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That motion supports what I intend to do, but I would like to make a comment on the operative part. This is about a discussion with the sector, but I am sure that Mr Voordewind and the other authors will not mind if I include the municipalities. In that light, I give the motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 216 of the members of the Kuiken and Westerveld. It's complicated for me. Mrs Kuik raised it and I very much agree with her point: the taboo must be removed. In the medical world, too, the question must be asked more easily. In my prevention portfolio, where we are talking about very different issues, I also come across questions that the medical sector should ask people, for example, about certain lifestyles. This is not comparable, but it is about cultural change. I find the motion complex, because it involves other actors that I have nothing to say about. For example, the UWV is something from the Ministry of Social Affairs. I would like to follow the same route as in the motion for a resolution on item No. 214 by Mr Hijink. If Mrs Kuik wants to give me a moment, I will give it a written response. If she doesn't want to give me that time, then I really want to dissuade the motion, because I really think it's super complex. To organize that in the Netherlands, I think we are moving too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u274	Well, the taboo collection of sexual abuse or a history of violence is also complex. That is why we must turn the whole of society upside down in order to remove that taboo. I'm quite prepared to hold the motion until there's a good and proper letter. I am also prepared to explain the motion further orally if it helps to share my thoughts on it. We have shared them as Chambers, but also with victims, experience experts and experts. This is really very important. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u275	At the request of Mrs Kuik, I propose her motion (31015, No. 216). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u276	(NL) Mr President, then the motion for a resolution on item No. Mr Wörsdörfer and Mrs Westerveld. I'll give the motion judgment Chamber; it's policy support. Then I come to the motion on part No. 220. It calls on the government, in consultation with the VNG, to promote a move towards the phasing-out of residential institutions. I see this as supporting what we are doing, as I say to Mr Peters and the other proposers. It seems logical to me to discuss this with the VNG. Only, I think you have that conversation with the G42, the collective of municipalities that have responsibility for the organisation of youth assistance in their region. If the motion can be read like that, I'd like to give it a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u277	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the spokesmen, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State of VWS. Of course, I would also like to thank all the messengers and the stenography service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-7.u278	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow at the end of the afternoon, I think, or at the beginning of the afternoon.
