ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	At present, the first term of the government's term of office on the Navy note is at issue. I'm glad you're all back after lunch. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Recitation may go a long way, but thanks for the trust. Today, as many of the speakers have, of course, recalled, we are talking about an unusual Navy note in unusual and sometimes surreal times. I would also like to say on behalf of the cabinet once again to the spokesmen that the cabinet and I personally appreciate the very open way in which we have dealt with the issues before us over the past year, sometimes with differences of opinion, and what they mean for an aid package, yet another adjustment or yet another supplementary budget that has to be changed. This shows that we are all aware of the scale of this crisis and what it requires, including in making short-term adjustments. I would like to say a few more introductory things and then I come to five different blocks. Maybe I should start with what Mr Alkaya and others have said. This evening, of course, we are talking about the Year's Note and therefore inevitably about finances and the economy, but the consequences of this crisis are primarily for those who have lost a loved one, who have ended up in the hospital themselves or who have otherwise faced the misery from the perspective of public health. Think of delayed cancer treatments, think of people who have gotten into more trouble because they didn't dare to go to the doctor and all kinds of other effects. As far as finance and the economy are concerned, it is clear that the impact on the economy is exceptionally high. We are expected to see a contraction of more than 4% of the bpp, where we were still counting on modest growth for the outbreak a year ago. All this is not as dramatic as the sausage case scenario of spring, but it is a huge blow with great consequences for our population, for the self-employed and for our businesses. I believe that the support and recovery packages launched by the cabinet, which we have managed to balance even further on parts, including with the help of the Chamber, have helped to mitigate the blows. Moreover, we have spent more on social security and care and there has been much less tax collection. Yet that blow in society is extremely severe. This also applies to public finances, also because they are much harder hit than the aid packages alone. These costs are unprecedented, but they were and are, as far as I am concerned, really necessary to preserve as many jobs as possible and enable companies to adapt. With that, these packages are really an investment in the future and also in everyone who is struggling in this crisis. Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Bruins said it as well: at least the glass is a little bit fuller than we thought at Prince's Day, because we live in such a time. It goes up and down hugely; the image goes up and down and will be negative again because of what we have ahead of us in the next few weeks. Public finances have developed more positively than was expected on Princess Day. The deficit is likely to be a full percentage point lower than was thought at the time. That doesn't mean we're on the old normal, far from it. The Autumn note still shows an exceptionally high deficit of 6.2%. This means that this year's debt will increase by EUR 54 billion. That's about as much as the Empire spends on education and defence together. Mr. Chairman. I've often been asked if we can afford this. The spokesmen will have gotten the same question. I have always said 'yes' to that, because I am really convinced that this one-off money, no matter how large the amount, is a good investment and that we can carry it. We owe this to the buffer we have built in recent years. We owe this to the foundations of our economy and we owe it to all the people in the Netherlands who are hard at work every day. At the same time, that money will have to be repaid once. Mr Stoffer and others referred to this. Obviously, you can't spend money you're spending now on anything else. During the corona crisis, we built up over €3,000 in additional debt per Dutchman. And yet, I say it again, and I keep repeating it, thanks to the aid packages massive redundancies and preventing bankruptcies. That means that I really think that with this recipe we will end up with less financial and economic damage than we would have had had if we hadn't chosen it. (NL) Mr President, first of all. I agree with what Mr Sneller has said. If you look at the numbers in the Autumn note, you can see that you stay on or around 60%; that's interesting. Contrary to what is sometimes thought, you do not go over that dramatically in the scenario that is now on the table. This does not guarantee the future either. But it is carefully good news, although of course we move very far away from the 45%, 46% or 47% we thought we would get out of earlier. Mr. Chairman. We are in the middle of the storm and it continues to hold something unsatisfactory to pick up the net and see where we stand at such a moment in time, today. And yet it is a good thing that we are having this debate. All kinds of things are going to happen, including with regard to public finances and the economy. So it's really an intermediate position. Mr. Chairman. I would then like to deal with the questions in a few blocks. In my introduction, I deliberately said a few things about the economy and public finances. So I will not go into that further, but I will, of course, deal with the questions. That's block one. Then block two, corona, three, the expenses, four, the revenue, and five, other. If you can agree to that, I'm going to fly it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	With all kinds of pleasure. My proposal is that you indicate when a block ends, because then we will do the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I am going to start with the questions that have been asked about the economy and public finances. Mr Snels actually asked a complicated question about the budgetary rules on green investment. I agree with him that the rules are sometimes complex. I believe that the next cabinet can potentially take advantage of the recommendations made by the Study Group on Budgets in this regard to make the rules clearer and simpler on points. I think he hinted at that, too. If I am positive, then I say that the possibility that the study group has has has something to do with the enormous traction that this dossier has received over the past few years. Four or five years ago we really didn't talk about green investment in this way. So this also seems to me to be something to take back to the formation. My text still states that I can say to Mr Snels with a wink that he can take part in the decision when he arrives, but I shall leave it to him to do so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked whether the SGP would allow me to believe that strict budgetary rules are necessary, so that the objective of those rules is not to put pressure on sound and sustainable public finances. Of course, I very much agree with that main objective of the SGP. The goal is, of course, ultimately, when I completely peel it off, as much well-being as possible for all our residents. For this, a good, thriving economy is extremely important, including in the long term, and sustainable public finances, which are well-organised, are also very important. So I totally agree with that. I think so, and I said this in my introduction, 'We can actually afford the damage we are doing right now'. Mr Van Dijck had been inspired by the money we spend abroad. This is a bit of a debate that he and I have had on a number of occasions, and his group chairman and the Prime Minister have also had on occasion. We really believe that it is of great value to the Netherlands that we are so connected to the rest of Europe and also to the rest of the world. At European level, we have therefore agreed to the recovery instrument. And the resources that have been used to this end are for the benefit of reforms and investment. We haven't quite reached the end of the song yet, but that formula is conceptually "I think" really is a sensible recipe to follow. Then Mr Van Dijck asked: what about borrowing on the capital market and the Commission? Well, the whole thing is that, in addition to subsidies, the recovery tool also provides loans. Member States can decide for themselves whether they want to use these loans from the recovery instrument. It is a bit like the discussion we had about the package that I myself was involved in in May and June. I also said that we would not want to make use of some of these arrangements anyway, because the lending threshold there is simply higher than we pay ourselves if I do it through the agency. Therefore, for the Netherlands, but also for a country such as Sweden or Germany, it is not an attractive route, financially. This is, of course, different for some other countries. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries then asked about the uncertainty about the deficit and the effects of new measures. The deficit is, in fact, unprecedentedly high at 6.2% in the Autumn note. That's one way. At the same time, we must add to that the measures recently taken and the new uncertainty. The other side is, see also the recent publication of De Nederlandsche Bank, that we also managed to recover some of that growth in the period shortly afterwards. Mrs De Vries knows that this is not the same as we have at the same time, because -10% and then from 100 to 90 and then 10% still does not bring you to 100, but I myself am optimistic about the catching-up capacity of our economy. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins and Mr Snels asked about the reflections of the planning agency, De Nederlandsche Bank en Financiën about the long-term anchors. I think that we again referred to the opinion of the Study Group on Budget Space. See, that advice is in the core to take the MLT path as anchor for the short term. That is to say, not to spend more than is already foreseen, unless there is a higher burden on it; and that, the other way around, can reduce the burden, but it must be covered by lower expenditure. I do think that, in order to arrive at a truly substantiated choice for a long-term anchor for fiscal policy, you would have to answer a number of questions, and that is quite difficult in this uncertainty. I've thought before: maybe you should do some kind of midterm measurement in the next reign. I think it might be possible to do so a little sooner, because it might be possible to get into a kind of stable situation with vaccination, but I can't say for sure either. That has something unsatisfactory, but I do agree with the study group that it would also be unwise to simply anchor some sort of anchor, when you don't know exactly what movie you're in. So I recognize the slight feeling of impatience and I also recognize that different parties have some different views about it, but this is, I think, the way it should be. Mr. Chairman. That was what I had to say in the first block, which is about the economy and public finances, but I will, of course, come back to all kinds of specific schemes and components of expenditure and revenue in the following blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	Now or never, Mr. Bruins. Don't be shy. We don't know you like that. Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	I'm used to the other chairman telling me if you can come forward in this corona time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	Well, not with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	I'm so happy. Then I feel completely free to move again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the question on the long-term anchor, the Minister refers to the Study Group on Budget Space. But Mr Snels and I spoke specifically about the situation quite apart from the corona crisis, which we see happening over the next ten or twenty years, that the discount rate is getting smaller and ultimately falling below productivity growth. So the shelf life balance is actually indefinable. I think that a few smart minds really need to get to grips with that, regardless of the crisis or the crisis, so that we know at all what debt actually means in these bizarre times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	I very much agree with Mr Bruins. I won't deny that I sometimes, sometimes on a Saturday night, wonder what this actually means. How can it be? What are you supposed to do with that? Suppose it stays that way for a long time, what does that mean for what we do in the country? Before you let yourself be carried away too much on a sort of tour of "the trees grow into heaven," which we know they won't, because that money has to be paid back eventually, a piece appears in The Economist about what happens if inflation does increase. Mr Bruins may have read that too. I think it was an article from this week or last week. The central point was that there is still less chance that this will not happen than that it will, and that there is also a significant chance that it will. Then the foundation of a lot of things that we do in the Netherlands, in Europe and beyond, becomes dramatically weaker at once. The fact that we all now think that it is likely to remain so is therefore no guarantee that it will continue to be so. This also requires caution and caution. I can make a commitment to Mr Bruins immediately about those good-looking heads, because they are working on them. But it remains a subject that is surrounded by great uncertainty. Because there are all kinds of different views in the world, there will soon always be good-looking minds who have proved to be right. But I find it hard to tell which good-looking heads they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	Then the economists would ride the astrologers out anyway. I understand it's very complicated. There are indeed several schools. Either inflation goes up and we're screwed, or it doesn't go up and we're screwed. Then we don't know what kind of world we actually live in anymore. I think it would be a good idea to examine these various scenarios and be ready to have an anchor for politics, on which we should then steer if the classic shelf life balance were no longer to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	Absolutely. I would not have dared to compare economists with astrologers, but I do agree with Mr Bruins that sometimes it is a pity that they can no longer look like astronomers, where you think you can calculate it in sum. Of course, it's not like that in the economy. With that it is also a combination of a science and an art, an art and a science. Here's what I'm gonna do. I very much agree with Mr Bruins. By the way, we are already working on it. Let me leave this with the Ministry and the Planning Office to think about it towards the next formation, because I think that question is one pontifical from day forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	At the beginning of his first block, the Minister addressed my question about public debt and so on. In itself, we agree on the images he sketched, but my specific question was to outline medium-term scenarios. Those may be a little less good-looking, but they're just solid economists. 'Cause what if that government debt is going to rise to over 60%? So how do we deal with that? Every time I go to a debate, I walk past such a big record with everything in the budget SZW and VWS. Every time I think: that's not going well; we won't last ten years. That is why I would like to see this solidity and these finances worked out in scenarios. Let's say the scenario is very black. So how are we gonna deal with that later? Then you can send something on it now, instead of thinking in five years' time: it happens to us again. If we are to have a new crisis, we are once again committed to providing the Netherlands with a growth budget. That's all I care about. So it's not about now, it's about the next crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think I have a shared care and a reassurance on offer. The shared concern is that if you look at the foundations that lie under the hood in that budget, and you abstract from finances, you will find that a lot of things are going very well in the Netherlands and that there is a lot of money available for a lot of different things, but that there are two budget lines that make up a very large part of the rich budget and that, moreover, one part, namely VWS, is growing very hard, much harder than many other budget items. In doing so, I do not detract from the importance of the subject of public health. We all notice that every day. I also do not detract from the great importance of all the things we do in social security, whether it is about benefits or child benefits. That's all very important. However, it is true that people in other departments, other ministers in other branches of sport, are also looking at what it means in the long term for, for example, education or for the police or for defence or what other subject you have. So that's a point of interest. The same applies to the relatively high costs that we have in the Netherlands in order to be able to pay for all this. In this respect, it is therefore a shared concern. What I would like to talk about somewhat reassuringly is the public finances that appear to be developing on the basis of the documents currently contained in public finances. Again, it could be even more negative over the past few months. I also really share the view that public finances must be in order, also in order to cope with a next crisis. But I didn't just say to Mr Sneller that it's interesting that you stay on the right side of the 60% with these numbers. If you look at all those foundations that are so solid in the Netherlands, it is not that if you go from 59.9% to 60.0%, the world will perish. That is, of course, an anchor we have chosen. Having an anchor has great added value anyway, but it is not a kind of cliff edge. Many of our friends, including in Europe, would have fallen from that cliff a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	Nice answers, but I conclude that the answer to my question is whether there are any scenarios that are blacker than that 60%, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	No, of course the Ministry is looking at all kinds of scenarios. Of course, at the Ministry of Finance, but also at the Ministry of VWS, attention is paid to this whole care puzzle. Then I will speak on behalf of the three colleagues in the cabinet who are responsible for this, but of course this is a big good in the Netherlands: everyone has access to care, regardless of their wallet. You also ensure the organizational capacity, as these ministers and secretaries of state always call it: how do you ensure in an ageing population that you can deliver it at all, in a practical sense? But the question is also: how do you keep it affordable? Because if you were to go through all those lines, you'd be spending an even bigger part of your wallet on healthcare expenses in 20, 30 years. So you have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u16	That's good for me. Just drink your coffee to.... that's also important. But my question is: can these thoughts in the ministry also be shared with us as a parliament? That is actually very specific my question. We also want to be part of this, so that we can prepare ourselves spiritually for any future scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u17	Of course, quite a lot of things have been shared about that, also by the leaders of VWS. I really should take a look at what's left of new business. The planning agency always has an important role to play in this. Mr Stoffer knows that I cannot or do not want to give the planning office any service assignments, so perhaps I can take that question back. I don't even know if I have anything so big and compelling on offer in the next few weeks, but I can imagine that this too is a relevant subject towards formation and otherwise at least afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u18	This sounds like some kind of cautious commitment. If I can take it that way, I can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u19	You've got it in the pocket. Then Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u20	I want to go another way. I would almost say: I am of the 60% generation, from when it became a sacred figure in terms of the budget deficit and the situation both in terms of interest and the total. The experiences since then are different. So I would also like to see, when the scenarios are examined, that it is also considered what is now the value of that 60%. By the way, I do not want to take away any of these scenarios. As far as I am concerned, there is as little loan as possible and we can pay it all directly. But the Minister is also right to say that there are different scenarios in terms of inflation that all lead to a different outcome for the sustainability of finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u21	Absolutely. In an attempt to limit myself a little bit, of course I was not completely complete, also in the direction of the previous two speakers with their interruption. I have often discussed with the Chamber that, of course, we have gotten into a totally different boatload of interest and what it means, for me as Minister of Finance but also for the trade ministers, to get a big extra interest rate straight away next year. Of course that was completely different at the time of Ruding, Kok and actually Salmon. Slowly but surely you can see that down vultures. The final sentence on this, Mr President. When I joined the First Chamber ten years ago, we had interest payments of around 6.6 billion. I remember looking at that as a financial spokesman. And look at this! This will continue to apply as debt increases. That is, of course, the great paradox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u22	It is true that the 60% originally arose from the idea of the debt that the interest rate places on the budget, if you have to reserve a lot of money in advance for interest every year. This is not the case, and we are really talking about future scenarios in which we look again at the effects of the different expectations of inflation that will help to determine what the level will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u23	That's true. Only then I am always inclined to hang on the other side of the rope. I agree with everything Mr Van Otterloo says, but it is exactly as he says in those last sentences: no one knows for sure how this will develop, so it is also wise not to run the significant risk of giving the next generation a very ugly thing. Of course, it is not the only piece I have seen about it, but that article in The Economist shows again that the 'what if' question you always have to ask in life, with all kinds of files, is also a relevant question here. What if we decided to borrow a lot more, and then our interest rates just don't add up? Well, then you're pretty in the monkey. You'll have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u24	Finally, Mr. Chairman. We borrow money as little as possible for current expenditure and as much as possible for strengthening the Netherlands, then having earning power and a strong society. In this context, therefore, we must also consider what our budget deficit should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u25	Sure. The last two sentences about that. That is precisely the reason why there is no doubt in my mind, however large these amounts are, that we can afford it, the money we now make available to jobs and businesses; no doubt that you could not repay it. That's one. And two, there is no doubt in my mind that that recipe is sensible at its core. If you're going to evaluate it in three years, I'm sure you're going to say that we should have done some things a little less, that we should have done some things differently, maybe some more. In an evaluation, of course, it never becomes a 10. And yet I believe that that is the right recipe. That larger discussion was in fact separate from and before corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u26	The honest story is, of course, that we borrow money to give as a gift to Italy. Then the Minister must also tell the honest story. Italy gets 5 billion from us, as a gift, under the Christmas tree. This year Italy has 5 billion of Dutch taxpayers: please. They never have to pay that back, that's just a gift from this minister to Italy. Stef Blok was in Italy last week and he was laughed at when he talked about reform. Everyone said: 'Oh, here comes the Dutch Foreign Minister to lecture us, that is not going to happen'. In other words, why do you give away 5 billion of our money to Italy, while 50% of the people in the Netherlands are up to their lips?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u27	It's really different. Firstly, the amounts are of a very different order size. Mr Van Dijck has mentioned here some 50 billion as the amount we would give to others. I am glad that this is being put in the right perspective at least now, but it is of a very different order if you put that 5 billion against the 60 billion that is currently on the counter. We're still counting, by the way. That's one. Two. We have agreed in Europe on a combination of investment, reform and then money. I think it is extremely important for all the Member States of the European Union to achieve a stronger, more sustainable economy. If you don't, you're gonna stay in the fuck-up anyway. Then you've got all the problems you've already had for corona, and then there's another huge pile of debt caused by corona. That you want to do something about it, as a sign of solidarity, but also as a sign of sensible policy, also driven from the Netherlands, I really think that is well-balanced and good to do. That it should not be free and that you can expect something in return, of course I agree with Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u28	The Minister always tries to put me and the PVV away in the sense of: the figures are not right and you name it. The fact is: Italy receives 85 billion as a gift from the recovery fund. The Netherlands contributes about 6%. That's 5 billion. The Dutch taxpayer will give Italy 5 billion as a gift. That will be quite good for Italy, but it is not good for the Dutchman who runs out of money every month. Why don't you give the 5 billion to the Dutch instead of the Italians? This minister doesn't do that. He's trying to sell us that it's good for the Netherlands to throw 5 billion over the fence towards Italy. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. Italy must stop its own pants. Italy can borrow money on the capital market, just like the Netherlands. In fact, Italy can even go to the capital market at almost negative rates. So if Italy needs money to do good things for Italy, they have to go to the capital market. Then they borrow some money and then they do their thing to achieve a good economy and whatever for their own people. But you are not going to tell me that it is good for the Dutchman, who now lacks money every month, that he transfers money every year to Italy, in this case 5 billion. That is about €650 per Dutch family.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr Van Dijck began by saying that I would put him away. That's gotta be some kind of misunderstanding. He knows how much I appreciate him. He knows I think he can do the math, too. It is true that some amounts are sometimes taken a little out of context. We have seen this with each other on this subject. We have heard Mr Van Dijck here also mention the total amount of hundreds of billions, if the Netherlands should pay that. It is true that I agree with Van Dijck that money will be made available, including from the Netherlands, if you, as a Member State, manage to implement these reforms. This applies to Italy and to a number of other Member States. That's right. We agree on that. The difference between the cabinet and Mr Van Dijck is that Mr Van Dijck says that in all cases he thinks this is unwise. The cabinet says that if these reforms are actually taking place and countries ensure sustainable economic growth, then we believe that there is a broader interest for the European Union and therefore for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u30	It still doesn't work for me... Okay, let me put it this way: how much does Italy get as a gift from the recovery fund? Is that 85 billion, yes or no? How much does the Netherlands contribute to this 85 billion as a gift to Italy? Is that 5 billion, yes or no? The Minister's going around like I'm talking some bullshit. The fact is that I'm transferring $5 billion to Italy, hoping they'll do good things with it... for Italy. But that's not what the Dutchman is waiting for. The Dutchman wants you as Minister of Finance to do good things for the Dutch and not for the Italian. The Italian is three times as rich as the Dutchman. They do not have such high private debts as we do here in the Netherlands. So you play a little the merciful Samaritan in Italy and say: that's good for us. That's bullshit. You're just giving away our money that we have to work hard for. All those middlemen who now have to close their shops, think, "What is this man doing? That gives our money away to Italy." Give it to those middlemen!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u31	The figures can be taken out of all those notes by Mr Van Dijck. Of course it's about his positioning here, if this would be a gift for under the Christmas tree. Of course, that's just not true. That's just not how we agreed. Where does the fundamental difference of understanding come from, of course? The cabinet really believes that the European Union is of great value added to the Netherlands in the financial and economic sense and as a value community. And there's not all the smell of roses and moonshine. There are a lot of things to improve. There are also serious concerns about issues such as the rule of law and, moreover, important issues relating to economic growth. We agree with many here. But the second doesn't mean you have to lose sight of that first one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u32	Quite specifically: how much does Italy receive as a gift from the Recovery Fund? One. And two: how much does the Netherlands contribute to this? Now I want to hear the figures, because you keep putting me away with: it's not like that, of course. That's right! 85 billion will be given to Italy as a gift. The Netherlands contributes 5 billion to this, as a gift. Under the Christmas tree. A present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u33	I refer to my previous answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u34	No. Now I want to hear the numbers, too. I call numbers. You don't mention them. You're just saying my numbers don't add up. How much does Italy get from the Recovery Fund? Is it 85 billion? If you don't know, it's allowed in second term. It's 85 billion. And how much does the Netherlands contribute to that gift, to that gift? Five billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u35	The key point here is that Mr Van Dijck wants to pretend that it is a gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u36	It's a gift!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u37	And the cabinet was, and remains, of the opinion that it is wise to continue to invest in the Union and to ask for it in return for these reforms as well. That is at the heart of the debate we had with Parliament in the summer. The cabinet will keep that going, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u38	Very briefly. What's it called when I give someone something and I don't have to have it back? Is that a gift, a gift, or is that a loan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u39	I am not sure whether Mr Van Dijck and I are in total agreement today, so I am going to refer again to my previous answers and I will continue with the answer. I had arrived at the second topic. That's corona and all the financial and economic questions that come from behind it. I'm back with Mr Van Dijck. He asked what the cabinet is doing against debts. Of course, but I'm not saying anything new about that. The cabinet really does a lot to prevent people from falling into poverty or debt. Moreover, in the supplementary social package, some 150 million more have been allocated to combating poverty and debt, in addition to everything the government has already agreed in the government agreement on debt issues. This includes municipal debt relief, special assistance and the guarantee fund that parties have explicitly called for. There are also resources in the package for strengthening the poverty and debt approach. In addition, the cabinet recently reserved the 130 million for the so-called TONK. I will spare you, Mr President, how long that abbreviation has been thought of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u40	Can you tell me what that abbreviation stands for? 'Cause not everyone at home knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u41	No, I always get confused with those abbreviations, so I'll do that with you in the second term. What is it? I think I hear Mrs De Vries say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u42	Temporary Support Necessary Costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u43	Mr President, I have honestly only laughed very hard at Mr Koolmees once. I was with Mr Slootweg. He asked about the disappointing figures relating to bankruptcies and unemployment. Don't they cause an equal setback in later years? How are we going to stop that? There's something curious in those numbers. You can see that the number of bankruptcies in the Netherlands is lower than in decades. You'd think, well, that's great news. Yet that is not true, of course, because companies are having an incredibly difficult time. Some are really on the brink of water, and they only survive because of the fact that they are actually on the brink of public finances. In my talks with banks, I also hear that it is taken into account that a small part of these companies, which is, of course, hopefully, as small a part as possible will not survive. That's what the planning agency says. With all these measures, of course, we want to ensure that the group that will be able to survive this will be as large as possible. Without damage, it won't work. See all forecasts on bankruptcy and unemployment. But I do think that with all these measures we have dampened this effect very much. Because if you hadn't done all this, then of course hundreds of thousands of Dutch people had entered the WW and the number of bankruptcies had grown dramatically. Mr Slootweg asked what the shrinking and growth sectors are, and whether we already find that people are reorienting themselves. Sure. There is also a special website that keeps track of which professions offer less perspective and what the professions are for which there is a lot of demand. I think we all know some of the examples. We see how well organizations deliver at home are doing. We see how well the supermarkets are doing. We also see that activities that you might not have thought of at first have much more appeal. For example, it seems that the vendors of board games are doing well. I couldn't have told you that in front, in March, April, but if you think about it, it makes sense because people are more at home and at some point are done with all the other things you can do. That's what's good about it. But, of course, there are also sectors that have been very badly affected. In the first place, think of the catering industry, the event industry, the tourism industry. Of course, they're all over their asses. So there are dramatic differences. The big challenge is, of course, not only to help sectors stand up, but also to see where you can help people from work to work. That is, of course, in essence the package that Koolmees, Wiebes and I wanted to present around Prinsjesdag. Mrs De Vries rightly asked how we are going to ensure that we continue to support entrepreneurs. I very much agree that we are offering and continuing to offer this perspective at the moment. That is precisely why we have doubled the TVL scheme for the next quarter and doubled it for this quarter. And in retrospect, I think it was wise that we did not limit that to the sectors that were most affected last week, namely the catering industry, the event industry and a few others, but that we said that we are doing it for all types of entrepreneurs who can use the TVL. Almost all of them are. I think we should keep that open look, too, with all the things we're doing. We shall also be discussing this in the Cabinet next Friday. We will therefore report to the Chamber with a letter on the support packages. I would also like to add my voice to yesterday's statement by the Prime Minister. Mr Slootweg asked a question about the risk regimes. He asked what exactly is meant by the deposit by the department, and which part of the outstanding risk is usually in the provision. In order to cover damage which may result from a guarantee issued by the Empire, that provision shall be built up. It is filled by a cost-covering premium. If a department then opts for a non-cost-covering premium, an additional payment by the department is required. The bigger issue, of course, is that we have been talking before Corona about how we are going to reduce all these guarantee schemes and all these things in the long term. It only shows how wise it was to ask for it, because in fact it was behind that question: what if things go wrong again, because then those arrangements will go up even further. That is, of course, exactly what you are seeing now, and that is also an important point of attention for the future. But I don't think it's something we should do in the here and now. Mr Slootweg and Mr Bruins asked: how is this going to go on and how is there going to be more use of these arrangements? Actually, I've already answered that question. I think so. I think all these arrangements are gonna go up. And I intend to map out even better the potential risks of corona-related loans at the State's Annual Financial Report. That's what I'm telling them. Mr Slootweg asked about the ageing of the information in the Navy's note. It is, of course, almost obsolete from the moment it was printed. He asked if I could give him a more up-to-date stand on the NOW. We now think, on the basis of the latest CPB figures, that spending on the NOW is over 1.8 billion higher. In addition, this NOW will not be completed on 1 January, which will bring another 800 million. I will try to see if we can update the last piece on this whole subject even after the debate on Friday, which the Cabinet will send to the Chamber. But I'm honestly not sure. I don't know how much more recent information we can provide. Mrs De Vries asked how we ensure that recoveries are not the neck of entrepreneurs. I very much agree with her that the cabinet is very generous about this. Here too you have another kind of dilemma: how do you ensure that one can go on and now deal with debt, without looking at a huge amount of debt as an entrepreneur, which means that you can't move forward anymore? Well, what have we done? It is precisely because we believe that a generous postponement policy fits in with a generous repayment system that we have chosen to extend the postponement of payment until 1 April. This payment scheme is also very generous: entrepreneurs only start reimbursement on 1 July and receive a payment period of 36 months. By the way, it is good to mark once again that in the second phase, the summer phase, we saw that entrepreneurs were actually going to pay back more than we expected. If things go well, people think: then I'm done with part of the misery, then I'm just paying my debts. So that went faster than expected. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about the 130 million for the TONK. What we are trying to do, of course, is to retain jobs and to avoid loss of income as much as possible. But there are also households that are suddenly experiencing or are about to lose their income. That is quite a heterogeneous group, as is shown by the research of Social Affairs, which you cannot actually achieve with one single arrangement. That is why, in consultation with me, the Secretary of State of SZW has put it this way, because it was said by his initiative: let us set it up in this way, because then there is the possibility for municipalities to offer tailor-made work. This has been preceded by extensive consultations with municipalities. It has really been estimated that it could work well in this way. It was thought that this amount should really be sufficient. So we cut that in two instalments, but also said, assuming that the misery continues: then we are at once at that whole amount. Mr. Chairman. Members Snels and Slootweg asked about career advice. That's where we do a lot of things. We made 14 million available last year for free development advice, and then another 37 million. In total, this is 51 million for career advice. In August, 22,000 people registered and 55,000 at the beginning of this month. In total, between 50,000 and 80,000 training courses are offered free of charge. For people who have not been able to register in time, there are many other possibilities through employers, R&D funds or trade unions. We're gonna do more on that. From spring 2021 onwards, we will open two grant counters, which include development advice. This is both the so-called SLIM scheme and the new NL scheme. Then Mr Slootweg asked about UWV, municipalities and further training courses. With the accompanying package, 1.4 billion has been released, including for training. The focus of many of these schemes is in 2021. Much will also be open soon, and also has to do with the start-up period. Of course, we decided this around Prince's Day. With that we commit the money and show that we take it seriously, but then, of course, it still has to be implemented. Mr Slootweg asked about the buffers for families and how long they could cover possible income losses. That is, in general, difficult to say. We have the idea that the whole package will help Dutch people through this difficult phase. I have no specific insight into how this would affect the buffers of families and families differently and whether that would be worse or less bad. This also depends on the specific situation. Again, this is a very heterogeneous group. Of course, we always have the WW and the assistance as a safety net. I have just indicated that you can also imagine with this group that the TONK offers even more results. Mrs De Vries asked about retraining, but I have already answered that question. Mrs De Vries also asked about the brown fleet. The cabinet has made 15 million available for this, in addition to the generic packages. Of course, we will continue to talk with this sector as well. Mr. Slootweg asked: are we monitoring the packages? Others also asked about abuse. Yeah, we're monitoring the packages. However, I have to say that I have always been elite in this regard, that as joint ministries or as one specific ministry, you sometimes build this kind of arrangement for a month or nine. Then you stress it and then you make sure that fraud is limited and then you try to build in all kinds of safeguards. But I do remember how quickly we put these arrangements together in March. I would almost like to say 'flanked' and how quickly we could then open them. Speed really went for precision back then. Then you try to learn from it and then you try to put everything on everything so that it doesn't get abused. This is about public money, and I find it really unacceptable for such crisis measures to be abused. At the same time, this meant that these schemes may be slightly less robust than the legislation and instruments in the field of social security that we normally use. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer also asked about vulnerable and small entrepreneurs. That is a very fair question. I think I have already indicated enough what we are doing with the TONK and also how all the arrangements, i.e. from the TVL to the NOW, are open to entrepreneurs. Of course, it has been a very conscious choice to double the TVL. In addition, you can see that it really helps the relatively small entrepreneurs. For the average multinational it doesn't matter if you do that amount twice; for them it's a drop on a glowing plate. They really only need the NOW scheme. I would also like to say to Mr Nijboer that we have allocated extra money to the SW companies, to help people from the target group in the employment agreement, to combat learning disadvantages and basic skills, and to initiatives such as Tel along with Language. I myself am very pleased that the ministers of OCW have been able to use, on a smaller scale, both in the summer and, I believe, in the autumn holidays, the opportunity to give extra lessons to vulnerable pupils. Mr Nijboer, like me, is always very interested in the issue of education. One of the well-known concepts against which you always have to fight is the so-called summer slide. You close the school for six weeks, but what does that mean? Children's heads don't stand still, but it's different from when they continue to learn. This is already the case in normal situations, but children of relatively highly educated parents are read out throughout the summer holidays and all kinds of things are done with them. That summer slide is therefore much more limited with them than with children from disadvantaged families. The sad thing is that they are getting off to a worse start at that point. That is not good, and that is why I think it is very good that we have made an extra investment in it. Mr President, that was the corona block, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u45	I think Mr. Alkaya was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u46	If you all want Mr Alkaya to speak, who am I to stop it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u47	What a Christmas spirit, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u48	There is a great deal of justice in this Chamber, Mr President. Thank you! If there is coulance in the recovery of taxes still to be paid by entrepreneurs, does the Minister agree with the Socialist Party that the same degree of coulance should also apply to households?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u49	Could Mr Alkaya be even more specific? What's he talking about? What exactly would he want? My impression is that we are not only generous and reasonable to all kinds of groups that can make use of regulations, but that this is also true in all kinds of reimbursements. So I'd like to know more specifically where his concern is. Is that in the area of debt restructuring? Where does he have the impression that it may not be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u50	I got that impression after a question from the VVD. The question was asked: be effective after July 2021 in recovering that tax debt from entrepreneurs. So the question is whether, if they can't pay or can't pay in full in July, then for example in August, September or afterwards can be recovered. The point is that not all companies will fall in July 2021 because the Tax Administration will start collecting tax debts from that moment on. I understand that when it comes to small entrepreneurs, but it can of course also be households reporting income tax in March and then being told that they have to pay back because their situation has changed because of the corona crisis, and that they have to pay back a lot. So the point is that the same degree of coulance that is applied to entrepreneurs is also going to apply to households. We do not want households suddenly to get into trouble in 2021 because they have a tax debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u51	A few things are important to mark. We have now extended that delay of payment until 1 April 2021. We have also said that the repayment of tax debt is something else; it is not the regular payment, but the repayment of deferred tax debt starts from 1 July 2021 and that a payment period of 36 months applies. That's right to make sure that someone doesn't think on July 2nd: look what I have on my bike now! As far as income tax is concerned, you have a completely different situation. People who pay income tax are almost all covered by these NOW regulations, so there are no signs that there is now a dramatic sword of Damocles hanging over their heads. By the way, in this whole file, the Tax Administration is always looking at what specific agreements can be made. So I'd like to check and see if there's a problem with income tax. I don't think so. Otherwise, I'll take that up in the second term. But I also want to be careful about solving problems that don't exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u52	That is clear, but I have already received a letter from the Tax Administration: "Watch out, in 2021, your situation might change. A lot is changing in the economy, so if there are any changes at this time, please report it on time, because it may have to do with surcharges that you have received too much and so on, and that could mean anything at the end of the year." And when that kind of situation happens, I assume that the government is just as generous, and doesn't push people over the edge of the abyss again. I assume that the government will deal with them in the same way as the entrepreneurs. I hope that this is a bit of a basic principle, and that we are not very cooperative with entrepreneurs, but are going to be very hard on households who are also facing a situation at the end of the year that they did not take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u53	Language is important here. That the government would push people over the edge, of course there is no question of that. I believe that the whole of the government's recipe has been aimed at ensuring in reasonable terms that as many people as possible can keep their jobs. I think it is very prudent of the Tax Administration that one should not be the only one, and Mr Alkaya will not be the only one to have sent a letter which says: pay attention, a lot of things change and take that into account, so that you do not have a recovery later or that you may have paid too much tax and have to pay it again. So, frankly, I think that's really good and prudent from the Tax Administration. I would like to take a look at the second term to see what kind of signals we have about income tax, but I am honestly not aware of this. So if there's a reason to solve a problem, I'm going to look at it, but non-existent problems we also have to leave non-existent problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u54	I am a little nervous about the Minister's reply, because I feel that he is getting the hang of what the cabinet is doing at the moment. We're in a new situation. I have asked a number of specific questions, including the tax arrangements that expire and the entrepreneurs that started in January or February. I have asked questions about the guarantee schemes and I have asked whether we can get money quickly from entrepreneurs, which is apparently already being discussed. I won't get any concrete answers. I find it a little complicated when the minister plays a little nice weather outside, like "boys, we're gonna look at it generously and we're gonna do what's necessary," and then I'm gonna get a list up here. I would really like those questions answered. Take that 15 million for entrepreneurs from the brown fleet. That may be very laughable by the Minister, but those are entrepreneurs who have a problem. Then the Minister says "we will continue to talk about this," but my question was: did that money now end up with those entrepreneurs? I'm not just asking these things. I'm really worried about that. I just want a concrete answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u55	Honestly, I'm a little surprised. I believe that the Prime Minister here yesterday, also with the agreement of the VVD Group, said that most of the arrangements are likely to be in place, but that the cabinet will simply, as always, look openly at what is needed. I think it is perfectly logical that I should not be able to enter into a settlement 24 hours later, while on Friday there is a cabinet council, with the troika, with the three Secretary of State. What I have indicated outside and what I have repeated in here is that it is about that combination. You have that whole package, whether it's 95%, 98% or 99%, and besides that you'll see if you have anything to do on that very last piece. Secondly, I have indicated that my expectation is that the use of these schemes will increase by some billions. That's also important to mark. If Mrs De Vries asks me how many billions that will be, I say 'I don't know', but you can of course count on a cigar box that gives you a big bill for these two, three weeks of this year, and by the way, next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u56	I understand that, but I do have a question about that. It will be discussed on Friday, but I have made a number of specific points. I ask the Minister whether they can be taken into account in that discussion. My question was actually more overarching. I have said that it cannot be that the finances are an obstacle if additional measures are needed. That's what I want to hear from this minister. If he says out there "we need to do it," then we need to do it in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mrs De Vries really sees something that, I think, is out of the question. If the cabinet has done one thing, then it is far from being economical with each of those arrangements. That was, of course, at the heart of my speech in the first term. I am convinced that helping businesses and maintaining jobs is very sensible in terms of content. This also prevents all kinds of people from falling into a dramatic situation due to bankruptcy or unemployment. Moreover, it is economic and financial-economic wise, because it provides a potentially much greater boost in the area of the economy. That's one. Two is that otherwise you would still find a large part of that account in the treasury, because if people become unemployed, you will see it in the WW. That mindset, that attitude of myself, but also of all the other colleagues involved in the cabinet, remains real.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u58	I interpret this in such a way that the Minister also wants to give room in the financial field. I have asked a very specific question about the risk arrangements. On the other points, perhaps I will come back in the second term. Risk schemes are under-used in a number of cases. It's about the KKC and the GO. I have asked a number of specific questions about this. I would like a response from the Minister, because I think there could be an important bottleneck for entrepreneurs. If the banks are not helping and if these guarantee schemes do not work, then we must also be prepared to look into them. Then we have to look at how we can ensure that all of this ends up in the hands of those entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u59	I think I said a lot of things about risk management. I have also said before in the Chamber that some regulations have simply been used more than others. You're gonna make these arrangements quick. Some points of contact and some measures are found to be more attractive by certain entrepreneurs. Our assessment has been relatively good in some respects. For example, we had estimated that the NOW would cover a billion or 10 in the first phase, and I believe that this has all gone up. In the second phase, there was an important underexhaustment in what we expected. That's what this is all about. What I think has really worked well is that banks, especially in the first phase, have really gained a huge edge and have been extremely helpful towards entrepreneurs and thus have provided a lot of credit to all our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u60	This year there are less start-ups, but there are far fewer companies going bankrupt than usual, even compared to last year's boom. So far, the number of bankruptcies has been reduced by about 20%. How are we going to prevent the next coalition from ending up in a fear of austerity next year and will have a tendency not to wear off in order to avoid that delayed wave?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u61	I'm only playing a limited, modest role in my own party. So I find it complicated to say things about the formation, but Mr Bruins may be one of them. So he has every opportunity to take that issue back there. I agree with him that it is inevitable that you, whether you like it or not, and we all of course don't like it at all. You're hoping to avoid as many of the bankruptcies as you haven't seen at the moment, but you're getting some kind of after-life effect. That is sad for the entrepreneurs who are involved and also for all the people who work there, but see the planning agency and see all the forecasts: some of them are still getting to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u62	Yeah, that's exactly what I expect. That could give a fear of austerity to another coalition. We've been talking about the model makers before. I think this is pretty good to model, that bow wave. We see that in the second half of this year more than 500 companies are less bankrupt than in 2019. So you know that's a delayed bow wave. A certain degree of throughput is also healthy in an economy and also gives innovation. Would it not be good if in the second quarter of next year the model makers put that bow wave on the table, so that politics, when we hope to be able to move towards the austerity of aid packages and when the sun shines again and there is a vaccine, does not startle from that delayed bow wave, but can take that into account in the financial frameworks and the debates that are going to come about about losing those packages?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u63	That's an interesting thought, but in part that's also a question for the planning agency. It is good to recall that the planning agency was in fact in a much sharper position in this competition and I think it is also in the cabinet. There was even more of the school that the packages that we had a month ago and which we have naturally expanded considerably since then should actually have met. I have to say that the situation we have been in since yesterday has not been foreseen, but the encouragement from that side was, frankly, above all that the aid package was very strong and should be able to meet in this way. As a cabinet, we felt that there should be even more attention for all those seriously affected entrepreneurs in the catering industry, in the event business and so on. We wanted to do a lot more in the fourth quarter and in the first quarter, but the planning agency already had a sharper line than the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u64	I'm not going to impose another task on the CPB from the Chamber. We shouldn't do that too often. It's an excellent planning agency. I'm sure they have this in mind too, and perhaps they'll listen to this debate. But I think it would be a very good idea if we asked the CPB together to be sharp on that bow wave and help us in the planning and control cycle of the Empire to have that bow wave, those additional bankruptcies and the resulting unemployment rates sharp indeed in the first half of next year, so that we could budget for the next cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u65	I think that's a very good suggestion. Here's what I'm gonna do. In my opinion, Mr Bruins is always in complete agreement with me that we should not still be providing work assignments to the planning agencies via the back door. At the same time, I know that people are listening to this. This also seems to me to be a subject on which I can think about the Ministry. In that case, the parties will be able to let it be formulated openly, perhaps in the formation take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u66	A word about the guarantee scheme, actually about the risk premium you pay for it. As I understand it, this is the case: if, for example, you have a guarantee scheme for 1 billion, the premium is actually based on it. If this scheme is used for only 100 million, it could actually be earned. Is there still a certain time when you look at whether there is a reason to adjust the premium because the use is much lower? Or does that premium actually remain the same until the end of its term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u67	That's a good question. You must, of course, already hope that this situation will occur. Moreover, as a function of the total amount, the premium is relatively small. So you should say: you actually paid a lot of premium for the money you used. Against this figure, Mr Slootweg wants to take another additional measure. I really should puzzle on that, because I think this is complicated in the system. That will then immediately raise a question. This is of course always the case with premiums: of course there are all kinds of things in that premium. Whether you should say to one person that he can pay less premium, because he has made less use of it... that might be complex. So I'm willing to look at that, but knowing what that premium is as a function of the amount you're ultimately paying out, I don't know if that's wise in the end. Let me take that back in the second term or by letter or letter, and that might be even better in the overviews I'm going to make towards the Reich's Annual Financial Report. Because, of course, it is also quite a technical exercise in the end. Then I can try to answer that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u68	My second question is in the same area. It is also, I think, something to do with the Annual Financial Report. We have now received a very nice and very clear overview of the guarantee schemes. That makes Parliament feel the risks we are running; that is important. In fact, there is no such overview of the loans. Would it not be wise to have an overview of the loans in addition to an overview of the guarantees, so that Parliament can see much better what risks we can take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u69	Yes. Let me take that suggestion into account. Honestly, this is one of the things that have been said before towards the Millions Note: it just helps if you can take all the overviews, if necessary just from the topline numbers, until you can take them. So I'm gonna try to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u70	I'm gonna go back to the guarantee arrangements. We have been told that only 5% to 10% of the Small Credits Corona Guarantee Scheme and the JV financing have been used. That is precisely what the guarantee schemes are for small businesses. My specific question to the Minister is: what reason is this use so low?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u71	I am going to return to the exact amounts in the second term, because I really need to have some contact with the policy ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u72	That's fine. I'll ask you a question right away. I believe that these arrangements should be in line with what business needs and should not be lying on a shelf somewhere useless. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the banks to see how we can better match them to business demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u73	In itself, but this is typically something that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the two heads of government are looking at. Of course, you're trying to design something that works. At the same time, there are just sometimes entrepreneurs who prefer to use something else. It is also true that some of the schemes were less necessary, because entrepreneurs just managed to find their way directly to a bank. I'll get back to you in second term. Then let's see if there's a problem that we should want to solve. For I am sure that, if so, the leaders of EZK are also prepared to do so. But I'd like to have a word with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u74	I have another question. The Minister said that we have all made these arrangements under steam and boiling water, and much use is being made of them. That's right. Mr Koolmees has also said this very often in the Chamber. But abuse is really unacceptable, says the Minister of Finance. And now there's abuse at the payroll companies. We know that now. You might not be able to reverse that, because it all had to be done quickly, but we know that now. That is really not meant for them; the payroll companies were meant to be smaller. They raise tens of millions of dollars in government subsidies. My question is: what is the cabinet going to do to prevent that? Are these arrangements being adapted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'll be back in a minute at the payroll companies. I have the impression that Mr Nijboer has already asked this question to the Minister for Social Affairs and I do not think I am going to be able to embellish that answer very much further. But I'll get back to you in a minute. In general, of course, I agree with what has been said about abuse. But if you'll just give me a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u76	Then I'll come back to this later. Because if, in general terms, it is said that abuse is unacceptable, but nothing is done when abuse occurs, then what are we doing here? I agree with Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u77	That's a good question anyway. And there's still no answer to that. Now Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u78	I have one more question about the NOW 1 scheme. Turns out 60% has to pay back. Does the minister know why people have to pay back? And is that going to happen with the NOW 2, the NOW 3 and the TVL and the fridge fee and you name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u79	There are a number of reasons why it is necessary to recalculate. And in part, that reason is just really good news. The companies have said "I want to make use of it," they make an assessment and then you see "you" and of course we have seen that in the first phase in particular that the blow was very hard at the very beginning, and that then at some point more money is being earned than one had previously expected, so you adjust your estimate. I think there's something inevitable in this. To be honest, I think it is a good thing if entrepreneurs manage to make more money, to be more open and therefore also to have less use of the scheme. But of course the reverse situation is also taking place. One of the things we are really looking at, of course, and I think that was said yesterday, but I do not know for sure: for example, make sure that you do not use the initial closing date in that fourth quarter when those arrangements are open, but see if you can extend them. In any case, the initial closing date was for one of those arrangements, I believe, on last Sunday. It may well be that the situation of the last few weeks, and in particular these two weeks which are still long in the year, means that companies still have to make use of them. And when the window is closed, that's very unfortunate. But that, too, will mean that adjustments must be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u80	What I found so strange about the whole NOW scheme is that the TVL and the fridge fee and soon the stock fee for all those middlemen who are in the making, I have understood as turnover for those companies. In other words, you'll have a 100% turnover loss, because you're closed; and then you'll get a TVL of €20,000 and a stock fee of €20,000, and then this minister pretends you've had €40,000 sales. But you have zero sales, because you're closed, and so you get much less NOW than the 80% that was initially promised, and as a result you have to pay back. So who made that up to consider the TVL and the fee for your stock or your fridge as sales?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u81	Just pulling a few things apart. Of course, part of the scheme is different. In particular, in the NOW scheme, you see this problem of reimbursement to a large extent. You'll see less of that with the other arrangements. And with that so-called TOGS, that arrangement that we only had the first time and that was much more limited, everyone was an amount and you don't talk about it anymore, it was, in Mr Van Dijck's words, just a gift. In addition, you have the problem of these two regulations, and how they affect each other. I remember, but that's more from an earlier stage, that the ministries of EZK and SZW have broken their heads about interfering with these two arrangements and how to ensure that it goes in a sensible way. Indeed, every euro you spend on one domain has effects on the euro in the second domain. I should like to look at how this has finally been resolved in the field of technology, because that is also closer to the portfolio of the two colleagues in the cabinet. So I would like to look at that, but it will have to be done in the second term or at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u82	Well, it would be very good to look at that, especially since the stock allowance for all the middle classes that have been closed since yesterday is now being put in the scaffolding. And at the moment that's cut down on your revenue loss, it seems as if the people who don't have revenue still have a fairly large turnover because of that one-off fee. And that is of course never the intention, so it would be good to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u83	Yes. But perhaps I should repeat it here in general. I fully understand Mr Van Dijck's question. I also fully understand Mrs De Vries' questions from earlier. Only here, every time you try to see the whole palette in its entirety. You're actually looking very closely. EZK makes calculations and SZW makes calculations of what this means for the different branches of sport, the different industries. And then you adjust your arrangements or not, and you do something extra or not. It is being worked with man and power in the ministries, also with regard to something like what Mr Van Dijck means. I cannot say that the cabinet has been too economical in the last nine months. That's really not my perception. We will continue with this attitude of life, but I do think we should do it properly in the Cabinet at once. We'll discuss that again on Friday, and then we'll come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u84	Thank you. I'd like to point out the time. The next debate must begin at 3 p.m. We still have three blocks to go from the minister. We also have a second term. All kinds of technical questions have been asked, so that has to be sorted out again. I would like to ask everyone to say a few words. I will only allow essential interruptions. For non-essential interruptions, go to the Wibra or the Action. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I also consider it a matter of urgency at my address. I'm going to try to do the spending block with the speed that you're often so own. The first question is a question from Mr Slootweg on improving the IenW-schemes. He's seen more money being spent. It's a fair question. That also has our attention, and that of the Ministry of IenW. We're talking about it. What's happening here is that to make sure you don't have any underexhaustment, you're trying to overplan a little. And there was, of course, the need for all of us to keep the economy at work, so rather a little too much than far too little. And yet you don't want to have overruns in the end. So we'll see how we can do that even better. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked about the 1% rule. In the Autumn paper, the cabinet has shifted a number of important cabinet-wide dossiers, in total around 800 million, beyond the regular end-of-year margin to 2021, precisely because these resources will then remain available. This was also partly inspired by wishes expressed here in the Chamber. Furthermore, the 1% rule applies, but Slootweg knows that, not for Defence and IenW, or at least not for large parts of those budgets. Mr Slootweg asked about the reason for the downward adjustment of the child-related budget. This is the result of lower estimated expenditure for the World Cup recovery action, which amounts to around 25 million. The intensification of that child-related budget by 150 million, increasing the amount of the child from the third child onwards, does not apply until 1 January 2021. Mr Slootweg asked about the nature of the windfall in primary education. This relates to the effects on the so-called reference estimates and less use of the small school allowance. As we see it now, this is occasional and does not lead to additional spending on catching up lessons in 2021. However, in the Spring Paper 2021, the Cabinet will report any structural effects, not yet foreseen, and will also report. I believe that this is in line with his contribution. Then Mr Slootweg asked for it to be a Slootweg block when there is more clarity about the cost of the care to be overtaken. At present, the most recent figures have been incorporated into the draft budget 21 and the second sup of VWS. This possibility of catching up, which you, of course, want to a great extent in medical terms, is closely linked to the capacity of healthcare providers and the care they can provide. At present, no major budgetary impact is assumed from catching up in 2021. Catch-up care cannot be precisely quantified at this time either. We'll have to see about that. I expect to be able to consider that in the Spring paper. It depends on how the flag hangs in the area of corona, because perhaps that too soon. Mr Sneller rightly refers to rising healthcare expenditure, which is the subject that keeps me particularly interested. Steps have indeed been taken, also by the current leaders of VWS, but let us be honest: that remains an important point of attention. That is what I said at the beginning of my speech. All kinds of paths have thus been put in place, even by Minister Bruins, in the area of policy options. There have also been agreements in the field of these basic agreements. Of course, I have been involved in this in the background, also to make sure that it would become a little less. But Mr Sneller is right: this point will remain with us, at least in the next cabinet period, but I suspect that after that too. Then Mr Slootweg asked, in the category of care: is there enough budgetary space to support next year? In the care sector, agreements have been made on these additional costs and the continuity contribution. The possibility of making such agreements also exists in 2021. In doing so, I immediately mortgage my response to Mr Sneller, but that is really inevitable in this case, I think. I think I have answered Mr Sneller's second question on the study group. Mr Nijboer asked whether money could be made available for the salaries in the care sector. Then I have to refer to the answers given earlier by the VWS ministers, namely that the cabinet believes that these salaries are being paid, but on the other hand felt that it would be necessary and willing to take a substantial extra step in the area of bonuses, both this year and next year. A very substantial amount of 1.4 billion has been allocated for this purpose. That, by the way, has been exceeded by 800 million, I believe. Next year there will also be a very substantial amount of money, which is smaller than this year's reserve. Then I'll continue with the solar panels. Mr Van Dijck asked: how can interest be paid on such a type of amount? Here's what's going on. You're just gonna get interest in your aim the moment you don't pay the bill. That's the way you look at it. We have decided to pay the bill now so that interest does not tick, but we say that we reserve all rights and we simply want to fight this further in a legal procedure. We really do have a different view from the Commission. We are entering into a constructive dialogue on this issue, but, if necessary, we are also prepared to present this dispute to an EU judge. Mr. Chairman. On the solar panels, Mr Slootweg asked about the choice to continue with that interest. Look, that delay rate is obviously a potential account. That interest is only payable if that principal amount should ultimately be paid. But since there's always a chance that you'll have to pay it eventually, I think it's wise that you pay it now, because at least you won't pay all the interest you'd otherwise owe. I consider that to be prudent from the budget. But the main bet of course remains that you do not have to pay at all. Then, of course, there is no interest at all. It is therefore all subject to reservation, I would like to say to him and to Mr Van Dijck, and it is not the case that the Netherlands has already paid interest. So no money has yet been transferred to Brussels. It is true that you, would not agree and then lose, then will have to pay the first piece of interest. Mr President, then I have spent the block as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u86	You see, you can do it. Mr Van Dijck was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u87	About that interest. Of course, it's crazy that you pay 300 million interest on a claim of 700 million. The tears shoot me in the eyes just of that. However, I understood that it concerns import duties or at least dumping duties that would not have been paid in 2015, whereas this is only established in 2019. So for four years you're in good faith, and then suddenly, with retroactive effect, you get a claim that four years ago you didn't pay off something they thought should have. Surely it is no way to allow a person to have acted in good faith for four years and then to charge, with retroactive effect, a large interest rate for delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u88	I understand that this dossier did not further increase Mr Van Dijck's love for the European Union. I also think that interest rates are high, but I cannot escape these kinds of rules that are simply applicable in the agreements that exist between the different Member States. Again, I think it's a really high amount, especially if you look at the main amount. At the same time, I have not looked into this matter further, and I imagine that more Member States will sometimes face such a fine. If you say 'we're not going to make any effort and not putting in any incentive to make Member States pay', I think that countries, especially those that have this kind of dispute more often, are not inspired to pay for it. So that there is something of an incentive in that Union to ensure that the payment is made to the Commission, I think it is logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u89	Just a little while longer. I'm more concerned with the momentum. Suppose I now receive a letter from the Tax Administration, which writes: you paid too little tax in 2015. I get that letter in 2020, and then I get the penalty interest from 2015 because I didn't pay enough tax back then. That's impossible, isn't it? The moment you notice and then default if you don't pay, and that from then on the penalty rate starts to run, yes. But you can't get a letter with retroactive effect stating that you haven't paid enough while you've been in good faith all these years and thought you'd paid enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u90	I understand the inconvenience. On the other hand, of course, it's more often like this. On the one hand, we are planning for a very long time in terms of amounts in Europe; see the budgetary system that we are using and which we are simply committing ourselves to for years ahead. Sometimes you also have post-charges or refunds on the current or previous year. This is very delirious indeed. That has something uncomfortable, I agree with Mr Van Dijck. But I don't see any procedural reason to oppose that. I don't see how you'd stand a chance of that. In my view, you should make a substantive argument about this case, that you actually think that there is no dumping here, because of the trajectory behind those solar panels. That is, of course, always at the heart of the substantive dispute with the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u91	In his Schoo lecture, the Minister of Finance explained that he felt that expenditure on social security and care should be cut. So I understand that, from his political conviction, he is not so enthusiastic about that extra appreciation for the people who work in the care that goes from €1,000 to €500, while these people are very busy right now. What I do not understand very well is that the cabinet has spent a year trying to demarcate those groups, from nurses and hospitals and youth care and home care, and who does and who does not. That's a total failure. Everyone got angry and had an argument among themselves, and that the cabinet is proposing this again for next year. Why has this group not remained the same and how will the cabinet prevent the same arguments, which have been caused by the cabinet over the past year, from happening again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u92	In my view, there was a brutal political attack in the introduction on something that I do not think I have said so. I have warned, but also here, and not only in a personal capacity, but also on behalf of the cabinet, that you simply have to observe with each other that two budget lines for very important subjects I have just said that I do have the ability to push many of the other chicks out of the nest. That's just reality. And then we'll be different in what kind of solutions you have to offer, but I didn't want to take anything away from the importance, including good salaries in both sectors. That's important to mark again. Mr Nijboer, of course, also knows history in this area and knows how the cabinet has really tried to do what is reasonable. Unlike the PvdA Group, the cabinet has said that we do not think it is appropriate to do something structuralally in the area of salaries. We choose a one-time bonus in this year and a one-time bonus next year. In addition, we are releasing an amount in the order of 130 million for bottlenecks. That is a structural amount to keep the work attractive. That's probably the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u93	Two questions. One, that Schoo reading was in a personal capacity, wasn't it? Or do Christian Union and CDA already support that? Because then we will have a very different debate here tomorrow. ChristianUnion and D66, sorry Mr. Slootweg, I saw that then a bit as a candidate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u94	Let's get down to
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u95	That is important, Mr President, because the Minister said: I say on behalf of the whole cabinet, the expenditure on social care and security should go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u96	No. Mr. Chairman. I appreciate Mr Nijboer's renewed interest in the things I said earlier since this weekend. And the fact that he also read that Schoo-lecture all over again over the last few days, I still find a token of appreciation that I had not seen coming. Such lectures are always on a personal level, and I have made no mistake about that before. But I am not telling you anything completely new about health expenditure in particular as part of the entire state budget. In fact, because of a large majority in the Chamber, not only of coalition parties but also of other parties, such as DENK, the SGP and other parties, I have often pointed out the following. You really want to do everything I can to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands, whatever he deserves, has access to that excellent care we have. But we also need to see how we keep that affordable for future generations. That's the reality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u97	Finally. We are also here in the Chamber to clarify what general political views in people's lives mean. When the Minister of Finance says "care expenditure is a kind of cuckoo boy that reduces all expenditure," this means that people in care are not given a structural extra appreciation. Now the group is getting smaller and next year their rewards are going to be lower than this year. That's a choice I don't support. I think that the Minister of Finance should do more for the care workers at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u98	This is something I don't recognize. See all those reports that Repping and others are working on. They are to a large extent about the parts of the care that you have to ask what added value they have had for the patient. I'm talking to people who know a lot more about it than I do. They say: in a lot of cases it is potentially possible to consume less care. That automatically does something with how much you spend as a society. So I think it's wise that you want to explore those kinds of roads. Mr Nijboer wants to bring that back to the point of the sale, but that has not been a consideration, either for me or for the Minister of the United States of America. It has just been looked at: what do we think is real and what do we think is reasonable, if you look internationally at salaries and if you compare it with other professional groups in the Netherlands? Then, with the very broad support of the Chamber, we made the choice to give extra appreciation to all the hard work that this group has done this year. Looking somewhat ahead, I would say that this is likely to be the case at least in part next year. We do not know how great the appeal to care will be. I hope it will be very much smaller by vaccination and testing, but it won't be zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u99	I would like to go through the matter a little more pointy. Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u100	I have a brief question for the Minister. I have the feeling that the VVD folder has been lost to the Minister, because I have asked a number of questions about solar panels, but also about the overrun of I and W. I would have expected the answers to that in the expenditure block, unless the Minister now states that it is all dealt with in 'other' cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u101	He might well have mentioned Slootweg a few times where I should have said De Vries, but I have had the question about the overrun at I and W and I think I have also had the questions about the solar panels. But I'll make up for that omission immediately. I have answered three, four or five questions on this matter, from Mr Van Dijck and Mr Slootweg. I haven't exactly been measuring who asked the questions. What if I understood each of these questions and asked by Mrs De Vries? I don't think there are any questions about the solar panels I haven't answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u102	Good. Maybe I will come back to that in the second term, if I have the time. I am not concerned at all with my name being mentioned, but I just want answers to my questions. I specifically asked if the Minister could send a letter on the IenW overrun in relation to DBFMO. If the Minister has already promised, that is of course a good thing. We have had debates on this before. I hope I got the abbreviation right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u103	The non-desecrated don't understand it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u104	It is a financing method for infrastructure projects. There is always a commitment from the Treasury, and I would like to know the Minister's vision and policy on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u105	Mrs De Vries says in all modesty that she does not like her name being mentioned in all the questions, but I think it is important to highlight that I have answered the first part of it. I said that we are talking to the Ministry of IenW. Of course, I'd like to tell her that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u106	I'm trying to be brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u107	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u108	I understand that the solar panels in Germany have ended up on a roof in front of a bump. I do not know whether I have gotten Mr Van Dijck paraphraseer on a roof, while we are paying the import duties in the Netherlands. If we are talking about such a high amount of dumping, can we not also look at Germany in the interaction, such as: should you not be co-paying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u109	Of all the things I have to discuss with Mr Scholz, I had not yet put them on the list, but I would be happy to reconsider. Mr. Chairman. I have a very short block of income; that will appeal to you. Mr Slootweg asked about environmental taxes and a great deal of luck. Why is that? What's the deal with that, exactly? It fits within a broader picture that we all recognise, namely that the economy and also the tax revenues in the Autumn note have in any case developed more favourably than estimated. A better economy, as we all know, also means more production and more energy use. I have to say, however, that I am not aware of the contribution that people working at home have made to this windfall, because there is no doubt that some offices have used up less energy. Then Mr Slootweg asked in which taxes the biggest changes are to be expected. That's a good question. I suspect that the lockdown will mainly result in tax delays. That's the image we're seeing right now. Where exactly that will strike down, it is not entirely possible to say in advance. When it comes to loss, it will probably be a combination of VAT, payroll tax and profit tax. But I haven't inventoried that any further. I will see if I can put a bit more on that in the part that we will discuss on Friday and then share with the Chamber. Mr Alkaya was right to ask about another subject which was not easy and also painful, namely the vulnerable and then specifically the situation with regard to the supplementing affair. In my opinion, yesterday the Secretary of State discussed with the Chamber that the comprehensive assessment, the adequate help of the victims and the good work, preferably with great speed, is much more complex than thought and that unfortunately this takes more time. In my view, it has indicated that it intends to complete it in 2021 in the revised planning... I must say that the revised planning is based mainly on 2021 and beyond. I think that is what she has indicated; I do not want to say anything other than what she has said about this earlier. The starting point in the planning is that all parents who have already checked in will be helped next year. Mr Alkaya rightly pointed out that the payment of €750 was partly made after consultation here in the Chamber. Then he asked about the external hire. It is true that considerable costs have been incurred, but this is also because the cost is not so much for the benefit but for the benefit. I understand that if you add up all the external hiring, it's going to be about 16 million. This is about the primary process, the support and the setting up and organisation of the organisation. To be honest, I would have been more annoying if we had been very economical in this, because it would probably only take more time. But it is right that he should draw attention to this. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the block by then. I have a few things in there, but I will try to do them with speed. Mr Sneller asked about legality. It is right that he should ask for this again in a debate like this. This was specifically about Article 4.7 Compatibility Act and the report of the General Court of Auditors on Air France-KLM and IHC. As far as we are concerned, I believe that I have also indicated this in a response to the first paragraph of Article 4.7. It states that the pending procedure must be followed in all cases where the State is involved in "the creation, co-creation or creation of a private legal person'. However, we are really checking whether the so-called framework for foundations, in which the creation, co-foundation or creation of a foundation has been developed, is sufficiently in line with the intentions of that legislative text. If it turns out that this connection is missing, then we will also clarify the foundations framework further on this point. Mrs De Vries asked about the approving statement. What am I gonna do about it? What have I done and what are we going to do in the future? I have, of course, discussed this with the Court of Auditors. That is what we are saying: unlawful is unlawful, but we are also aware that the context has changed. I understand this from the role that the Court of Auditors has to play. Of course we'll take that into account. We have also tried to involve lessons from the previous crisis as closely as possible in public policy over the last nine months. We have indeed tried to do it as well as possible, even with all the suggestions, but I must also honestly say that sometimes we have actually chosen, and have had to choose speed. I also hope for some understanding. Mrs De Vries, and I think Mr Sneller too, asked about 2.27 of the Compatibility Act, the emergency procedure communication with the Chamber. It is good to emphasise that, as a rule, as far as I am concerned, the second paragraph of that article will have to be handled with caution. I have also drawn inter-departmental attention to this, and I try to ensure as closely as possible that when calling upon that Article Member, the urgency and importance of the Empire, as the Cabinet sees it, are explicitly included in Parliamentary letters and future occasional budgets. Then, of course, this section must be able to pass the substantive test of the criticism of the Chamber itself and of the Court of Auditors. But this is the way we try to shape it. Mr Sneller also asked about the hiring standard at the Ministry of Finance itself. This is mainly about additional resources that have been made available for Increases, in order to put the Tax Administration in order. And the answer to this question is actually contained in my comment just now to Mr Alkaya. I understand the inconvenience, but I had found the opposite more complicated, namely not doing anything extra at Supplements or wider in the tax administration's problem. Mr Stoffer asked about the in=terminal. What are the risks if it doesn't work? As Minister of Finance, of course, I deliberately took a risk there in the spring. The alternative would have been that I had all imposed a mandate on colleagues in the cabinet or had directly knocked money out of the pocket on the regular budget. I didn't think that was a sensible thing to do, and I'm sure it would have seriously distracted us from the problem of corona. So I thought I should take that risk. You can then see that you can't fully fill in that in=terminal with Navy Note. So that's what I'm gonna try to do with the final act. Of course, that has something of an emergency grip. Mr Stoffer could ask: what if he doesn't? I would have been unable to pay a part of the account, thereby violating the budgetary rules. That's, you could say, the consequence. But I thought this was justified, given the rather bizarre situation we are in. I also hope that I have always included the Chamber in this. I think I answered Mr Bruins' question about sustainability and discount rates at the very beginning. Mr Sneller asked what lessons I am taking with regard to culture and the ADR, and what I am going to do there. The aim of the research is to provide action perspectives to reverse the current culture. The two State Secretarys are working very hard on this, with all the excellent people who support them. As far as I am concerned, these action perspectives are helpful in further completing the ongoing pathways, such as the story and course of finance, and the Leadership and Culture programme, which is also specific to the Tax Administration. That is being done incredibly hard, and in my view well worked on. Mr Slootweg asked if we could look at arrangements for families with children abroad, and what lessons I could draw there. Within the research ibo Increases and the ibo Part-time work from 2020, current policies aimed at families with children are also well reviewed internationally. These have also been important input points for the Scenario Study Design Child Facilities and the Report Alternatives to the Supplementary Scheme, which the Cabinet sent to the Chamber this week. Mr Van Otterloo asked about the financial impact of the over-death rate on pension expenditure. The population forecast of the CBS has just come out. SZW is currently looking at the structural financial impact of this on AOW expenditure, if any. We will, of course, inform the Chamber about this. This is likely to be the case with the Spring Paper. I now find the notes on Mrs De Vries' DBFMO question in the wrong block. I already promised it. Mr Van Dijck asked about the increase in rents. What are we doing in the area of tenants who are financially stuck? I refer to what the cabinet said earlier: precisely in order to promote affordability for tenants, the rent increase has been limited to inflation plus 1% in the free and regulated sector. Furthermore, agreements have been made on rent reductions for expensive crooks. In addition, the package of measures for housing corporations announced on Prinsjesdag has a neutral to slightly positive impact on the investment capacity of the corporation sector. That also brings me to the end of the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u110	Thank you for the conciseness. Just a few short questions. Mrs de Vries, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u111	In my view, there is still a question about the care premium. I hope the Minister can still answer that. I think that is one of the most important questions, also politically. Yesterday we received the letter. When was the Minister first informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u112	I can understand your inconvenience in how you do that in the income framework. But a few things about that. That is the system used by this cabinet, which used the previous cabinet, which used the previous cabinet. So it's a system that we've been using for a long time. There's something uncomfortable about that. Mrs De Vries and others have sometimes felt that no matter what happens, you are always caught. I don't think that's entirely true, but I do get the feeling about that. It seems to me something relevant to take in the formation to see if that feeling exists so broad that you have to adjust that system. At the same time, there is something to be said for, because you want to do so in a prudent way. If you look at the entire revenue side, it's between 200 million and 220 million. What is further in the letter is that it became clear after all the pieces had been made up and that that is a strange time to fix that. I thought it wise to do that with the Navy's note, and with the windfall in the Sofina arrest, you come out relatively uncolored.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u113	Clear. Mrs De Vries: final, brief, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u114	We're gonna do this in almost three moments. Normally this kind of thing is repaired at the August decision-making, and now we're doing it at the Navy Note. The Study Group on Budgets says: do so on one point. I asked another question about that. When did the Minister know about this setback?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u115	I just answered that. Those pieces were all made. Then you can toss that whole thing right before Prince's Day. That's what I told you in that letter. At the same time, you always have to adapt that kind of thing, which has an impact on purchasing power. Then you'll have to do part of those August negotiations again. I think it's being repaired in a prudent way. What I cannot do is, in the aftermath of this cabinet, to change all the budgetary rules that we have aligned with the cabinet, the forming parties and many others in the Chamber who agree with the main thrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u116	Mr Van Otterloo: brief, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u117	It's about the CBS. I understand that the CBS report is available and public. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u118	I'll take that. At least I know that SZW is working on it and that we will have to look at the effects on that basis. We shall, of course, share that with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u119	If this is not discussed here until June next year in the spring paper, it seems to me to be a bit late. Can't it be sooner? Because it will also play a role in the cabinet negotiations if it cannot come sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u120	I get that. The numbers will only finally come to you in the Spring Note. However, I would like to assure Mr Van Otterloo that I am asking the Minister of SZW if an earlier moment can be found to simply make this information available. I just don't know exactly how long it takes him. I don't know exactly when that is: February, March, April?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u121	That's the privilege of sitting in the other block. I will come back to the point that the cabinet is not starting to spend money until Parliament has approved it. The Minister says "extreme restraint." But in the overview we have received, it says that 38 of the 50 occasional supplementary budgets have been said that we are going to do it in that case and that we are going to make use of that exception. The Minister said earlier that this was necessary at the beginning of the crisis. But twelve out of the last 13 cases, it's over again. My question is therefore for the Minister what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u122	We were all there in the past year, and see this debate as well. This debate, too, is, to a great extent, marked by the fact that I have already made a commitment to certain things, even before the Council of Ministers has finished. We've been in that movie with each other forever. Of course, I'm on the side of solidity. I want to do it nicely. But the cabinet has often been called by the Chamber to more than less urgency. We then tried to do that as neatly as possible. Each of these subjects was discussed here in the Chamber, even when there were few debates, in order to obtain the agreement of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u123	I believe that Parliament has always dealt with them fairly quickly. That exception is not always necessary. The Minister says he has consulted with the Court of Auditors. From this I conclude that he has confidence in the approving statement for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u124	That is not the case; of course the Court of Auditors will never undertake to do so. The Court of Auditors has indicated, in the regular consultations I have with the President, that we must try to ensure that we take the lessons of the previous crisis. Then you realize on the one hand that an unlawful act is simply an unlawful act. But on the other hand, anyone who looks inside from the outside sees that we don't operate under normal conditions. That's what it's been said about. But it can and must of course be the case that the Court of Auditors will soon be able to say completely independently whether it was good enough or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u125	But is there not yet any "in the first line of defense," as the Minister calls it, of, for example, the ADR, to assess whether that tolerance limit is exceeded? Or is that just something the minister hasn't been working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u126	We are, of course, trying to incorporate many of the lessons that the Court of Auditors has given us before and which we ourselves have learned from the previous crisis into our policy as well as possible. The Court of Auditors itself has presented a number of reports on this matter before. At the same time, the opinion is simply entirely up to the Court of Auditors. That is where we will have to weigh up what has happened in the field of unlawful acts. There we will also have to look more broadly at what has gone well and what has not gone well. That judgment is up to the Court of Auditors, and the Cabinet will have to answer for that judgment in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u127	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u128	So it's a cliff hanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u129	We'll keep it exciting. So much for the first term. Thanks to the Minister. Is there a need for a second term? You don't have to; just hold back. Many people already nod no, and we very much appreciate that. I am happy to give the floor to the first speaker. That is Mr Van Dijck from the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u130	Thank you, Mr President. As stated in the first term, the PVV is concerned about the number of bankruptcies that are coming towards us and about the companies with accumulated debts. As I said, banks initially provided generous loans and distributed payment breaks. The Tax Office has also postponed 15 billion in taxes. Hence my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many companies have been granted deferred payments and (bridging) credits in order to survive the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how these debts can be repaid without leading to unnecessary bankruptcies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u131	The Minister is talking about being able to repay you in three years, but if you calculate the tax deferral, I'm going to get to 15 billion dollars, that could be a lot of money a month. That can't be worn by companies. My next motion concerns the European Union's recovery fund and the 750 billion. The donations come with 13.5 from the Netherlands. Italy gets 5 billion, Spain gets 4 billion, Greece gets 1 billion, France gets 3 billion and Poland gets 1.5 billion under the Christmas tree of the Dutch taxpayer. The Minister can explain to me why this is good for the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Minister intends to transfer EUR 45 billion to Southern and Eastern European Member States;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from doing so and to use these billions in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u132	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion on solar panels. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Minister intends to transfer EUR 659 million to the European Commission for import duties on solar panels;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from doing so and to initiate judicial proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the European Commission for unjustified enrichment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On my side, there are no motions. In any case, thank you to the Minister for having indicated that he will ensure that this is reasonable when recovering from the various ministries towards the companies and that no more companies are going to fall down. Also thank you for the fact that there is the space to look at the tax aspects and the payback moments at that time, no matter how the corona crisis develops. I understand there will be another letter on Friday about the Minister's support packages. However, I would like to see at least the tax arrangements that are due to expire. I have mentioned, among other things, the cost of work, but also the travel costs and the usual wage. What we still find poignant is the situation of the entrepreneurs who started in January and February and who are simply not eligible for anything. So I'm gonna call on him to look at that again. The TONK scheme has already been mentioned. The Minister would return to the guarantee arrangements. Thank you for the letter on DBFMO; I will not repeat what that is the abbreviation of. However, I would like to call on the Minister to do everything in his power to ensure that he is not the prime minister of finance who would not soon be able to obtain a positive statement. So this is a call to that. Finally, there is the care premium. I think it's gonna be an ugly thing. We have talked about this a great many times and I hope he has also realised that this is not the best of the budgetary rules we have at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u134	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Slootweg from the group of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers to the questions. In particular, I would like to thank him for the answer with the commitments to look at the loans when we have the annual financial report or are included in it. At two points, I'd like to stand still a little longer. First of all, there are the failures. I welcome the commitment. The Minister said: that's what we're actually looking at in the spring note, if there's any kind of catch-up, because in 2020 you spent less on healthcare. Then we'll see if that's gonna be more. However, in general terms, we have had quite a lot of shifts in the cash statements. I don't know when the right time would be, but sometimes you miss the overall view. I have taken the point of concern and I think it would also be very logical to take a decision on that in the Spring paper, but there have been more shifts. I think it is a good thing that we get some sort of overall overview of that at the end. My final point. In any case, I have not quite heard this back in the reply. It's about this. In the third package of aid, 1.4 billion has been made available for retraining and further training. The Minister answered a number of questions about this, but my point was mainly about the development opinions. Who does it end up with? Because I would regret it if people in particular who are highly educated and know the way in which they have all filled in immediately, and that a group of MBOs, who are often more difficult to cope with when things are going badly, especially in a transition phase, at some point notice that the pot is empty. So I do not know whether it will be monitored whether the more vulnerable groups will be included in the labour market. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u136	Thank you. Then Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mr. Chairman. In the interrupting debate with me, the Minister had the need to correct something. I told the IRS not to push people over the edge. He said "it doesn't happen, or it shouldn't happen," but I've seen so many people in my personal environment as well as in the emergency services that we Socialist Party have in different communities who are being pushed into misery by government agencies. This is done by the Healthcare Institute, by the Tax Administration, by DUO, by the CJIB. It is precisely the government that often causes people's debts and misery. We really shouldn't trivialize that. That is fundamentally wrong. This needs to be addressed because everyone in the Netherlands is entitled to a fair government. I shall therefore begin by tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy),]] [[calls on the Government not to distinguish between entrepreneurs and households when it comes to the recovery of tax debts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u138	Mr. Chairman. Of course, it gets even worse when you see what amounts are often involved. It often starts with a late payment of a few hundred euros and then builds up. That's what pushes people into misery. On the other hand, there is 16 million in external hire to solve the compensation for this kind of misery. The Minister says that we should not make it bigger than it is; it would be bad if we had not. 16 million has been spent on the external hiring of consultants, lawyers and I don't know, while 18 million in compensation has gone to parents. That is completely unacceptable. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 16 million has been spent on external hire for compensation for victims of the surcharge affair;]] [[noting that 18 million had been paid in compensation for victims of the supplement;]] [[points out that it is totally unacceptable that almost as much money is spent on external hire as on compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u140	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Sneller of D66 who does not have his speaking time. Then there is Mr Nijboer, who never renounces his speaking time. That's not true, he says. Okay, for reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u141	Mr. Chairman. I have three more points. First of all, I asked the Minister about the job guarantee. Minister Koolmees has embraced it, but to what extent is it being used in practice, especially in view of the number of people who will be needed for vaccination and who will also be needed to guide the shopping malls? There really are opportunities for that. I think the cabinet should use it. The second point is the extra reward and appreciation for care workers. We simply have a fundamentally different view of this. The left-wing parties, the SP, GroenLinks and we, feel that the appreciation for care workers is insufficient. This also applies to the PVV. We believe that this appreciation should be increased and that it should be improved on a structural basis. The cabinet doesn't want that, but with the one-off or actually two-time extra rewards, the cabinet misses out. It has become a bit of a mess this year and for next year the cabinet is proposing the same mess again. I don't think that's wise, but there's already a motion for that, from the SP and the PvdA, I really don't think that's right. And GroenLinks, I hear Mr Alkaya say. The website was a bit out, so I couldn't find that motion. But that motion is already there, so I don't have to file it. Then there is the third and final point, Mr President. That's about the payroll companies. I agree with the Minister that, when the need is high, you simply have to come up with rough policies without working out everything exactly because you are late, but if you see that it is wrong, you must also intervene. The Minister himself referred to abuse as unacceptable, but I do not see much happening there. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for payroll companies to use the NOW scheme while the turnover loss is not related to the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to amend the NOW scheme as from 1 January, so that payroll companies with non-corona-related turnover losses no longer claim the NOW scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u143	Thank you. Then Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group. One second. We're gonna have to disinfect you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u144	I feel completely cleansed, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. There will be ideas on how to deal with discount rate and shelf life for the next formation. There will be an analysis of the risks of the loans currently granted, so that they can be mapped out. People are also starting to think about the wave of bankruptcies and unemployment rates from, say, the second quarter of next year. I would like to address the Minister once more about Viceroy Joseph, because this is the last debate of this Minister of Finance in the regular planning and control cycle of the cabinet in missionary status. I am grateful that this cabinet has been able to save for difficult times such as these, as Viceroy Joseph did in the seven fat years, on which seven lean years followed. But I also want to tell the minister that it didn't all start out well with Joseph, because it went wrong in his young years when he became the sweetheart and the brothers had to bow down to him. Before you know it, you'll be thrown down the well and sold as a slave to Egypt. This Minister does not want to do that, and we do not want to do that with him. So as a message, I want to give him the wisdom of Viceroy Joseph, for he remained faithful to his principles. He kept the eyes pointing up. He remained humble and counted his blessings every day. That is why I would like to point out to this Minister that, in the time that is to come, he will continue to pay particular attention to what really counts in the difficult time that is to come for him. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u145	Amen. I call Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u146	Mr. Chairman. In addition to my colleague Bruins, Joseph was viceroy. If I were Minister Hoekstra, I'd go for real Prime Minister and not Deputy Prime Minister. Anyway, that aside. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for all his answers to my questions. I liked most of them, but there was one where I think: well... that concerns those entrepreneurs, that diaconal fund, those start-ups that are everywhere outside. If I understood correctly, there was actually a bit of a reference to the TONK. But the TONK is about things in your household and not about your company itself. I liked the fact that Mrs De Vries also made a point of those start-ups who are out of everything. This includes, for example, entrepreneurs who have been taken over. I just heard about a 35-year-old company that was taken over at the beginning of this year. That company has three employees and falls out of everything. Hence a motion on the emergency fund. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many companies, entrepreneurs,zzp'ers and employees are financially supported through various support measures;]] [[whereas despite these generic measures, many entrepreneurs andzzp'ers unfortunately do not receive support because they do not meet the conditions for aid for a variety of reasons, whereas they do, for example, have large (turnover) losses;]] [[Whereas in many cases only a small financial contribution is sufficient to save companies from bankruptcy or to protect entrepreneurs (and their families) from major financial problems;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of setting up an emergency fund to allow entrepreneurs and employees outside all aid measures to receive a small financial contribution to support their business and, for example, to make use of the under-utilisation of the Scheme for agricultural and horticultural undertakings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u147	As you can see, I'm filing this motion alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u148	Go ahead. Thank you. It's lonely motion. In Christmas time, I find that a little moving. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group. Then we're gonna take a break and then we're gonna listen to the minister. I call Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the most important structural point. I am very looking forward to the note on future AOW expenditure. It is also important in these difficult times to finance the future expenditure that we have to do. That is a structural matter. We are talking a lot here today about incidental matters. My second point, which is an incidental one, concerns the windfall in the E-Health Home Stimulation Scheme. I have the next motion for a resolution on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the state of the corona crisis puts part of the population at a greater than average distance from the government and from the rest of society;]] [[noting that the absence of basic digital hardware such as a PC, tablet or smartphone for hundreds of thousands of households is an additional isolation compared to households where this hardware is available (a plethora);]] [[Whereas a "meevaller" on the E-Health Home Incentive Scheme of 38 million;]] [[calls on the government to immediately make available EUR 38 million to address digital hardware shortages in low-income households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u150	Finally, Mr President. As was said by the Romans that Carthage should be destroyed: all in that style I would like to conclude with a motion on the calculation rate. For 50PLUS also believes that the calculation rate in this context must have had its longest time and must be at least 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u151	That motion is in Latin, isn't it? I'll take that as a supposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u152	No, Mr. Chairman. I may be an alpha, but I didn't have any Latin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u153	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u154	Let's move on to the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas our funded pension system is much better equipped to withstand the economic storms of the corona crisis than the pay-as-you-go systems in other EU countries;]] [[Whereas an objective of the ECB's buy-back policy is to stimulate spending in the euro area;]] [[noting that the rules of the financial review framework (fk) undermine the intended functioning of the ECB's buy-back policy;]] [[calls on the Government to stop undermining the ECB's policy and to apply a higher accounting rate of at least 2% as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35650-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u155	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with a few more questions from the first term. I shall begin with an answer that I was still guilty of, Mrs De Vries, about the guarantee scheme. She asked about the exact figures. As of 30 October 2020, 1,000 KKC loans were granted for a total amount of 46 million according to the figures of the Dutch Association of Banks. Then there are around 4,600 BMB-C loans, a total of 883 million, and about 80 GOC-C loans for a total of 666 million. In particular, the KKC and that GOC still have a relatively low utilisation rate. And one of the things I didn't just memorize, but what's good to say, is that especially the NOW scheme, which was available later, made it impossible to use it in the end. But let me promise her, also to add that the cabinet was not and is not in an economical position, that I will ask the Minister and the Secretary of State for EZK how the ongoing consultations with the banks are going on on this point and whether we should take that up again. As for everything else in terms of support, it is true that we are once again looking at this at the moment. There are two other things I would like to say to Mrs De Vries. I don't know if we're sending that letter Friday. We have discussions in the Cabinet on Friday, but we will then, of course, inform the Chamber as soon as possible about what can go through and where we think we need to take an extra step. Then towards Mr Alkaya. I will come to his motion in a moment, but I would like to say in respect of postponement that there has been a delay in filing the declaration for people who are using assistance in making a declaration. In addition, there are, of course, different arrangements to maintain the incomes of citizens; he knows that. But I will respond to his motion in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps a brief reflection on Mrs De Vries and Mr Bruins on the solar panels and the difference of opinion. I think they've both been asking about that. These are solar panels sent from Malaysia or Taiwan. Anti-dumping duties, countervailing duties and traditional own resources were due for this. The Commission considers that these duties are also due on imports of solar cells originating in Malaysia and Taiwan and subsequently assembled into solar panels in other third countries such as Mexico, India and Vietnam. According to the Netherlands, these traditional own resources are not due on these solar panels because they were legally shipped from the country where the assembly took place, such as Mexico, India and Vietnam, and therefore not from the country where the solar cells originally came from, namely Malaysia or Taiwan. That's basically the fraternity we have. And we really think that we are right here, because you often have this kind of problem on your hands and let me put it this way: the Dutch main rule seems to follow. But first we're going to try to solve that in dialogue and harmony. If that is not possible, we will have to consider whether we are converting this constructive dialogue into a procedure. Then Mr Bruins asked about the NPLs: how am I at risk? That's the same question I left behind. I informed the Chamber on 20 November about the position of banks and also about the risk reduction. And what is good to mark again, is that in everything we really do generously and whatever the banks have done generously, fortunately there is no cause for concern whatsoever, I say, chatting up the President of De Nederlandsche Bank but that there are no guarantees either. It is therefore extremely important, also for us here, to ensure that we do not get caught up in the rain and by putting so much pressure on the banks then gets a banking problem. Moreover, my concern is not so much about the Netherlands as about banks in other Member States. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one last point which is simply part of the comments. Then I come to the amendments and the motions. I would like to thank Mr Bruins very much for his final set of comments on King Joseph. I have the feeling that I may have neglected it a little in the last nine months, but I think that Mr Bruins can forgive me. Then I have a few amendments. The first amendment is by Mr Nijboer. Mr Nijboer has an amendment and also a motion on the same subject. Let me say something about both. I shall begin by highlighting once again that, in the debate on 9 December, perhaps Mr Nijboer himself was there as well as Mr SZW's Minister, who said that it is not possible at the moment to say that there is improper use and that, if the scheme gives entitlement to support from the NOW, this aid cannot be recovered. He has promised to the Chamber that he wants to talk to these organizations to make arrangements with them. I think that consultation should take place. I think Mr Nijboer will agree that if there is no legal title, you cannot turn your sense of discomfort into recovery. In that light, I must advise against the amendment. Then there's an amendment from the SP on the teacher's scholarship. I have to advise against that, too. With this, Mr Alkaya is covering an intensification from a windfall. In addition, the amendment provides for coverage for 2021, but not for subsequent years. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. Mr Van Dijck's motion for a resolution I should like to say that I do not think it is right for me to say that we have a whole range of instruments in place for this. I do not see what this motion specifically adds. The motion in part No. 4. on European funds, I must also advise against. We have just agreed on this in Europe. The same applies to the motion in part No. 5. There are things in it that the cabinet cannot agree to. We really believe that a judicial procedure should be preceded by a constructive dialogue. We do not think that the figure of unjustified enrichment in bicycles is wise either. Then there is the motion by Mr Alkaya, Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer on no distinction. I have some sympathy for something of the idea in that motion, but I think it is important to take a slightly different course. There are no signals, I have just had it checked, too, that this would play on a large scale with the Tax Administration, when paying citizens. Citizens are entitled to delay payment under the regular rules. That regular delay for citizens is not going to happen at the Tax Office. So even the present, normal instruments are not exhausted, despite corona. That makes me want to discourage the motion, although I have sympathy for the thought. Then the motion to part No. 7. I really understand Mr Alkaya's frustration about the speed of payment in the supplementing affair. But this also has something of two things to put together that actually have nothing to do with each other. The Secretary of State and the Ministry's supplement try to pay this as well, as carefully and as quickly as possible. This is now being costed, precisely because we have started to deal with complex issues. So I want the motion in part no. Seven is not recommended, but I understand the notice of haste. Then the motion to part No. 8 by Mr Nijboer. The same is true of the amendment. I leave it to Mr Nijboer to wait until the Minister of SZW has finished talking to the sector. Then he could hold the motion in that case. But if he's filing the motion with the text as it stands, I have to dissuade her. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 9, by Mr Stoffer. I also have sympathy for the intention, but I would like to point out once again that the cabinet is really not childish in all the arrangements it makes available. As I have done to Mrs De Vries, I really want to promise him that we will do a close check on what we have and the problems we are experiencing. A piece of the hole is really caught by the TONK. That is a different piece from what Mr Stoffer means by the way. So I really want to promise him that we'll do that shutdown check to the full. However, I fear that another separate pot for all other cases is not the shortest way to achieve the goal, also listening to what, for example, the SZW Minister said earlier about companies that can still knock because they are actually excluded from the NOW because of unreasonable grounds. I say this on top of last week's statements by the SZW Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs about the start-ups, because of which they have, of course, also indicated what they are trying to do there, but also what the limits of the possibilities you are running into are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u157	I'm gonna give it a shot anyway. Indeed, we agree that there are entrepreneurs who are just falling in between because of start-ups and so on. If I change the motion so much that I'm making it a close-knit analysis, is the Minister prepared to see if we can reverse the motion in such a way that that judgment can still be given to Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u158	There's quite a lot in it, so that does require a rather thorough remodeling of the motion. So Mr Stoffer would call on me, either on a motion or in the debate, to look closely over the next few days, to ensure that the cabinet does everything it can to ensure that sectors do not fall apart, then I would like to give him my word. But this really assumes something else, namely a kind of new game, as I understand it, with also a specific coverage. I don't know if you're gonna end up with a bike if you're trying to remodel this car.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u159	I'm willing to end up with a bike, so I'm gonna take up the challenge of building her bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u160	"Bilteral conversion," does that mean that we will also get another motion from you? Mr. Stoffer? Hello? Mr. Stoffer! Hello, hello! Mr. Stoffer, I'm sorry to get you out of your conversation, but we're getting a new motion from you? That's what I'd like to hear from you before reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u161	Yeah, there's gonna be a modified motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u162	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u163	I'm sure the word "bilateral conversion" will come back on a list of languages. I think I am at the motion in part No. 10 by Mr Van Otterloo. I have to advise against it, because in substance that would really be something you should take a closer look at. I think there's something to be done. Here too, we are going to use a windfall for new policies, so I must discourage them. As regards the motion in part No. 11 I fear that I will not be able to fully bridge the differences of opinion with regard to the ECB and at all with regard to the pension policy between the Cabinet and the 50PLUS Group in this last missionary Navy note of this cabinet. So I'm sorry, but I'm also going to have to discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u164	Well! Cato was finally right, but my comment concerns the motion in part No. 10. It's a one-time issue. It's a surplus. It is not about new policies, it is about using a one-off 38 million available for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u165	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u166	The comment was: this is new policy. We are in favour of using it. I have also indicated that there are other jars for old policy, where it can then be added to ensure that it gets a wider reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u167	I recognize what was said about Cato. I also recognise and acknowledge that this is not about structural new policies, but it is still new ones. Then the cabinet has something to say about that. Of this, the cabinet believes that there is still something to be done, however much I can imagine from the political conviction of Mr Van Otterloo in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u168	Thank you. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u169	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members very much for indeed, as many have reminded us, the last time we, at least in missionary terms, discuss the various aspects of the national budget. Last year there was a lot to say about this, but this was of course an exceptional year. I would like to thank the members of your committee once again for the exchanges of views and for all the comments and suggestions made to the cabinet and myself personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-5.u170	Thank you. We shall then vote tomorrow on the supplementary budget in conjunction with this autumn budget, on the amendments and on the motions for resolutions. Thank you very much to the Minister of Finance for his presence today. I shall suspend for a few moments, and then we shall proceed with the next debate.
