ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science (35570-VIII). Today we have the first term on the side of the Chamber. I would, of course, like to welcome the spokesmen. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u2	I do not really want to limit the number of interruptions, but I reserve the right to intervene when someone interrupts too often, for example with each sentence. Try to listen to each other as closely as possible and ask questions where necessary. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u3	Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget discussion of these two ministers for the March elections. So it's time to take stock. Time to determine what these ministers of Christian Union and D66 have brought to education. This is the legacy they're leaving behind. Education is in a free fall. The Party for Freedom recognised first and only that there is a systemic crisis. We didn't say that lightly, and if you put the facts together, there's no denying it. What are these facts? The level of knowledge has fallen dramatically among the three Rutte Cabinets. Even students and novice teachers are hardly able to write Dutch without error. Many don't even control the basic rules of math anymore. The most serious consequence is that 24% of 15-year-olds are low-literate. This means, for example, that they are unable to understand a simple painting instruction for a house painter. The fact that almost a quarter of children are semi-an illiterate is an absolute disgrace to a western country where reading skills are an absolute necessity to develop as a citizen. All these people will face a difficult life, in which they will hardly be able to make their dreams come true, to realize their pursuit or happiness. Without reading skills, a dime won't make you a quarter. I would like a response from the Minister to this observation. How could you let this happen? Mr. Chairman. The second educational disaster that has occurred under the Rutte Cabinets is the shortage of teachers. The profession of teacher has become incredibly unattractive. Was the teacher ever a self-conscious pedagogue that gave autonomous form to the educational path of the pupils, now he is a performer of irresponsible teaching models that are forced upon him by managers who have barely stood in front of the class and are guided by one education hype after another. Explaining something to a class, instructing, ordering and testing are prohibited in many forms of education. They have been replaced by students in large halls where they have to work on a so-called personalized journey alone behind their PC. At ROC Nijmegen we saw where that leads. One teacher who is supposed to keep order in a room where the students behind their PC do everything but work on their assignments. When are we gonna get another class? That is the desperate question they are asking. But teaching should no longer be taught by those bread prophets of the new learning. A teacher who wrote a critical book about it was even fired; fired at a time of a screaming shortage of teachers. No wonder people don't want a job as a teacher anymore. If you are demoted as a teacher as an instructor or even a babysitter, you will do something different with your life, especially if you are fired at the very first critical sound. Will the Minister comment on this, and specifically on this Nijmegen example of extremely poor employership, which frustrates all attempts to combat the shortage of teachers? Mr. Chairman. Another reason why young ambitious people no longer opt for education is the multicultural drama that manifests itself in education. This disastrous consequence of the policy of open borders causes the teachers' shortage to be the most acute in the big cities. With a student population of about 180 different nationalities, it is impossible to achieve rest, regularity, structure and safety; all factors that are indispensable for sound education. Fights, fights, intimidation, hatred, backwardness and crime require schools to spend too much energy on side issues such as mediation, debt restructuring, parole and youth care. The problem is that all these things are not a core task of schools and teachers are not trained to be a social worker. They want to teach, but they can't do that anymore. In the meantime, the lack of teachers has gotten so out of hand that this government has chosen to put unauthorized teachers in the classroom under the motto: rather someone for the classroom than no one. But we're not there yet. Instead of learning from all the failures which were all educational innovations, we are continuing with great speed. This sick drive for innovation in education is now characterised by an empty concept of "21st century skills." They will soon become practice with the next educational renewal, Curriculum.nu. As a result, the quality of education will fall even further. Many parents and teachers have never heard of Curriculum.nu. Nevertheless, the same thing is likely to happen 21 years ago when the disastrous second phase of secondary education was introduced. Curriculum.now slurps away money and energy, already, and will cause even more unrest and workload among teachers. It is refreshing to renew, and especially in view of the declining learning performance, which means that more people are added to each year with a linguistic and computational disadvantage, this educational renewal is extremely undesirable. But this minister, who was a teacher himself, continues tirelessly. After the PVV, SP and 50PLUS, all parties continue with this next disruptive innovation. On 1 June 2016, I filed a motion to stop this renewal, which was then still called Education2032. Only SP and 50PLUS supported. On Thursday, I will come forward with a new motion and give the other parties a second chance. I hope they'll use it wisely. Mr. Chairman. The PVV doesn't want any more innovations. We are in favour of aging education rather than renewing it. What's that look like? Well, this is the education we strive for: back to the basics of education, transferring knowledge and skills in small-scale schools where students are known, with regularity, tranquility, structure, safety and discipline, with direct instruction also instead of self-discovered learning. We want knowledge and skills to be transferred by a professional teacher in a classroom where they explain, where assignments are made and controlled, and where the scholar is evaluated in the form of a classroom interview or test. That's how you prepare kids for the future. Mr. Chairman. We would therefore like to do so with teachers who express themselves neutrally and focus on their profession rather than on their own political preferences. In the meantime, climate religion has corrupted our education in such a way that students want to skimp on climate class. It cannot be the case that all kinds of unrealistic fears are poured out on the children, for example that we have only twelve years to live before the earth ends or that white children carry slavery with them as the new inheritance sin and learn to hate themselves and their own culture. It can't be that a cabinet encourages indoctrination by students. It cannot be the case that left-wing propaganda on Islam, climate, Black Piet, Black Lives Matter and the European Union's so-called salvation state gets into children's heads through textbooks. The Party for Freedom says: teach children and students not what to think, but teach them how to think. Higher education in particular has to do with a monoculture of equal opinions that have turned universities into broinest of left-wing activism and globalist thinking. Because they have embraced the identity politicians from the United States under the direction of this D66 minister, they split society into white and black, left and right, man and woman. They turn the population against each other instead of engaging in knowledge and science and bringing emancipation, upliftment, happiness and prosperity. I invite both ministers to respond to this. It is a subject that concerns the voters of the PVV, the second party of the country, the leader of the opposition. In addition, universities are public institutions that operate as real companies. They increasingly exist by the grace of as many foreign students as possible to whom they make a lot of money. Those foreign students supplant our Dutch students from the lecture halls and the housing market. The wave of internationalisation also causes Dutch to disappear even as a language of teaching at the universities. The PVV finds that unacceptable. Universities financed by Dutch tax money have the primary duty to provide education for Dutch taxpayers and in Dutch, with responsible exceptions. The corona crisis has shown that there are universities which, without the registration of foreign students, come into financial difficulties and therefore have no real right to exist, driven from the perspective of those who finance the universities, namely the Dutch taxpayer. I would also like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Between the years 2000 and 2015, Education expenditure increased from 19 billion to 37 billion. That is a huge increase, which has not led to better education, quite the contrary. More and more calls are being made for more money, but the euros disappear into the bottomless pit of the organisations themselves, in real estate, management, administration and accounting reserves. This could be done by the lumpsumsystematiek, which moved the ownership of the education from the parents and politics to the domes, the employers' domes. As a result, the extra funds do not enter the classrooms or the lecture halls. Because that's where the money is distributed: in that thick layer of councils, boards, officials and educational innovators. We will therefore table a motion again to at least assess the teacher's salaries in the lump sum, because in our view that is the only way to get some direction about education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u4	Before you continue, Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u5	I have one more paragraph, Mr. Chairman. Do you want me to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u6	That's fine. Is that all right as far as you're concerned, Mr. Van den Berge? Yeah, it's okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u7	Mr. Chairman. So this is the legacy of these ministers: a wailing lack of teachers, a quarter of pupils semi-an illiterate after eight years of primary and three years of secondary education, the universities as broines of left-wing activism, where freedom of expression and the free practice of science has been replaced by disruptive identity politics and the private diversity Shobbies of this minister. Even a legal instrument to close Islamic educational institutions, where discrimination against women, Jews, lhbtis and faith leavers is taught, was not included. It's an inheritance to be ashamed of. As far as we are concerned, it is high time for elections. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u8	The PVV is here discussing identity policy. According to this, there is only one party here, along with the Forum for Democracy perhaps, that is working on identity policy. Your party leader had another tweet last Sunday in which people with a migration background are removed. What is your message to all those nurses, all those MBO and HBO-educated with a migration background who are currently working hard in health care? In my opinion, the PVV here, together with the Forum for Democracy, is the only one doing identity policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u9	GroenLinks' colleague starts by saying that I am "standing to ordain'. What the hell am I talking about? I'm just keeping a story, a very consistent story, that I've been keeping here for ten years, because education goes to the gallemies. It's a very consistent story. And then you're gonna accuse me of obsessing? That identity policy is gonna confuse you a lot. What my party chairman has done is to observe a fact. These ic's are full of non-Western immigrants who have not complied with the rules and who are still, fourth generation, third generation, Dutch are not powerful. Examples have been given by the NIS, by your NIS, which you are so excited about. The NOS has broadcast a video of a district where mainly Turks live who have not complied in any way with the corona measures. When did that change? When Mr. Erdogan had a broadcast in Turkey, which, of course, they had all seen. Suddenly it was true. I mean, my party chairman finds facts. You are confusing facts at the moment with that vilest identity policy that your minister, who sits there... She may be from D66, but GroenLinks and D66, that's all a bit the same, of course. I'm talking about the identity policy that has to reverse all these statues, which raises fake scientists like Mrs. Gloria Alkker on stage at the University of Amsterdam and makes every school... Now the University of Maastricht has announced that they are going to "decolonize" the curriculum. That's identity policy. You know exactly what that is. That identity policy is pursued by your friends, by your violent antifas in the United States, the afas here in the Netherlands and all the left-wing scum that is running around here. So please stop your weird jokes here that make no sense at all. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u10	Well, I'm not. Let me start by saying that I find it very uncomfortable that people here are called by name who cannot defend themselves here. But now back to the content. Because the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u11	Who am I calling?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u12	No, no, I'm just making my point. The PVV, yes, appeals to people here in their ethnic background, and that is what the PVV constantly does. I do not hear your party leader talking about all those nurses on the ICUs with a migration background who work hard there. Then the PVV can do that with: yes, the minister has joined GroenLinks, the NOS journalists are members of GroenLinks and judges. Well, we've heard of that little wiggle, but answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u13	And your question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u14	What is your message to all those practically trained people who work hard on the ICUs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u15	I am delighted with all those practically trained, caring nurses who work there of whatever ethnicity. Because, Mr. Van den Berge, we don't think in terms of ethnicity. But it's a fact... If you deny that, as you always deny anything that's uncomfortable... It is those ethnic groups that keep those big weddings where no 1.5 meters....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You are very indignant to do your GroenLinks story here. I hope all voters have seen it; that might be good for your place on the list. But stop it. Don't be so childish. We're having an adult debate here, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u16	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u17	Yeah, finally. The PVV, Mr Bertema....................................................................................................................................................................................................... First he says...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u18	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u19	First, you say we don't look at ethnicity. And then you start profiling people ethnically. You say: well, it is those people from those groups who are responsible for this and that. You do that all the time. I'm really done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u20	Yes, and it's convenient to speak through the chairman. Anyway, it's really...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u21	Mr. Van den Berge, just to remind you. I remember very well that all these students were, for example, the culprit. It was the students' fault that all these infections suddenly came to light. They got blamed very easily. Were you also here to orientate, isn't that what you're saying? To explain here that that's bullshit, that you can't profile students? Bullshit. You have a lot to learn, Mr. Van den Berge. But you might. Although, I have my doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u22	Now I am confused, because I saw Mr Paternotte, but I also see Mr Van Meenen. Who on behalf of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u23	Oh, it's a game.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u24	You saw Mr Paternotte, not me. That's why I made this mistake. I can usually see it. But if he's behind me, I don't see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u25	Yeah, he was right behind you. That's right. Now what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u26	Although I'm a math teacher, I have no eyes in the back of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u27	No, I understand that, but what's the next step?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u28	Well, I'll do the first question and he'll do the second. Let's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u29	No, one of you two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u30	No? Okay. So I do not know what Mr Paternotte wanted to talk to Mr Beertema about, but I really want to talk about the PVV election programme. This is the ninth time we've been through this together. Mr Beertema knows: as he hardly agrees with me, I always find it very difficult to agree with him, especially when he strays back to ethnicity and you name it all. We've had enough of that. We can still find each other when it comes to concerns about the curriculum, about reading skills and about arithmetic. That's where we're gonna stick together. Anyway, I'm gonna take a little distance from that. My question is as follows. My party published the election program. That's what we want. It's what we want. In the PVV election programs as I've experienced them in the time I'm here in the Chamber, there's not a word about education. The last election programme was an A4'; there was no mention of the word education. My question is: what is the PVV going to promise the electorate in the field of education? What can we expect from Mr Beertema's story that is going to land in the election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u31	Nevertheless, I always find that a bit disappointing from Mr. Van Meenen. I've got him high up. He himself says that he has listened to my budget treatment nine times. Nine times I have indicated what the PVV wants with education. I just did it, six pages. Is that gonna go all the way through you? This is what we want with education. We want to return to the basis of knowledge. We want to go back to small-scale schools. We want to get rid of these domes and those officials, of which there are quite a few D66 voters. The fact is that I have been trying to explain here for years that you are not in charge of education, not me, but not these two rulers either. And how did that happen? Because we have been so stupid to create that lumpsum system, so that all the control over education has ended up with the usual suspects, which you also know very well: the domes, all those organizations that decide for themselves what happens... How many times have I not said that here? That started with Minister Marja van Bijsterveldt, who had to say to me so often: sorry, Mr Beertema, that is not our concern. No! Minister Slob and Minister Van Engelshoven are not about anything either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u32	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u33	They look after the store a little bit and the education policy is determined by all those domes and the officials. That's too scandalous for words, because, Mr. Van Meenen, education is failing. Even you can't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u34	But that is why I also make proposals, and my party also makes proposals in the election programme, for example to send the money directly to schools. We've talked about that before. I think the PVV supports that, too. But I'm curious now. Of course, I stand here for the ninth time listening to Mr Beertema's budget debate, but the last time I read something about education in his election programme was in 2012. Then it said: the classes need to grow and therefore a billion savings can be made. If it were a consistent story, Mr Beertema would not argue here for small-scale education and all kinds of wonderful things such as the closing of pay gaps. If Mr Beertema really wants to achieve that, he should speak to his party leader and say: "Oh, now you have to put some in that election programme; then you have to make sure that we also make it happen for once." So my question to Mr Beertema is once again: what can the people at home, the people in education who are watching this, expect from Mr Beertema and his party in the election programme? What are we all gonna see of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u35	The interruptions must be short and the answers must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u36	I'd almost start over...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u37	Well, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u38	... because Mr Van Meenen didn't listen. For example, we will be the first to stop educational renewals. Those domes with their force majeure and all those organizations that are in charge of education, we will clean up. We want the direction back with the parents, with the House of Representatives, with the rulers. Then you have direction on education. Then you can send things. We can't do that anymore, Mr. Van Meenen, neither can you. All that extra money that is now disappearing, how many debates have we had about that? Hundreds of millions, who were nowhere to be found, who had been pummeled by benevolent rulers, have completely disappeared into a bottomless pit of all those organizations. That is an absolute scandal. We don't want any more education renewals. We want to get rid of these evil identity politicians, who just disrupt things and turn people against each other. We want to go back to, for example, the direct method by which your students learn something, to safety, to discipline, to small scale, to tranquility, to structure. If that's not enough, then I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u40	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u41	I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u42	Mr. Chairman. We've been on it for three years, Rutte III. It is the last budget before we enter the elections and hopefully take further steps in the field of education. Over the past few years, we have been able to make substantial investments in education: extra money for teachers' salaries, extra money to reduce workload, to attract additional teachers, to guide new teachers, to eliminate children's learning disadvantages, to give children more equal opportunities, to tackle lags specifically through corona, to improve ventilation in schools and to better support gifted children. But Corona's been ruining the entire education since March. We saw in spring how quickly education came up with solutions to provide children with home education in the unreal situation that they could no longer go to school. This worked out better at one school than at the other, and one teacher could handle this better than the other. But I have said it before: we have greatly appreciated this commitment. I have seen closely how my daughter Bente's school adapted to the new reality as much as possible and made every effort not to allow any delays to arise. Because more than ever, it came down to the home situation, which is different for everyone. One parent had time, space, resources and knowledge to support children, but part of the parents didn't. These children have so many negative effects that I hope with all my heart that we will never have to close the schools again and go back to home education. That is why I am glad that even now schools are making every effort to make up for these delays as quickly as possible. This shows, for example, the massive enrolment at the autumn schools. I therefore support the additional support which this cabinet once again supports, so that we do not have to draw out which child this additional support does receive and which child does not. What I will not miss in any case is the kindergarten meetings with 27 kindergarten children, at least as many parents and a few watching grandmothers and grandmothers who had inexplicably also received the password of the meeting. That's gonna cause complete chaos. If anything's pressure-raising, that's it. Last week we discussed education a little more broadly in a general discussion. For the VVD, it is conceivable in the coming years that we will intervene in the system we have. We really have to ask ourselves whether the system of five days a week, five to six hours a day in the same building and the same place, where a very extensive curriculum is treated, is best suited to the society in which we now live, with children from the age of four going through education at the same rate. Until you're 11, you're gonna get a test, you're gonna get advice, and you're gonna get to go to another building for years, five days a week, six to eight hours a day. Unless you're allowed to go to vocational training, at least you'll get to work. In my opinion, this society requires something else: flexibility, higher basic quality and more space for individual development, profiling and deepening. An image in which a school in the core curriculum guarantees a higher basic quality and a few days in the week full of commitment. Because with numbers that show a decline in reading and computing skills of our children, this is the main priority for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u43	I don't know how your speech was built.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u44	It's gonna be a while before I get to the end of this piece. So I'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u45	Yeah? Yeah, I'd do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u46	The space that remains per student can be used for the profiling and deepening of other subjects. In doing so, the school could be much more at the centre of local society, by working much more together with art, culture, theatre, music, dance and sport, as well as companies and civil society organisations. You could almost speak of a rich school day, and teachers don't have to deal with parts outside the curriculum. The quality of the core curriculum is not negotiable. We need great teachers for that. In primary education, this is likely to mean that pupils spend most of their time on basic skills, and in secondary education there will be more room for other subjects and skills. We are moving towards a system that is not so rigorous as to allow children from exactly 4 years of age to go to school and go through education at the same rate as the rest of the class, and then to follow a locked course in the most differentiated education system in the world. We choose customization. Why don't we look at a flexible influx at the bottom, a level system where schools and computational lessons are scheduled at the same time in the same time in.which is much easier.a core curriculum, so that children can go from group to group at their own pace and for example with a portfolio and not be forced to wait for another year? Or in heels over the ditch, when they're actually not ready yet? With such a portfolio, there is no need for a hard transition to secondary education. You follow the portfolio until you use the route of choice as a secondary profession, higher professional or scientific. By doing so, we prevent all those children who are late bloomers from having to follow such a compulsory route at the age of 11. And we help children who go faster, because they can follow the portfolio at their own pace. We support children who need extra help with this. In the end, it's about every child blossoming at his or her own pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u47	Yeah? Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u48	Who just walked at his pace to the interrupting microphone. There are a lot of questions I would like to ask Mr Heerema, but let me start with this. He just said in a subtlety: this is the biggest problem of our education. He talked about the flexible influx, the flexibility, the personal portfolios and all that stuff. Apart from the fact that I think he really makes an incredible parody of what elementary school looks like, I would like to ask him: according to the VVD at the moment, is that really the biggest problem in our education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u49	The main problem in education is that there is too little attention to the key subjects of reading, writing and arithmetic. Because of the way in which we have designed education at the moment, we cannot pay enough attention to it, because such a week is simply full of the curriculum as we have built it. When you pay much more attention to the core subjects, I think that on that basis you can give much more quality and get much more results from the most important subjects that children need in order to be able to make a next step in their social careers. You will have to pay much more attention to that in primary school, so there will be less space to do something other than the main courses to be able to flow through. But in secondary education you will be able to create more space for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u50	I don't think that's the biggest problem in education. Mr. Heerema says: the core subjects at primary school, in primary school, are actually pushed away by all the other things that are in the curriculum. I've looked at that curriculum and it's pretty far-reaching for this. My firm conviction is that the overloading in schools is due more to the extra teaching packages, the projects and the additional things. A personalised offer takes a lot of time and extra guidance. What are the things that according to the VVD are now in the primary school curriculum that prevent children from learning how to read, calculate and write properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u51	This is particularly true of the points made by Mr Kwint: the projects that are being carried out next to them. In my opinion, the core curriculum should be that children read, write, count and speak at a higher level. World orientation I am just saying what we need to do to a lesser extent, because we will be able to do so later, spread over other years. It's my job to make sure that you get the basics in order that are important to get through education and that you don't start paying attention to other subjects until then. They're needed, too, but later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u52	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u53	Yeah, definitely closing up. This is a very important point. This is the argument on which the entire Curriculum.nu journey is built. "The curriculum is overloaded and we have to do something about it." That was a pearl of this minister's VVD predecessor. My thesis is that the curriculum isn't overloaded at all. There might be something to it and some can be done, but it's the things that schools are going to do for themselves that make this happen. It is the desire to arrange a total personalised learning programme for 31 students in the classroom who ensure that teachers no longer receive their work. You are proposing a reduction in the curriculum as a solution, while the problem is not there, to allow for more personalised learning, where the problem is to a large extent related to workload. Aren't you putting the horse behind the cart?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u54	No, because then you keep thinking in the graduation system, that you have in a class 31, 30 or 23 children who all have to be accompanied in the same way. What matters to me is that instead of roasting a class or group in a schematic, you schedule a level, so that children, at the time they are done with level 3, themselves flow to level 4, because it is given at the same time. The moment you look at education like that, you can take steps to help children, without being in a high school class, to go through education at their own pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u55	The biggest problem with education is that the largest government party is structurally refusing to invest in education. Mr Heerema's introduction alone is not correct. The backlogs have not been eliminated, but increased. The odds have increased. Working on better ventilation in schools has to do with the fact that there is a corona crisis and the Minister who fortunately took advantage of it to ensure that extra money is available for ventilation. I would like to ask Mr Heerema the following. If he says that the core curriculum is not negotiable and must be of good quality, will the VVD ensure that investment in education is made in the next government period? And are you going to ensure that teachers do have the time to teach children who are of good quality and what we are waiting for together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u56	In my second sentence, I have said that we can hopefully take further steps in the field of education in the next period as well. Then I listed a whole list of things in education that we have invested in in recent years. Last week, in general consultation, the Minister also indicated that 1 billion structural and 1 billion occasional investments were made during this period in basic education alone. So I think it is a little faint to say that nothing has been invested and we hope to meet you next time at our side. What matters to me is that we have to change the order. First we have to look at the question "how do we want to shape education and what can work better for children?" And then we have to see if the resources we have are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u57	For the record, I have never said that this cabinet does not invest in education. I've always said this cabinet invests, but not enough. But the fact that the cabinet invests in it is more in spite of the VVD, because that party always fails to include investment in education in its electoral programme. I would like to ask whether this might change next time, so that we can get more air in education, that teachers have more time, that teachers' shortages will be resolved in the next period, hopefully that they will succeed and that we can, above all, ensure that increasing inequality of opportunity is reduced. The latter is one of the biggest problems, including in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u58	Our election program isn't ready yet. I just indicated that at least there's a sequence in it for me. I hope that our programme committee will also listen very carefully to my input today and that I will see some of that in our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u59	Then I will go to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u60	I just heard Mr. Heerema say that Corona is ruining our education. I think Corona has exposed existing problems in our education. I think one of the biggest problems in our education is the increasing inequality of opportunity. I totally agree with Mrs Westerveld. I also heard Mr Heerema say: there are differences; in this distance learning some children can come with a lot easier than others. What does Mr Heerema think we should do about that? Or should we accept that, and is it the case that this inequality of opportunity is increasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u61	It is a definite fact that every child has a different home situation and gets something else from home. One home situation is better than the other. Nor can we intervene in all these families from The Hague to make that better. We can ensure, for example, that the digital means are in order for families, so that children can also participate in this home situation. I think we did. With my statement that Corona messed things up, I'm referring to the fact that kids just came home. The whole of the Netherlands was at home. That, of course, requires a completely different form of education. That's different from the problems that were already there. Did Corona expose those problems extra? On the one hand, it is. On the other hand, Corona has made things even worse, because especially for children who benefit most from going to school to learn more than they can at home, that safe environment fell away. From The Hague, we can then try to intervene with all kinds of corona measures. In some parts we have done so and in some parts we have failed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u62	The latter seems like an understatement. If you take the latest results and the latest tests, you'll see that the odds increase. Your zip code predicts more and more often and increasingly your chances of flowing in one go or getting good school advice, the type of school you go to, who you meet there, and even if you have a qualified teacher in front of the class there. In order to solve these problems, you will not make one-off investments in eliminating backlogs. This calls for structural investment in equality of opportunity. McKinsey underlined it, the PISA report endorses it: structuralally more is needed to ensure equal opportunities. What will the VVD do about it? Or does the VVD accept that your zip code predicts your success at school?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u63	Opportunity equality is due, among other things, to ensuring that the basis of a child is as organized as possible in order to have a good social career and to be able to flow through education. As far as I am concerned, we are not doing enough. I'd like to deal with that in another period. If we need more money, we will look at it. That is why I am so curious about the outcome of the Minister's commitment to look at such an alternative system rather than the annual system. If it shows that something is needed, then we just have to talk about it next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u64	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u65	We see in Rotterdam, for example, that the schools with relatively the majority of children at risk of disadvantage have the smallest chance to have a qualified teacher in front of the classroom. The lack of teachers is unfairly distributed. Does Mr Heerema agree with me that, in order to promote fair opportunities, we should invest unfairly? That we should invest unevenly for equal opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u66	To be honest, it only makes sense for you to see where a euro can be most effective. And if it were necessary to invest in places where a euro could yield more, for example in the neighbourhoods you are talking about, then I am certainly prepared to look into that. But I think I have said this before, not in this Chamber but in one of the smaller halls above.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u67	I hope that Mr Heerema will be as proud of the investments in the VVD's election programme as he is of the investments of this cabinet. I hear him talking about opportunities for children and about a very good basic curriculum, and then in one breath I hear him describing the year-class system as the enemy of the best odds. That raises two questions for me. One. Does Mr Heerema actually see what is already happening in primary education in this area of opportunity? And two. I also said it last week in the AO: doesn't the VVD actually advocate much earlier selection here, while already one of the biggest problems of Dutch education that is early selection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u68	I had the impression that I was not able to finish this with Mr Van Meenen last week. I think he had the impression that we are going to select at a younger age whether a child is involved with vwo or with havo or with vmbo, so we already want to select at a young age on a level. Then maybe level isn't a well-chosen word, but that's what I mean. I think we should look at how children can go through education at their own pace by going from one level to another. So it is not so much a question of keeping children of the same level together, but of ensuring that children can go through education at their own pace. From the system of years, the class system, I am less and less in favour of seeing how our society, our society, has changed and what is happening in schools at the moment, with all the good examples that are of course there. Children go to school and spend a few hours a day in the same building and the same place, while so much more is happening in society where we could also adapt that education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u69	In my view, Mr Heerema is completely ignoring the reality in many schools, namely that there is no longer a system of annual classes at all. Take a look at a jenaplan school or a montessori school or at all kinds of other schools that are already really looking at who the child is and what it can do. In the words of Mr Heerema, I listen very much to the fact that we actually have to test students very young, to see where they are good, and then we have to chase them through education as soon as possible, I would almost say. And he doesn't take that away in his first answer. Shouldn't it be exactly the other way around? Shouldn't we have much more patience with children?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u70	I think Mr Van Meenen is ignoring the fact that there are also children who want to go through education at a different pace than Mr Van Meenen proposes. Why would we take children's fun in school by keeping them back? How many of our homeowners are not stunned by the system we currently have in the Netherlands, in which they can do more themselves but are no longer allowed in school? That's what I'm looking for. How can we make sure we give these kids a fun, enjoyable school period, too? I think this could be one of the solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u72	Mr. Chairman. The teacher gets a much firmer position in school as far as I'm concerned. It must be a teacher who deals with key tasks and much less with peripheral issues, a teacher who is better equipped in education. As far as we are concerned, this has consequences for pabo-training. The question to the Minister is whether it is known to what extent the pabo-training is in line with the wishes of the current education system. If, as the VVD sees fit, we pay more attention to the key areas, I can imagine that this will also have consequences for the quality requirements we set for the pabo. Are there any evaluations available? When was the last time this curriculum was modified? Was this considered successful? And now that we are also working on the curriculum in the foundational education, when does it say the necessary adaptation of the curriculum of the pabo to the planning at all? Because a curriculum review takes time, of course. Therefore, it is all the more important that the pabo also develops in the steps we take within the curriculum review process. I am considering a second-term motion on this matter. Mr President, one more question. What about the implementation of Mr Rog and I's motion on a pabo aimed at the young child? How many pabos is this opportunity now? Has this been widely used? And more importantly, does this mean that fewer students fall into teacher training? I am pleased that last week the Minister made a commitment to look at options other than the annual system, which now dominates education. I hope that the clarification I have given will help the Ministry to seriously examine the option of a level system where children are not placed in a classroom but are going through education at their own pace. I'm curious about the results. Mr. Chairman. We have spoken a number of times in this House about failing to meet performance box targets and whether these resources can be used more effectively. Moreover, I am not at all in favour of too non-binding agreements such as the performance box and would find more control over how the money is spent much more desirable. For example, in the case of movement education, I believe that we can use the limited resources much more effectively. Last year, an amendment by the VVD and the SP ensured that two hours of physical education was legally anchored in primary education. Thank you for your cooperation. That's something we've been fighting for for, like, 20 years. However, I see that the 8 million in the performance box to give teachers skills to give partial movement education is not being used well enough and has too little effect. These teachers mainly teach their own class movement, while the objective is that children in other classes should also benefit from it. My proposal is to use this money more effectively by giving the Academy of Physical Education, the ALOs, a role in helping primary schools to organise their legally required two hours of gyms a week in a good way and also to better anchor the normal exercise at school, together with the pabos. The profit is enormous: more attention to the primary school on the ALOs, more colleagues who choose primary education and thus relieve the burden on the class teacher, children who receive better movement education, while schools are helped to give ordinary movement a stronger place, as stated in the report of the Education Council, the Sports Council and the Health Council. What's the Minister's position on this? I have a motion on this in preparation. Mr. Chairman. Last year I spent part of my contribution to a possible new location of the European School in North Holland. There are three municipalities that would like to take over the location Bergen; at least Alkmaar and two others. I'm asking the Minister what's going on with this trial. What has happened in the past year, so that we can see that steps have been taken? For a long time, the delay seemed to be in the Ministry. Is this settled now? The decision-making process must take into account the international companies in the Kop van Noord-Holland and the employees of these companies who bring their children to the European School. Parents and children in that region are disadvantaged when this school moves, for example, to the south of the province. Just think of the fact that they have to ride with rush hour rather than against rush hour. In the Kop van Noord-Holland we have a lot of international companies: ECN in Petten, the data processors, the high quality seed processing in West Friesland. That is why I ask the Minister not only to take into account the criteria of the EEA, which are important, but also to take account of all the other international companies in the north of the province of North Holland. I note that the need for clarity is growing among existing pupils and their parents. I would once again urge that the procedure be speeded up in order to reach a decision. Can the Minister respond and indicate what steps he has already taken and is about to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u73	From VVD to Tourist Information; it's just a small step. I assumed that Mr Heerema would take a little longer to think that we should gain more control over the cost of education, but then he took that step to the European School. I very much agree with him. I cannot often emphasise that I am extremely pleased that the VVD has a moving insight into total spending freedom at the lump sum, in order to put it positively. We see that there are billions of reserves and those reserves are increasing. Does the VVD also think that we should ensure that money is spent where it is most needed, namely simply to teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u74	Do you mean the reserves or the lumpsum itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u75	I mean the lumpsum itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u76	I believe that the money we give to education, via the lump sum, is far too little in our control over what that money should be spent on. Whether that is the core curriculum, the teachers or other things, we have little control over that. I am annoyed by this, because I think that if we put 38 or 39 billion into education, we can expect something in return in terms of quality and results. I'm not in favour of ear tags of a certain percentage in the teacher's lumpsum. This is what I think you can do best at school. For example, I do not really know whether D66's proposal to give the money to schools is ultimately the best choice. But I do want to talk about it and think about whether that would be a better choice. So I think we should take steps with that lump sum. We also had a debate last week on the adequacy and funding of the resources in education. I just honestly don't know what the most sensible step is yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u77	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u78	The VVD says: I don't know if it's better spent on the core curriculum or on teachers. But it's those teachers who teach that core curriculum. Mr Beertema said the net: expenditure on education has increased, but we do not see, for example, that the income position of teachers has grown or that class sizes have been reduced. We've been talking about this for quite a few years. Then I'd say, what's stopping you? What is stopping you from saying: we want this percentage to go to teachers anyway rather than to Blackboards or to the bank account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u79	Exactly what I think I said in the first term: I don't think it's wise to label a percentage in the lumpsum for teachers, because it has to do with the age structure of your teacher team at school, how many class assistants you have at school, how many years of your team are in front of the classroom. That all has an effect on the salary positions. I think you'd better make that assessment local, at the school itself, than we do here in The Hague. However, I do think that, for example, with the reserve positions of education, a great deal of money that we have earmarked for education has not been put into education. We should be able to support teachers, for example. So if these reserves can be used in education, then I am very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u80	I see you doubting, Mr. Kwint, but finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman, my whole life is a chain of almost existential doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u82	Well, that sounds healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u83	I do hear Mr Futselaar say that this is very exhausting to work with. But Mr. Heerema is now trying to be friends with everyone, and that is not possible. You can't and you can't say that you want to get more control over where the education money is going and you think that that consideration can best be made at school level. The idea that this consideration can best be made at the administrative level was precisely the underlying idea of the lumpsum. And what do we see now? Teachers let us, and you too, that was in the investigation that we as Chamber did massively know that they see nothing of the alleged freedom to talk about where the money is going and that they think the board is leaving it on the shelf or not spending it on the good stuff. So what's it gonna be? Do we then choose to say: no, it is best spent at local level? Or do we say the least we can do is set a minimum for what to spend on teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u84	But this is a different story from Mr Kwint's. He's now saying to set a minimum for what to spend on teachers. I think that's a little different from the fact that you're betting a fixed percentage by default. I think you can stay friends the moment you get a better grip on spending. We have the performance box resources, with non-binding agreements, but we have also had the work pressure tools, where teachers at school could take part in deciding what would happen with those resources. To be honest, I have become a big fan of this way of distributing money into education. I don't think you should take the lumpsum and say, "We'll split up a certain percentage of that for teachers, and we'll keep the rest going." I think we should look: how can we get a better grip on the total lumpsum? We should not go back to the Zoetermeer system where we have to answer for every euro, but there is something between total non-committalism and every paper clip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u85	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u86	Mr. Chairman. Last year, we adopted two amendments which would provide additional support for children doing something special, such as combining education and top-level sport. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of these amendments and related motions? What has actually been improved at the LOOT Foundation, the national organisation for education and top sport? Did they manage to draw up a working contract with schools with designated top athletes? Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's very nice that it's always better for children who do top sports and have to combine this with education, but if you have a different talent, it's often harder to make a good combination. For example, the Ballet Academy has few options to differentiate at school level. The DAMU Foundation makes little progress. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to bring these parties together in the interests of the best support for these children. Whether he does that with a special conference or that he actively invites them to his ministry, I don't care. But it would just be very nice for these talents if there were such cooperation that it doesn't matter what talent you have, but you are well supported in education anyway. Mr. Chairman. Last year I listed here a list of schools that asked for an unacceptablely high own contribution to highly gifted students. That was unacceptable because this is simply a core task of a partnership. We finally have appropriate education on 16 November. Before that debate, I would like to know what the Minister has to say. I can well imagine that the answer will be given in writing. What about all those schools I mentioned last year, now with my own contribution? Is it true that there are schools that leave the education of highly gifted people behind now that they are no longer allowed to ask for their own contribution? How did the partnerships react to this? Can you mention a number of locations in the Netherlands where the education of highly qualified people is well arranged? The last question is: what is needed to write a special curriculum for highly gifted students? We do it for children on the other side of the spectrum, but from vwo-level the curriculum is the same. These children have only one choice, while the difference in IQ between 115 and 145 is thus 30 points equal to the difference between a weakly gifted child and a vwo-scholier. Then you have practical education, learning path support education, vmbo, framework, base, mixed, theoretical, havo, atheneum, gymnasium: all these possibilities within an IQ range of 85 to 115, so also 30 points. I would therefore very much like to know the cost of creating more opportunities than just the vwo. Mr. Chairman. It is now up to my colleague Dennis Wiersma to talk about higher education and MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u87	So you will give the floor to Mr Wiersma?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u88	After this interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u89	I have one short question, because I agree with Mr Heerema's argument that there should also be sufficient attention for children who are gifted, because parents sometimes have the choice between bringing their child to school crying or leaving their child at home; well, that is not a real choice. Does Mr Heerema agree that his questions also apply to children who, for example, have multiple disabilities? Don't they have to go to school, too? They also have a right to good education that suits them, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u90	Absolutely. I am happy to respond to this, because we have had the discussion about, for example, severely limited children, children who need a very different amount of funding per year than the regular students: €30,000, €40,000 per year. But where we do, fortunately, for children on that side of the spectrum, there is virtually no room for children who are gifted. I have just outlined what is possible in the IQ range from 85 to 115 in education, whereas this is exactly the same division as that of 115 to 145. I have outlined what opportunities children can take and have if their IQ is between 85 and 115, and what is not possible if their IQ is higher than 115. I think that's crazy. I would like to stand up for that, but that does not mean that we have been able to make a very big effort last year for severely limited children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u91	I agree with a large part of Mr Heerema's speech, but not with his statement that there has been a very strong commitment to children with disabilities. Yesterday I read a press release from, among other things, Parental Association Balance, which said that there are thousands of children with disabilities sitting at home. Those are kids who have a disability and they get to hear it: sorry, school isn't for you. I think we should get rid of that and make sure that children with multiple disabilities from an early age should also be able to go to school. The same goes, of course, for children who are gifted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u92	I couldn't agree more. I would also like to conclude with that. Every child has the right to a place at school, whether you have a disability or need an adjustment. But what I have missed in this Chamber for the past four years is attention to highly gifted people. At the moment when the little sticker of gift is finished, we think, and the education itself, too: that child is smart, that will be fine. That's just not true. Most of the homeowners are highly gifted. Let's pay attention to that for once. Fortunately, we pay attention to the other side of the spectrum, but I think we should also pay attention to highly gifted children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u93	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Such a story that drags you along and inspires you: I think many of you recognize it from before, at school; that you have such a teacher. Last week it was Teacher's Day and I saw some beautiful examples come along. I had such a story at the beginning of this corona time: students of clinical technology who made a ventilator in two and a half weeks. Such a device was very difficult to get at that time. All the raw materials that were needed were also hard to get. And these students managed to do that in two and a half weeks, which was faster than many other manufacturers. That is a wonderful example, like so many examples we have seen so far. It is also an example where you actually get the best out of a situation at the most difficult moment. That's our Dutch education, Mr. Chairman. I liked to use this example at the start of this speech. At the same time, it's not easy either. I call practicals that fail, lectures that are given online, internships that don't go on. This isn't exactly a good time to get the best out of it either. It's complicated. And yet it is being tried massively and it also succeeds in education. I'm proud of that. I think that's worth a compliment to all of them. And how are we going to contribute more to this as a Chamber? I have three themes I would like to discuss with you. The first theme is valorisation, the realization of new ideas. The second theme is research, coming up with new ideas. The third theme is education and students. Who are we gonna do it with and how are we gonna do it? Mr. Chairman. Last year we also talked about entrepreneurship here. It was a very beautiful invention from a student. That was Marcel Fleuren who came up with an anklet that you can work out with. It was so flexible that you could exercise with it. Just what he didn't come up with was this. He had invented it during his studies, but he had also put a check mark somewhere with which he had actually lost the intellectual property of that idea in advance. I tabled a motion with Mr Bruins to clarify those agreements, so that the check mark disappears and we help and inspire students to realize those beautiful ideas themselves. And it worked. Thank you also to the Minister for that. Mr. Chairman. In that context, I was also visiting the Free University. The theme of this academic year was for them: valorisation. That is wonderful, because that is actually about the question: how can we use this time, in which a lot of difficult things happen, to bring very good ideas to fruition? Three points I have learned there, I would like to give to the Minister. The first point: the Vrije Universiteit has a program A Broader Mind. This is about all kinds of skills that you need in your life, such as creative skills and leadership skills, and all kinds of situations with which you start practicing and training, which are not only always in that field, but sometimes also outside. It would be so nice if we were to use that type of skills, I would mention that entrepreneurial skills encourage even more in education. Wouldn't it be nice to put a pendulum on that? What possibilities does the Minister see for this, and could the European Recovery Fund, which we will soon be able to clarify, be used for this? Because, of course, you have to have the resources to actually do this. Mr President, that is one thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u95	And that is the reason for Mr Paternotte and Mr Futselaar to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u96	Yes, we're just on our way and Mr Wiersma is coming up with his first new idea. I read this morning in Het Financieele Dagblad: a compulsory business entrepreneurship. He also just mentioned the corona time. I find it very difficult to follow what Mr Wiersma always comes up with in the corona period. Before the summer it was that fine for the colleges that he wanted them to hang over their heads. After the summer he came up with the plan of secret inspectors, mystery guests in all classes in higher education. And now he comes up with the proposal for a compulsory entrepreneurship course for all studies, for all training courses in HBO, from the course for biology teacher to Korea studies. I heard Mr Wiersma say the other day on the day of education of the VVD: I feel that I can never do it right in higher education. My question is actually a little bit: yes, do you think it's crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u97	I understand that I am confusing Mr Paternotte with ideas and proposals. I dare him to do the same to me, by the way. I don't know if I mind him being confused. I am going to explain this in this budget too. As I have already said, I will be speaking in a moment about education, quality and students. So I'll get to that. I started off with valorisation and entrepreneurship. So I'll answer that question. I hope you will find the answer really interesting and that you are also genuinely curious, because I would like to have a substantive debate on this. If you just want to make fun of it, good luck with it, but I don't think we'll get anywhere with it. What I just told you was a program at Free University. I think it's a nice program, which contains a lot of things that you also like. Those are important skills. I mentioned one example, but I will mention more of them, in which you see that entrepreneurial skills and also digitisation are going to help you in the future. So your profession can disappear, but skills that help you find your place are essential. There are a lot of beautiful examples, but my appeal is correct: can we make these examples even bigger and carry them out, so that it gets an even nicer place in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u98	This morning it was in the newspaper that the VVD wanted a compulsory course of entrepreneurship for all studies, all training courses in HBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u99	It wasn't in the paper. I don't know where...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u100	Perhaps you'd like to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u101	It said that we want to make entrepreneurship an integral part of all training courses, so you need to be able to get those skills. I'd hate for you to have a special course that you say you're gonna do for an hour and then it's over. Of course, that's not what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u102	You'll have to explain it briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u103	If you were to do electrical engineering, you'd have to get those skills in the subjects you're following before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u104	You do not call it a compulsory subject, you say: we are going to make it a mandatory part of all training in HBO, all training in scientific education. The point of those skills is, of course, very good. The VU pays attention to this, there are minorities that people can do, anyone who wants to can opt for a training with a lot of entrepreneurship. It's just not necessary for all subjects. I saw a lot of teachers this morning who are getting restless: do we need something extra and do we not get any money? And that at this time, when teachers were working their way around, in which they had to do a lot more to bring that education online, where they had to pull everything out of the closet. And then there's always a plan. First that college ticket, then that mystery guest and then this, which you're actually saying, we think you should do more than you already do, but we're not gonna give you any extra money for it. That's what's causing trouble. Next time you think of something, sleep on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u105	A good bouncer, compliment! What I also think is worrying is confusing all kinds of proposals, which you are doing now. I have just asked the Minister: we think that these skills are important, and that is what you have to do with resources, including money. We want to encourage it. I would also like to ask whether, for example, the European Recovery Fund can do so. You're saying none of that is possible. You must be very pessimistic. So if you'd thought of it in advance, "I'm gonna go see if I can grab that VVD and make fun of something," that's your right. That is fine with me, but I am still trying to find a way to get a step further with each other. I note, especially in corona time, that that kind of skills are important for a lot of people. I speak to people who say: I am quite curious how I take that step on the labour market with my studies, philosophy, or psychology. Then I think, help those people find the right skills to make that step. I'm doing that encouragement on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u106	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u107	Going into conversation about everything is of course very good, but I also take it a bit wider, because you have also made proposals earlier that really caused a lot of unrest, with that mystery guest first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u108	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u109	Then you will undoubtedly say: I made that proposal because I want to talk about quality and I am concerned about it. And: of course I am not making that proposal so that it really has to be done. But that does cause a lot of unrest. So my question is: if you put something down, if people see it everywhere, that's often more than they get, because not everyone is following this debate literally. So think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u110	Apparently, Mr Paternotte has a lot to gain from this unrest. He can speak about these plans here, but I always like to talk about it.So you can call me, too, then we'll talk about it. I also see a crazy Tweet here and you take it here. But let us not confuse higher education and set it against each other. I wouldn't do that. I think you do this way. I wouldn't do that. I'd like to stay out of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u111	I am not here to ridicule Mr Wiersma's proposal; he does not need me for that. But I would like to point out how radical it really is. Because when it comes to higher education, we interfere with everything. With the diplomas, with the language in which it goes, how it should be organized. What we don't interfere with, never, is the content of the curriculum. And that has a reason, because we think that the professor of physics, or even the training committee of physics, probably knows more about what that curriculum should look like than we do here in the Chamber for all these studies. So isn't it a very serious procedure, even in the light variant that Mr. Wiersma makes of it, to say, we're gonna change all that curricula now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u112	I think this is a good point. I think you have to ask yourself, are you going to impose this from above and dedicate it to me and are you going to record it somewhere? I wouldn't even know exactly where to record that. My proposal would be this. It happens in a lot of places and it happens very well, but there are also places where it can be better and where it might be needed more. I would like to help them with these good examples to incorporate that programme, with those skills in entrepreneurship, digitisation and creativity, much more into their curriculum. That is a movement which has already been set in motion in many places and which I think we can help and encourage even more. Hence my request to see if this fits into the recovery fund. I certainly cannot take away the nightmare described by Mr Futselaar, which I can see from his non-verbal communication, but this is a way for me to help education and help students.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u113	The disadvantage of being House of Representatives is that you always do it from above. That is the role we have: we are above, it is not higher than us, at least not if you are an atheist. If we propose something, it comes from above; it is irrevocable. The opinion that I sincerely want to give to Mr Wiersma is a rather easy advice to talk to his colleague Rudmer Heerema. When it comes to primary education, he has rightly stressed that we should go back to reading, writing and calculating. Why is that so wiped out? Among other things, because politicians have said so many times: we also want this in the curriculum. It's not just because of that, I say, but it's definitely part of the game. We really have to be very reluctant to say to education: we want this too. I can already see it: "Doesn't climate science really need to be in the curriculum?', "We would like something with equality in the curriculum." Maybe Marxist sociology, you can always do that. Then Mr. Beertema is right again with his left-wing universities. The laundry list gets very long pretty quickly. I'm making a bit of a joke about it right now, but the central point is: if we're going to intervene in such a curriculum, then we're going on a path that I really don't think we should go on. Can Mr Wiersma imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u114	I hope that will lighten up or at least prepare Mr Futselaar for his contribution. I just want to help students get in education the good skills that are needed for the best possible future, for themselves and also for the Netherlands, for our issues. They're beautiful programs. I would say, let's encourage them with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u115	The House has never missed out on all the proposals that have been made. It's just thinking through what it's often missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u116	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u117	I don't want to make a fool of myself. I applaud any good idea. But I can't escape the impression that the VVD is a bit grossed in ideas. You're just having some ideas at the time with those mystery guests and now this again. I hear friendly entrepreneurs who had learned about it say, "Huh? Should we learn entrepreneurship from a book?" It's a little far-fetched, isn't it? But what if this is your biggest problem? I wish you every success in rolling it out, but is this the biggest problem? Is this a bigger problem than the enormous pressure placed on academic science by the introduction by this minister of the critical race theory, of identity politics, which puts free science in the throes and puts freedom of expression in the throes? You keep track of that, don't you? That is, I think, a more fundamental problem to deal with in the budget than an idea to spread some entrepreneurial skills across all subjects. Do you have any ideas about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u118	Is this the biggest problem? No. It is one of the greatest opportunities, especially for a lot of people who are concerned about their job and income prospects during their training and about building a family. These kinds of skills are broader. They are also about sustainability, about digitisation, about poverty; the program of VU has a whole list. I think you might get itchy, but I would like to help students in every possible way to shape the future of themselves and of the Netherlands more beautifully. So I like that. Is this the biggest problem? No. I'm about to have the head of research and the head of education, so I'm going to come back to all the points I'm dealing with. There's plenty of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u119	Then I also hope that you, as a VVD, will have the courage to finally speak out on these foul identity politicians. Are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u120	I'm being seduced. Mr Bertema can certainly seduce me. I recently asked written questions about his columns on Joop.nl on the basis of an article by Meindert Fennema about diversity and the increasing pressure among researchers and teachers to operate according to certain mores, which may block them, which may even discourage them from thinking and remain critical. This is a diversity which I encourage and which I believe we encourage together. It's not in my speech, so I thought I'd do it with this interruption. I would like to work with Mr Beertema in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u121	Then I expect the VVD, the main government party, to have the courage to address this urgent problem at last. Take a big and compelling look at the decolonisation of the curriculum, at the quotas for women in top positions, at universities, at all the horrible examples we have seen, all those people who want to work certain professors out, as if we are dealing here with some sort of Revolutionary Guard. Those are the problems at the moment. These problems have priority over your plan to learn entrepreneurial skills. It's not all as rosy as the VVD always sees it. These are the real problems. I expect the VVD to make a clear statement on this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u122	It is not all as black as Mr Beertema sees it, because that would make you almost pessimistic and would not make any sense at all. I supported him in a number of points he has just mentioned. Moreover, with regard to the women's quotas and the situation at TU Eindhoven, where women had to be hired, the Minister has been accused of this by the College of Human Rights. The Minister was very positive about it and then said: I remain positive about it, but I think we should take a good look to see if it fits into the law. I'm very critical of that. I ask a lot of questions about that, a lot more questions than fit in a few minutes of my input here, unfortunately. I'd be happy to. If I had been given your speaking time, I would certainly have mentioned it. But I don't think there's any light between what we're all amazed about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u123	Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u124	I was gonna move on, but I'm gonna wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u125	In the last few minutes I have been standing here saying so much again that I would really like to respond to, but I do not. I'm just gonna limit myself to the point I want to make. The scientists and the teachers I speak to are talking about very different problems. They're talking about very different concerns. They are talking about the enormous workload they have to deal with. They are talking about the enormous pressure to make applications for research proposals. They are also talking about uncertainty, which has only increased. It was already there. With a number of parties here, we have often drawn attention to the enormous uncertainty about temporary contracts, flex contracts, open-ended investigations. That uncertainty has only increased because of corona. There are even a lot of scientists still waiting for a solution. It is very good that a first step was taken last week, but it is far from enough to tie all those loose ends together. I would very much like to work with the VVD to address these concerns. How does Mr Wiersma look at these problems, the real problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u126	That last sentence is a pity, but it apparently had to come out. Those are certainly real problems and also very serious concerns. I can totally follow them, by the way. I'll have some ideas in a minute... I will finish briefly on what I saw at the VU and what I would like to say to the Minister. Then I'll come and investigate immediately, if you'll allow me. That can be very short, by the way. There are also nice programs where after your dissertation you get two more years to start a business with your dissertation, Cyclotron Road. There's that in Berkeley, for example. Would that be a way of getting the valorisation to a higher level in the Netherlands and is the Minister prepared to look into that? Finally. There are sometimes very nice initiatives of start-ups, which arise from universities, for example. I just mentioned them. Last week there was also de Luca, a car made of PET bottles; a wonderful initiative, very nice that it arises. But those kind of start-ups, those kind of ideas, then have to move on. There's not exactly a big private party that says, "I'm gonna do that." We would love to look at the Dutch Academic Impact Fund as well. Universities are already working on that. In what way can the minister help with that movement with them? Finally. Valorisation is an important task at the moment, but it does not get very clear fixed funding. My question is: what options do we have to give a little more certainty and clarity about the valorisation task to institutions? Could, for example, a matching scheme, perhaps later in the framework of the Growth Fund, be one way of doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u127	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u128	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the investigation. I'll answer the question. We have beautiful pearls in the investigation. I would like to say to Mrs van den Hul: that goes beyond just universities. I've seen a lot of colleges lately. Think of Zuyd Hogeschool, who does beautiful projects in neighbourhoods where live, develop, education, enterprise and work come together, a so-called WOOW project.I saw a message from Saxion today, where they can measure the freshness of a fingerprint with an app. So that research is very broad and very important, and that must challenge, challenge and inspire us as a society to come up with new things. The complicated thing is that these researchers are being challenged right now. They represent the big challenge. I'd like to see how we can do it with you. I have some ideas for that myself. I'll test it. Let's see where we can get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u129	First of all, I was talking about higher education in the broad sense. Let that be said for a moment. I fully agree that there is also fantastic applied research in HBO. All praise for the students and researchers who are doing this. It is good to hear that the VVD is looking for proposals to increase security. However, I do not yet hear very specific points that the scientists, the researchers and the teachers I have talked with can deal with. What is happening now is also on top of the existing problems. Due to the announced transfer of alpha and medical to beta there was already a lot of unrest in the sector. I am talking about a sector in which very, very many people indicate that the water is already above their lips.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u130	And what is your question, Mrs Van den Hul?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u131	Well, the question is next. There was already a problem and it has only gotten bigger. What is the VVD going to do to make sure that we really address that workload and that we really provide that security for the flex contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u132	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u133	I would like to make three proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u134	A brief answer, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u135	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I understand. I would like to make three proposals. Mrs van den Hul asks whether we can think about it together. I note that the funding does not include a fixed base for research at colleges of applied sciences. That would help a lot. Those are now low percentages. I'd say it's like 10%. These are also sounds from colleges themselves. I'd find that interesting. I wonder if the Minister will see room to establish a clear foothold for colleges. The second proposal I am thinking of concerns the publications the researchers are attached to. These can be quite decisive for the renewal of a temporary contract. Can we put a pause button in there? So I'm saying that you don't have to make all those points, but that this year, a complicated and crazy year, we're gonna leave it out of the equation. My question to the Minister is: can we help any more...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u136	And finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u137	...to acknowledge and appreciate it and eliminate the pressure on publications for this year as much as possible, so that can't be a reason to fire someone? Finally, Mr President. I am also thinking of De Jonge Akademie, specifically for young researchers. He's got a lot of points. I talked about that right away. I'm with them looking for what might help. They come with a shorter academic year. I think that's an interesting idea. I do wonder if we can do that very big and massive and if it really is a solution for a lot of people, but if it works, we could try it. My question to the Minister is: is that something and can we look at it further? They also have a number of other recommendations, including on workload and administrative burdens. I'd like to take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u138	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u139	I'd like to say a few words. I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Van den Hul. The interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u140	I have already dealt with part of my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u141	And the answers, too. We have just started, but I notice that with every question and every answer long stories are kept, but you have reserved enough time to do so. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u142	Mr President, concluding. I will make a proposal later to remove the insecurity of the researchers. We are tabling an amendment to ensure the continuity of the investigation. I'm asking the VVD if she's willing to watch that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u143	I saw that amendment pass. I'm definitely gonna take a good look at that. The cover wasn't quite clear to me. There was something about a counter-budget, but I don't have it all in my head, so I say honestly. If you have a phenomenal cover, knowing you have that one, I'm sure we can come a long way. But apart from just a bag of money, it's important to ask the minister to find out where the bottlenecks are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u145	I went to school. I just mentioned a teacher who can inspire and drag you around. In my case, that was someone with me at the mavo. There was someone who gave history, geography and social studies, and was also my mentor. That's how multifunctional he was. He inspired me to study after the Mavo. I did. I did habo then and then went to college and high school. I'm telling you this because I was expecting it. It was certainly not bad education, not at all, it was quite nice. It was easy for me. I got very high grades and I only had three classes a week. I learned the following from that. It is important that education has three ingredients. First of all, it has to be customized. It's supposed to fit you and connect to what you need. Second of all, it has to be good and challenge you so you can get everything out of it. Thirdly, it really has to take you further. You need to learn things that you need in your future life. On this last point, I just called it entrepreneurship education. You need certain skills for that. On the first, tailor-made education, and on the second, quality, I would like to ask the Minister some more questions. Further education must be ideally prepared for the future, no matter how uncertain or unknown it may be. Whether you're young or old, whether you want to do an entire education or turn your work experience into a diploma, or you want to sit full-time in the college banks or follow the education online, it needs to be well arranged. It's got to be possible. An interesting article was published on ScienceGuide by Ulrike Wild, among others. It was about the fact that the Higher Education Act is still quite an analogue law. It would be nice if we could look at which parts of the law are no longer fully up-to-date. How can we change those parts? The Minister has ambitions with the strategic agenda in this respect, but perhaps we can get on with that. Perhaps we can get this on the table for the next formation. With that in hand, we may be able to improve the law. One of the components you'll encounter is modular education. That sounds complicated, but it comes down to the following. If you're struggling to keep your job or you've been looking for a while, it's hard to find the necessary education through the funded route. A whole four-year training course is possible, but it is precisely at this time that we should be able to make a paid module of, for example, 30 points with a nice certificate possible. The support package for jobs and the economy is very important for many people. It is also very important for many entrepreneurs. I note that retraining is given to the UWV or to the municipality, but not to higher education. In many places in higher education we can do this and we are waiting for it. Is the Minister prepared to see how, if necessary temporarily, we can make this kind of short courses possible through funded education? Education must also be properly regulated. It has to be good, it has to offer quality. I have two points to make. The first concerns quality agreements. That's a technical term. Money was handed in to abolish the basic grant and then it was promised to invest in the quality of education. We've spent quite a lot of time trying to figure out if that money was gonna end up there. We had a lot of worries about that, too. We still have them, because there are still 12 institutions that do not have these quality agreements properly for each other. But we also see that a lot of institutions do very good things with it. By the way, there are also less good things done, or less good... Dance lessons, sustainable desks and study trips are also included, but a lot of good things are also included. My question would be: does the instrument of quality agreements work? Is the Minister satisfied with that? Could we make that even bigger in the future? Could we make that even more important? Or should we also tighten that up? Do we have enough clarity about the quality or do you still need to tighten it up? I also ask because it is sometimes quite complicated for students to have all kinds of demands on their side. There is an incredible amount of hard work and it is very often good. But I would also like it if we could look at how you, as a student, get a little more control over that quality, not only with student organisations and quality agreements, but also really at educational level. Perhaps this can be done with more help from participation; I am always in favour of it. I would like to ask the Minister to look at how we can make that quality even more felt by students themselves, so that these quality agreements can also be meaningful to them and not just something we are talking about here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u146	I think that Mr Wiersma is now saying something nice about quality agreements. Indeed, I saw that students and teachers were forced to distribute the money and that in by far the majority of cases it went to more teachers, so really to the workplace, to the classroom. That's what you'd like. So I share what he says about that, namely that this is appealing. My question is: does he also mean that he would find it interesting to see if you could invest more money in this way, including with the participation of those students and teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u147	I ask: should we tighten these agreements and increase them? So I'm asking both of them. I'm also asking you first because I want to know what we're talking about. What is quality? That's why I'm saying: what exactly is the deal you make as a student with your institution? What can you expect from each other? Now that institution expects a lot from you. You might as well expect something from that institution, but that institution takes you down real hard and you better hope the education is good. I would like it to be possible through the role of participation that we are looking at how this could be done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u148	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u149	Mr. Chairman. The second point is the digital organisation. That falls apart for me in two ways. I think that the organisation SURF, which does a lot for digitisation in higher education, has made very good comments on this. On the one hand, it's about online education. How can we make that better? That is the order of the day. It is a reality for a lot of students, but it also raises a lot of questions. At the same time: could we provide funds for this? Can we simply think within the budget of the Versnellplan or perhaps make the quality agreements themselves room and give encouragement by releasing money for online quality education? Mr. Chairman. The other point is digital security. We saw the hack in Maastricht. We've seen a number of other smaller hacks after that. When you talk about digital security and online education, the question is what the digital organisation of that institution is like. Would it be interesting to see how we can take that into account, perhaps also with the NVAO and the institution accreditation that the minister is working on? How could you consider the quality of that digital organization? The point is that, as a Chamber, we have a little more control over whether that is okay or not, and that we can trust that it will be looked at. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join internships. A lot of young people are looking for an internship, especially in the MBO, but also in the HBO. Last time, it wasn't quite clear how many internships there are now at HBO and how many problems there are. We are getting more and more control over that and there is also an approach for that. That's good. At the same time, I would like to know whether there has already been a success in these local authorities in particular. My colleague Mr Smalls also pointed that out last week. How's that coming? Mr. Chairman. It is also remarkable that 170,000 internships are still open at the MBO. That says something about the direction people are taking in the labour market. I'd find that interesting. Can we take a closer look at that? Can we ask the efficiency committee to give an opinion on what we could do with it? 'Cause it's a search. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to students. Last year, with my colleague, Paternotte, I drew attention to mortgages. People who don't study anymore sometimes still suffer from their studies when buying a house. I can't wait to see what's going on with this and when students can actually see it. The second. Last year I drew attention to the profiling fund. That is also such a technical word, but, as my colleague from GroenLinks said, I believe that this is actually for students, to help them to do beautiful things in addition to their studies and to be able to develop. Those skills are super important. They appreciate a lot of people, a lot of employers, too. Only, in the profiling fund, the arrangements between institutions are sometimes somewhat different. It would help if there was clarity about that. There was a motion last year. I can't wait to see what's going on with that. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two final points. I can finish it, I can finish it... Do you want me to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u150	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u151	I think we're all wondering what the impact is for students. What is the impact on your delay and on your education, and how does that work out? I think we should take a good look at that. I am also curious to see what the Minister sees now in the monitor, the first signals, and also what steps she sees next when it appears that the delay is continuing and is really greater than we really hope. Of course we want the education to go through. We want to prevent delays. But if it comes into being, what are we going to do about it? Finally, Mr President. I also think it is important, especially at this time, that we ask students to get the best out of themselves, but also to work for society. You can do that in a lot of beautiful ways. Maybe help an entrepreneur change his business model. Maybe I'll give you an extra hand in the care. Maybe start a business like breathing equipment. It would be nice if we could encourage that in education by, for example, recognizing it on your diploma or perhaps converting it into credits. A lecturer emailed me: "We did research. That was about corona. Things got a little out of hand. It turned out to be quite a serious investigation. Two students found it super interesting and participated. But now they can't actually see it converted into credits. Can we do something about that?" I ask the Minister if she can see how we could encourage this more. Finally. For these students it is not only very important, but also to meet and get to know each other. The introduction time did not continue this year, or continued but much online. Would it be possible to see how we can organise as many great introductory activities during the year as possible with student organisations? That makes me think that everyone has the feeling: hey, I really started somewhere, I am motivated and I also have people around me who can shape my studies. That is ultimately what determines success.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u152	I wanted to ask one more question about the internships; that is two or three points back. Mr Wiersma has a point to make about the internship issues at the MBOs and at the HBOs. We all have a responsibility in that. The government has a responsibility in that and business has a responsibility. In his question, Mr Wiersma asked about the local authorities. I was wondering whether Mr Wiersma felt that sufficient placements were being created at the level of the government, particularly in this time of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u153	I don't have a clear picture of how many there are anymore, but I noticed that there are much less of them in the government than in the local authorities. That's not crazy either. That is why my question was also whether these actions were effective in the local authorities. I think this is a justified point in the government: not only on the MBO but also on the HBO. I don't know what's possible out there, so let's ask the minister here together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u154	I ask all the more because we tabled a motion during the APB on the creation of additional internships. That could count on D66's consenting nodding. In any case, I also see a co-operative state of the VVD, so let's talk about that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u155	Yes, that is why I am asking the Minister, because I wonder if she can still see any bottlenecks where help from the Chamber can help. Because with local authorities, the minister is not everywhere at the table, but it might help if we in the Chamber say: boys, do your best. Maybe it'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u156	Mrs Westerveld and then Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u157	I deliberately listened to Mr Wiersma's speech. If you want to have a substantive discussion with each other, as Mr Wiersma points out, that might be useful. I hear him say very nice things about entrepreneurship, about valorisation. Now, last week, from GroenLinks, we proposed giving young people all a start-up capital, which they could, for example, use for a lifetime of developing or setting up a business. I wondered how Mr Wiersma looked at that, given his words about entrepreneurship and valorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u158	Given how Mrs Westerveld asks the question, she wants a good answer in terms of substance. That's what I'm gonna give you. I think it's a good idea for parties to think about what would work. That's what we're doing. We don't have an election programme yet, you do. You have a proposal here and we will have our proposals. What exactly they are, I don't know yet. At the same time, I have seen that a lot of people and parties think a lot of your proposals. That is no reason for me to take a less serious look at it. I only wonder if you give €10,000 to a student in one go without a single condition, hoping that it will be okay. I think that's very spacious. Then I hope that it will end up where we hope together that it will be used for, namely to study it. Maybe there are other ways for them to work better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u159	As Mr Wiersma explains, I will not do it entirely in a moment. I didn't exactly say it that way, by the way. The proposal is that you give people a start-up capital to invest in their own development, for example for setting up a business or a study. Would Mr Wiersma be in favour if I put him down in such a way that we say: invest it in your development, in a company, study, develop lifelong, so on and on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u160	If it's for a company, of course I'm... haha. No. Look, I think we want to kick-start young people on the labour market. I also have the feeling that, if you just do that with... and it's not meant to be... I know that, but it can also be almost a kind of buyout of a lot of other bottlenecks that we have to solve. For example, we must help young people get a permanent job faster and find or buy an affordable home. I would hope that we have an approach to that, too. Then we need to see what works best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u161	First elections and then we're gonna see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u162	That's actually the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u163	I think it's very good to stick to the subject. I'm going to see Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u164	Mr Wiersma speaks with great passion about student entrepreneurs. That's what's good for him. I think I can agree with that, too. One practical problem that student entrepreneurs currently experience in corona time is that they fall outside the support schemes, specifically the Tozo. That's not what this minister's about, I say, but she's about students. And you're a spokesperson in that area. I can't move in the cabinet in this area. Would Mr Wiersma like to hang out with me to see if we can make something possible for that group within the Tozo regime? Because there are now students who are financially dependent on their own company, who, purely and simply because they are students, are not entitled to support, whereas exactly the same kind of company that is not registered with an institution, does receive support. That's a little crooked, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u165	I also know the examples of students who are having trouble with their business right now and who want to fall back on something. The line is that you still have the right to study funding. You can use that for that. By the way, I know students, especially the really enterprising students, who have just requested this. In some cases, it has also succeeded in getting that support. So you see municipalities making their choices in this, too. That's good, too. We have put this kind of law into municipalities to provide tailor-made services. A very ugly word, but it does mean: in your situation, if you can't continue in any other way and your company and get around yourself, then there are forms of support for that. They are also included in the assistance for young people under the age of 27. But the principle is that you learn or work. I would really like to look again at the specific bottlenecks in the municipalities. But I have the impression that municipalities themselves are already offering opportunities if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u166	Of course, you are not entitled to assistance if you are registered as a student. It's always nice when there's room. But I hear Mr. Wiersma say municipalities are already doing something about that arrangement. I would find that very worrying, because I believe that the scheme is based on the Participation Act, where students are specifically excluded. At least I don't want to hear a group of students: you got it wrong, you have to pay back. Because I would say that we have enough problems in this country at the moment. But that is not so much for Mr Wiersma, but more for the outside world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u167	Okay, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u168	Clear. For the most part, this debate is also with Social Affairs, as Mr Futselaar says. I'd like to leave it with my colleagues there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u169	Short question, Mr. Beertema?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u170	Short question. I was a little surprised by Mr Wiersma's statement that there is little light between the views of the VVD and the PVV on that cultural revolution that is now going on. You referred to questions you asked about some of Fennema's columns, but that all stays a little under the radar. Now that you are standing here during the budget, with the country's cameras aimed at you, I would like to ask you a clear question: do you think that there is institutional racism and institutional sexism in the universities, and does it justify the appointment of diversity officers who go as far as political commissioners to force all teachers and staff to go to diversity lunches, where they have to exercise their own white privilege? Can you, in the eyes of that camera, just make it clear to the electorate: yes, we reject this, we find it scandalous that this is happening, politicising in this way, that the VVD does not necessarily want, and those identity officers who have to get out? That's gonna pay off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u171	Well, then I'm convinced. I'm just thinking. I'm always happy when Mr. Beertema helps me to magicalize something that apparently stays under the radar. I have a lot of ideas, as has already been mentioned. The more you conjure it up with me, the better I think it's gonna get, even at this point. I've asked a lot of questions about those diversity officers. I saw a beautiful picture of a meeting with these officers the other day, which was just women. I had the same question, especially at a time when it is not just a function of a window where you can ask for help, think with it and discuss and inspire the university's policy with each other, but makes sure that some books are no longer available on lists, that some exams may not be allowed to take place anymore and that there are complaints about some questions, after which you have to come by and be nailed to the bar. I reject that very much. I also believe that we should have an approach to this, because that is also diversity. That is the diversity that we want to see more than just gender diversity. What do we call that? I'd say something we need to solve quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u172	I don't understand. My simple question is: is there, according to the VVD, institutional racism and sexism in the universities, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u173	My inclination would be: no. I see these problems, and I would like to address them, hopefully by doing so, that all those pessimistic views that Mr Beertema is putting forward here, which also have a core of truth, I myself mentioned Meindert Fennema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u174	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u175	Finally, Mr President. My last simple question: if there is no institutional racism and sexism, does that justify the appointment of those so-called diversity officers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u176	I've always had doubts about that. If you are with me tomorrow to ensure that we use these people in a very different way for education, where they can work on the quality of education, then that might be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u177	Then we'll deal with that Thursday, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u178	Okay. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u179	I find this a very entertaining debate: two white men who stand together and see that there is no racism and sexism at Dutch universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u180	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u181	I believe that our Prime Minister, a fellow party member of Mr Wiersma, recently admitted that there is institutional racism in the Netherlands too. And that there is sexism at our universities seems clear to me. Just take a look at the number of scandals that we have seen with #MeToo lately, also in the academic world. I hope that Mr Wiersma agrees with me that all of this is a left-wing bunch of crap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u182	Well, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u183	... really is a far too short turn to be taken here. These problems exist. Let us not deny its existence. That seems to me to be step one of the solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u184	I couldn't agree more. Let me just say that, too. I also find it uncomfortable, so I am also having an inconvenience in this debate. Just because I don't think the colonial revolution... I think that's a complicated and crazy discussion. The universities are working with men and power to come up with good things there, to give everyone a place and even to challenge people to get there. I'm from Utrecht, Channel Island.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u185	Good...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u186	A lot of people there opt for a university degree. That's what we need to encourage. But to put that away... No, definitely not. Not at all. In my opinion, these are two things that are going to come across in the debate, but I would say: let's take a little time; let's see where the real problems are and solve them with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u187	But now the confusion is complete, because to Mr Beertema's question Mr Wiersma of the VVD answers with a yes, for which he then needed a lot of words. But now he totally agrees with Mrs Van den Hul of the PvdA. I would therefore like to clarify the position. Is there institutional racism in education: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u188	If I need long sentences for it, that means I have a lot of questions about it. I see that the debate on the one hand is polarized with: there is a revolution, we have to get everyone out and diversity is completely wrong. Diversity is needed to bring out the best in people, including in the university world. All I'm saying is it's broader for me than just gender diversity. That's the point I wanted to make. I have tried to stay out of the debate on racism once that has happened. This is a sensitive and complex discussion that we have with each other at a very large number of times, but there are aspects to it that I cannot really weigh in education right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u189	I think it is important that we discuss this, because we can expect the largest group in the House of Representatives to give its opinion. I think your colleague spoke today about inequality of opportunity. We know from the figures that the income, the ethnic background of the parents and all kinds of background characteristics play a role in the inequality of opportunity. So why is it so difficult for you to give a clear answer and get lost in nuances?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u190	That's not hard for me at all. I want higher education to be a place where you feel at home and where you are invited to get the best out of yourself, in any way I have in my speech mentioned different forms................................................................................................................................................ I responded to this because Mr Beertema mentioned diversity when it comes to research and independence. It is precisely the critical minds in higher education that help to sand sometimes and come up with something new. We need to make sure that doesn't come under pressure. He mentioned a number of examples of this. I've heard them, and I've asked questions about them. I've repeated that here. If I accidentally ended up in a complicated split, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u191	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. You're done. Good. Then I'll go to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u192	Mr. Chairman. An open and democratic society cannot live without institutions engaged in independent scientific education and research and a social service based on it. I was triggered by the following sentence in the introduction to the book 40 theories on the science of Rens Bod, Remco Breuker and Ingrid Robeyns: "Performance pressure, competition and the resulting workload has become the norm in higher education." The authors put their fingers on the sore spot. It is not for nothing that they are advocating radical changes. While education is the foundation of society, it has been seen far too much as a cost in recent years. It looks at the price and not at the value of education. GroenLinks has a lot of concerns about this. Education teaches children the skills they need for the rest of their lives. It teaches young people to discover and work together. It helps us to be critical and become part of this society and this democracy. My graduation thesis was about the philosopher Karl Popper. He fled Europe because his parents were Jewish and during World War II he wrote a very important book about democracy, namely The Open Society and Its Enemies. Unfortunately, I have only eleven minutes, but he said in that book, among other things, "only democracy saves society from a tyrant and makes all opinions in a society count." According to Popper, we make that open society with each other, by giving people the space to discuss with each other, but also by giving each other the space to make mistakes, as in science. At the same time, according to Popper, a society is very vulnerable. It must be protected by institutions, including independent and critical journalists, but also by good education and good science. Mr. Chairman. Those institutions that are so essential to our democracy are under pressure. Because if education is still that place, I'd like to ask. Researchers and lecturers sometimes have little to do with their core tasks, because the time for education and research is under pressure. It's not realistic. Let alone have time to discuss new ideas, to work out new ideas, or to make new plans. The return thinking creates stress among students. It ensures that they have fewer opportunities to develop themselves within, but also outside, the study. What do we call it "a wrong choice of study" when a student has done an education for a while that turns out not to fit afterwards? Let us be glad that someone finds out at a young age and learns from it. Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Ministers to reflect on this. Do they agree that education is a foundation of our democracy? And if so, what is the Minister's response to the report that the state contribution per student has fallen by 25% since 2000? What do they think about the fact that, partly because of the commitment of this cabinet, the Horizon Europe science programme is being reduced by billions? What are they going to do in the coming months to strengthen these essential functions of research and education and to give teachers fresh air? Are we going to take further steps to meet the Lisbon objectives and invest effectively in education and research? Do the Ministers agree with me that the whole system is under pressure, that the emphasis is really too much on return in education and that the workload is too high? Is there even time for students to develop outside their studies and their secondary jobs in, for example, study or sports associations, cultural associations, or by doing voluntary work? Are there any figures on that? Mr. Chairman. The problems in higher education are not on their own. Ten years of Rutte, ten years of VVD policy has also not done the foundation education well. There is a decline in school performance, an increasing number of homeowners, a growth in private education, an increasing workload among teaching staff and a huge shortage of teachers. This is a different list than Mr. Heerema mentioned when he was standing here. It's also a list. While I'm normally a very optimistic person, this is making me gloomy, because this is not nothing. I also wonder how this could have happened. How can it be that the whole of the Netherlands is not turned upside down when we just hear that children's school performance is falling enormously? How could it have happened that such a huge shortage of teachers has arisen? Nor is it normal for thousands of children to be at home without education and sometimes disabled children to hear: there is simply no education for you. However crooked it is that people who want to be retrained for a job in education or care are sometimes confronted with tuition fees of over €8,000. I really don't think I can explain that. I do not think it can be explained that the number of Dutch teachers is falling and that we are not investing in it any further. That is why Mr Van der Molen is tabling an amendment to the motion for a resolution which he has already tabled and which includes my name. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education once again for a solution to the teacher grants. What's he gonna do to help duped students? I am also under an amendment by Mr Kwint in which we are trying to find a solution. I also believe that this solution should be structural, because we know that the profession will be more attractive if we give teachers the opportunity to be trained. Is the Minister also prepared to strengthen the content of teacher training and to abolish the knowledge tests at the outset? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The issues I have just asked for are relatively easy to settle if these ministers so wish, but the real problems in education are, of course, caused by broader right-wing policies. That is a policy in which money is distributed to large companies and to the fossil industry, which has made people who have a lot of money a lot richer, even during the corona crisis. Meanwhile, the richest 1% in the Netherlands own one third of the wealth, while 60% of the population share 1%. In order to get more attention for this wealth inequality. young people's ability has fallen by half over the past ten years. It would also help if the Nibud were to recreate purchasing power cards for students and other young people. I ask the Ministers whether they can insist on this from their point of view. Mr. Chairman. I often hear the persistent misunderstanding that people with a lot of money have worked hardest for this too. Some parties in the Chamber even benefit from maintaining this misunderstanding, but that only hard work determines your chances is simply hard neoliberal nonsense. We know that not the number of hours you work or your talents determine your success, but whether you are a woman or a man. It matters. Who your parents are, and what neighborhood you grew up in. That is a more decisive factor for success. In recent years, legal policy has led to an increase in inequality of opportunity. Cutbacks by right-wing Cabinets have taken children's chances. Those are children who are already lagging behind. While there is enough money in the pocket of the few, there is often too little money left for structural investment in education. I am, of course, very happy that there is money at once for ventilation and for reducing the gap between schoolchildren, but I am also sorry that this requires a crisis, because of course we have known for a long time that this inequality is getting worse. And we've known for a long time that not all schools have clean air. In fact, this should have been invested in much earlier. Together with my colleagues from SP and PvdA, I am making another attempt today to invest structurally. We are again tabling several amendments, including to close the pay gap, to reduce the workload in higher education and to give staff in special education the same remuneration as their colleagues in secondary education. 'Cause that's what they deserve. Mr. Chairman. Young people from a disadvantaged situation are 3-0 behind, as de Volkskrant explained very clearly in an article last Saturday. They earn about half of their peers who are academically educated, and that all their lives. The government also invests tens of thousands of euros less in the training and development of young people who are already lagging behind. That is why I am tabling an amendment with colleagues today, which allows us to take a small step towards eliminating a small part of this inequality. This is in fact a proposal for an OP card for entry students into practical education. It costs about 4 million, but it can make a huge difference for these kids. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks would like to go even further. In addition to the return of the scholarship, we would like to invest in all young people. We want to start with the basics. We must ensure that all children before they go to kindergarten are already entitled to good and accessible childcare. We would also like to invest in education, with smaller classes and a higher reward for teachers. We also want to invest in the form of a start-up capital - I mentioned it already - that every young person gets and that he can use for his or her development. In recent days, like all other colleagues here, we have received several letters from educational institutions and knowledge institutions saying: invest in that life and do so in the form of learning rights or a development budget. I fully support lifelong learning, but I do think that we should also be aware here that not all young people are made for life in the textbooks, and this can be developed in a very different way, and for some young people too. I would therefore like to turn the point around and give it to my fellow Members as a suggestion. Because why is there a majority in this Chamber, as it looks now, before we give a scholarship only to students? Let us make sure that the scholarship comes back together, but let us also invest in the young people who cannot study. I would like to invite you here. I would like to ask my fellow Members which one of them dares to go along with it. Let's really reverse this and make sure that we invest in the young people who already have fewer opportunities and let's think less from the higher educated thinking in the Lower House. Please, let's take care of the other kids. Mr. Chairman. I'm about to start my last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u193	Okay, but first Mr. Van der Molen and then Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u194	Over the last few days, there has been a lot of talk about the €10,000 that is being distributed to every young person from the age of 18. I still have a question to ask. I hear Mrs Westerveld now say: why are we not investing specifically in young people who do not go to higher education? I think that is a good starting point. That's where you'll find me on your side. But why would GroenLinks choose to give every young person €10,000, when we know, for example, that the government invests around €35,000 less in the MBO who does not go to higher education? That's what you leave on that side. You say everyone should be happy. Whether it's the son or daughter of a millionaire and whether it's a wo-master or an MBO entrance course: €10,000 for everyone! Don't you abandon the group that the government hasn't invested enough in? Because you don't want to go any further than that $10,000, it seems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u195	I welcome this question from Mr Van der Molen, but it is of course not the case that we do not go beyond that €10,000. If Mr Van der Molen looks at the GroenLinks electoral programme, I shall not go into that further, Mr President-in-Office, he will see that we are investing in a lot of other things. I mentioned, among other things, that we also need to ensure that children all have an equal start before they go to elementary school. Because that's where the odds start. Then let's talk about the amount of €10,000. Most parties now want the scholarship back for students. That's what they stand for now, and so do we. We also say that young people under the loan system generation must be compensated. Let's do that. But on top of that, let us look at young people who are not in the textbooks for their whole lives, but who do want to develop in a different way. So let us ensure that all these young people get a start-up capital that they can use for their development in a way that suits them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u196	Mrs Westerveld talks about it, if I may say so, because we agreed on this. My point is that an MBO who invests €35,000 less than in a wo'er doesn't have much use for this. Then you should've had cheaper childcare if you were really small. The question I asked Mrs Westerveld was the following. If you know that €35,000 less is invested in an MBO than in the wo'er who does a master's degree, and you want to eliminate that inequality, why do you choose to give every young person in the Netherlands €10,000? Because that gap doesn't close you with it at all. You are simply not willing to invest more in that mbo'er than in the wo'er, because it also gives you €10,000 as soon as it turns 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u197	I'm sure I'm prepared to do that. If I hear an opening here, I have just heard it from Mr Wiersma too, then I think it is very good that we continue to talk to the parties about the idea: here you have a budget that you can use for development. I think that's a very good idea. I am certainly prepared to talk about whether we should increase that amount for young people with practical training. In fact, quite a lot has been said about this. We've had a pretty long run. A year and a half ago we announced that we would come up with an alternative to the loan system. We've been talking to youth organisations about that all this time. And indeed we have also thought about whether we should increase the amount for young people with practical training. Eventually, that didn't come out, because we're also stuck with a pass-through. There he is the crux and also in leveling, because we take that money away from the people who make the most money in this country. In this way, we create a more level playing field. But I would suggest to Mr van der Molen that he discuss this further, especially with regard to the developments in the young people who are practically trained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u198	I have the feeling that we will continue to talk about this subject in the coming months, in the run-up to the elections. I also have the idea: we are in October and the bidding for the favor of the younger electorate has begun. Now I know, and Mrs Westerveld has also admitted, that GroenLinks is one of the founding fathers of the loan system. In my discussions with the youth organizations, I notice that they are asking whether the political will is to completely compensate for the student debt generated by this loan system generation and the amount that they have actually missed. Is GroenLinks willing to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u199	It is true; GroenLinks was one of the parties at the cradle of the loan system. What we have now proposed is that there should be compensation for students covered by that loan system. We say: let us make sure that young people who were covered by that loan system also get those €10,000 back. That also has to do with the total amount. I sometimes get the impression that the amounts under the basic grant are slightly increased. That basic grant used to be about €100 for home-living students and about €280 for out-of-town students. With the loan system that basic grant has dropped, but that supplementary grant has increased, so students with parents who had less to spend, received a slightly higher additional grant. If you add that amount of our compensation, then we will not achieve full compensation for the basic grant, but then we will be on our way a long way, I would say to Mr Kuzu. That is what we are going to do, and I am very curious to see what other parties are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u200	You can count on DENK to be firm on this point. We wanted to go for that full compensation. You did say that it's close, but it's not quite there yet. Of course, we are also dealing with a generation of students who have missed that amount, from 2015 until at the earliest, after a formation takes place and the bill is drafted, I think 2023-2024. That is a period of nine years, so those are tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of students who need to be compensated. Every year, it's ticking. Are you prepared to apologize to all those hundreds of thousands of students who have actually suffered from one of the initiatives that GroenLinks was one of the founding fathers of?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u201	In my view, we are saying very clearly in the election programme that we want compensation for that group of students who are under the loan system generation. I also indicated that the supplementary grant was slightly higher in the previous period. The students with parents who had less to spend did not go down as much as Mr Kuzu might want to say here, but I have just said that we are in favour of compensation. We are in favour of a proposal in which we are giving a new type of scholarship, which is about up to date on the amount of the previous basic grant. On top of that, we want to do something for all those young people who are practically trained, and I would like to give that to Mr Kuzu. We invest heavily in students, but also in young people who have fewer opportunities and who are already 3-0 behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u202	You were finishing up, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u203	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I did want to finish. I started my argument with the difference between the price and the value of education. Education is essential for the development of children, young people and adults, but also for society. As I said just now, a democratic society cannot live without good research and education. But the value of education is often confused with the price by right-wing politicians. Our education system is under pressure and this pressure is increasing. That is why it is time to make radically different choices, to opt for education, the future of our children and young people after years of right-wing policy, and to opt for a society in which origin no longer determines what the possibilities are, but everyone gets opportunities, and to opt for a society in which we learn from and with each other. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u204	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u205	Mr. Chairman. When I visit my parents in Zeeland, my mother often asks me: do you not work too hard and do you sleep enough? My father then occasionally meddles in the discussion with the legendary words in our family: well, then he should have learned a profession! It's a bit shabby, but I think there's something secretly in there. Back in the day, when I was in elementary school, I wanted to be a farmer: fruit grower, just like my father. But eventually I didn't go after my green fingers but my green heart, I ended up at GroenLinks and after some wandering around here in the House of Representatives. But the appreciation and passion for the craft, and for the green craftsmanship that lies in my father's words, we as a society may have lost too much. Hasn't the focus on knowledge caused us to lose sight of the beauty of craftsmanship and not see it anymore? A society needs both: the practically trained professionals, the people with a practical talent, and the "I hate the word "highly educated scientists," the willie roots. We need them both badly, but in the way we talk about education and knowledge, we often do that first group, the practically educated, to my taste. We've taken some nice steps in the past year. Thanks to a new law, which GroenLinks has long insisted on, MBO students are now simply called students. And there's gonna be an MBO student fund. Speaking of which, can the Minister state what the latest state of affairs is? We read that the MBO student fund will not enter into force until 1 August 2021. I'm asking the Minister if there's any way to speed things up. I understand that this will be difficult, because that delay was caused by the corona crisis, among other things. We understand that, of course, but I have the question to the Minister: is there any possibility of acceleration? For GroenLinks, it is very important that MBO students receive the same rights of control and facilities as all other students as soon as possible. Then there's the minimum internship fee. This subject lives hugely among students. Ever since I took up the subject here last year in a debate, I have often been called upon to do so. Mbo students e-mail me and call me and ask: "What's up? Will there be a minimum internship fee?" Just last week, I got a call from an MBO student who's doing research on that minimum internship fee as part of his citizenship assignment. He told a poignant story that unfortunately isn't on its own, namely that when he started internship, he had to quit his side job, because he couldn't be available both on call for his internship and for his side job. I told you, the example of this story is not on its own. That is precisely why we think it is so important to see if this minimum internship fee can be achieved. The Minister was going to discuss that. I would like to hear what is going on in her reply on Thursday. Mr. Chairman. I am proud that our electoral programme introduces a start-up capital and that we strongly choose to do something for that large group of people who are practically trained. I just heard colleague Wiersma talking about valorisation. That's what got me out of the heart. Well, if there's something valorizing, it's telling young people: here you have a startup capital, invest it in yourself or start a business. And whether you're a smart Willie Carrot with a car made of garbage, with beautiful innovation, or a practically trained one, a stucco, a baker, a painter: you get a starting capital. That too is valorisation: if you can valorize that practical knowledge, that practical talent. In the questions of Mr Van der Molen from the CDA of just now I also tasted an opening. So that's good, but I also tasted the question a little bit: is GroenLinks' proposal going far enough? I liked that, because we have heard a lot in recent days about our proposal, critical questions and positive reactions, but the question of whether we are radical enough was not yet on the list. So I would like to thank Mr Van der Molen for that. If I can put another dot on the horizon today, that's the next one. I would like to see young people who have a practical talent and who would like to work with their hands help to excel in it. Mr Bruins has argued more often for the companion-master route. That too has been taken from my heart. We also see beautiful examples of this, such as the Craftsacadamie and the Energy Academy. This deserves to be followed. My question to the Minister is whether she is willing to talk to the people behind these and similar initiatives to see how we can make that companion-master route or other routes to excel in a profession more robust and future-proof. Because we give students too often the feeling that excel means: to spend as long as possible with your nose in the textbooks, to study as long as possible. For a large group of students this is of course the case, but there are also students who have a practical talent and want to work with their hands. For them, we need to see how they can excel in that direction. Mr. Chairman. Before addressing a number of challenges, with a critical question here and there, I would first like to compliment this Minister. I know her heart's beating for the MBO, and you can see that too. She travels and zooms through the country to talk to students, teachers and administrators. We share that passion; the Minister knows that. There. Then after the sweet we go to the acid, because here come the announced critical questions. Let me start with the internship shortages. Mr Wiersma has already mentioned this, and rightly so. Internship shortages are historically high. We see a lot happening: SBB's action plan, SME entrepreneurs looking for practical solutions, resources in the third aid package. All praise for this, but it remains striking that the largest deficit sectors are all public sectors of care, well-being and enforcement. Why is that? I've asked about that before. We should be able to do more as a government to solve the internship shortages there, right? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Can the Minister state very precisely how many traineeships and apprenticeships can be created with the resources now available, all in all, SBB action plan, third aid package and so on? Because I tried to make a calculation on the back of a beer skin myself, but I didn't get to 19,000. I wonder if the Minister will come to that. Constructive as we are, of course, we have also tabled an amendment to help the Minister. That is the amendment to item No. 17. We hope, of course, for a positive appreciation. What is striking is the large mismatch........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's gotta be a better way. I regularly speak to entrepreneurs who offer innovative services to better match the demand for and supply of traineeships. This often happens in app form, I say with some caution towards the Minister. My question is: is the Minister prepared to talk to these entrepreneurs to see if these innovative services can help to better match supply and demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u206	Just getting to the point of that mismatch. That's kind of crazy, of course. There are now 170,000 internships open, while there is a shortage of about 20,000. Is Mr Van den Berge prepared to see how we can tackle this mismatch better and more effectively, for example by asking for an opinion, as I suggested earlier, to the Commission on macro-efficiency? It also seems to say something about the choices that young people make and the opportunities that they have in the labour market afterwards. Shouldn't we go deeper into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u207	I am never opposed to advice, so we can ask for it, if we do not write down training programmes strictly by motion, as the VVD has done before. We believe it is important for young people to be able to choose what they want to study for themselves. Nor do I think that the macro-efficiency of training is the main reason for the mismatch. I think it is right to do a good research on this, but I also hear other stories, for example from internship counselors from MBO institutions. They say that a certain clothing store... I will not mention the name here.. always want students hospitality, while students from other training courses could also do such an internship very well. It is therefore necessary to look more closely at competences than at the name of the training. I think there's a lot in there, too. As I said, there are even Tinder-like apps, but without a photo, which try to match the competences in supply and demand. So: asking for advice is fine, as long as we look wider than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u208	Actually, I think that's a great idea. I am not in the habit of putting forward all kinds of rigorous proposals. Undoubtedly that sometimes sounds good and you do, but I have a genuine question here about that mismatch. It may have something to do with competences. I also mentioned entrepreneurship. Maybe we can find something there. But asking for an opinion and asking the Minister where that advice might best be asked is perhaps a good idea, so thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u209	I would also like to thank Mr Wiersma for this good question. I'd like to direct it to the minister. It is good to hear that the VVD group is going to be less radical on this point, because a former MBO spokesperson I will not mention his name here, because he is not there to defend himself. Yeah, that's a little far. But I'm tasting progressive insight here. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u210	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u211	Then I'll move on. For a while, I referred to it as the app against internship discrimination. The minister says we're not gonna do that. I wonder what the Minister will do to prevent internship discrimination. It's not about the means, it's about the purpose. That's what I said last week in general consultation. However, I note that if we have a debate here on internship discrimination, everyone from the left to the right, except perhaps Mr Bertema, thinks that this is a problem. This is also referred to as a problem and asks the Minister to get on with it. I talk a lot with students, teachers and inclusive entrepreneurs who try to tackle this, and they always call clear directions for solutions: increase awareness, tackle notoriously discriminatory employers, but also raise awareness and work on additional internship guidance. We have made proposals on all these points. I refer to the diversity coaches and the internship discrimination app. I hear the Minister saying about these ideas: on second thought, after discussions, we don't think it's such a good idea to do it this way; I'm going to do it differently. Fine. I also read that the Minister wants to launch a campaign, an online platform. But what I would like to hear from the Minister in concrete terms is: what is she going to achieve in the field of combating internship discrimination? What else can we expect? This problem is very big. If you ask me and GroenLinks, it's one of the biggest problems at the MBO. So that's what we need to do. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u212	You're almost done, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u213	Yeah, I'm going to another block now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u214	I just have a question. I see in the answers to the factual questions information on the number of notifications. That's 42. I see one of them was actually addressed by SBB. That's where they used their authority to stop that internship. Mr Van den Berge says that he feels that the problem is even greater, that it needs to be raised. I'm really looking forward to seeing what could help out there. What does he think could help? What are the proposals that we can actually make now? The Minister has undoubtedly already chosen a direction, but what could be of help and what studies does Mr Van den Berge think that the problem is really greater than just the 42 reports? This willingness to report must certainly be increased, but what are the points we have to deal with? Apparently, it's something people find complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u215	Yeah, that's right. I have often asked this question to students and teachers who often have to deal with this problem. First of all, what you need is of course just better guidance for students who need extra help finding an internship. That's why I introduced those diversity coaches. But the second thing you should do is make reporting alleged internship discrimination easier. Now, for example, there is a hotline at SBB. That's where the numbers come from. SBB is doing a great job in this area.I have no criticism of this, but I do hear from students that the hotline is quite far away from them. So that's why I came up with the idea of the app. That was based on conversations with students, by the way. The Minister now says: I do not think that is the right way to resolve this issue. Well, fine. I think that is why we are holding the debate here. How? So that is my question to the Minister: how are we going to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u216	Mr Van den Berge and I have talked about this before. I said to him at the time: there is no racism or discrimination at the internships in the MBO. I've worked there for 34 years. I spent 34 years trying to show students who knew nothing but that street culture how to apply, how to present themselves and so on. I never met an employer myself, who said, "I don't want to, because he has a crazy last name." Or something like that. You then came up with an example of an employer who would have said: no, we do not hire colored people; we only do so to clean the toilet. I'm paraphrasing now, it went like that. I find this outrageous. But I still missed hearing again. And most of all, what I'm missing is this. We're talking about tough discrimination, tough racism. That is what the Constitution is for, Article 1 of the Constitution. At times like this, the D.A. has to take action. Then there's gonna have to be a report and then it's just gonna get its way. An app you are advocating, which puts such an over-focus on poor SMEs and on those employers, who are being put into the accused bank by you and by GroenLinks in a completely unjustified way, namely that they discriminate and that they are racist, I find scandalous. Do you understand the irritation of SMEs and businesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u217	There are actually three questions in Mr Beertema's speech, or in the story or whatever he wants me to call it. I'm gonna try to answer all three of them briefly. Firstly, that is the first article of our Constitution. Mr Bertema is quite right about that. That is why it bothers me so much that we do not manage to tackle this persistent problem. I'm also the Justice and Security spokesperson. If only it were so easy that, on the basis of Article 1 of the Constitution, the public prosecutor could prosecute organisations or people in the event of alleged discrimination. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. Not even the judge can judge the Constitution. The second point is the example I mentioned in general consultations last week. That's right. In the afternoon, we received 18 examples of young people who have been discriminated against when finding an internship. One example was indeed a student who went to apply in a nursing home and got to hear: we only hire foreigners in the cleaning. What I'm doing here is keeping a very substantive story about internship discrimination. We know from official studies that that's a problem. I know anecdotal from many students and teachers that it's a problem. With that, I do not put all SMEs in a corner, even more so, I speak to very inspiring SMEs working on inclusive entrepreneurship. Mr Bertema did not hear me say that. What I do have difficulty with is that he takes away the problem a bit as a street culture and trivializes it with that, because internship discrimination affects just a lot of people and I think we should just deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u218	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u219	I hear Mr Van den Berge mention one important term: anecdotal evidence. It's anecdotal evidence. So on the basis of anecdotal evidence, for example, you're turning this nursing home away as racist. You can't do that! Without rehearsal, you can't do that. It is only on the basis of an anecdote of a student that you cannot accuse this business here in the plenary of the Dutch Parliament of such vile actions. It just can't be. I think it's outrageous what you're doing, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u220	This is a rather selective outrage. Mr Bertema would have a point if I mentioned the nursing home here by name. I do not do that, because the judge is talking about whether in this particular case there is internship discrimination or not. I'm taking a point here. Mr Beertema did just mention the names of scientists. Okay, I don't vouch for those words, but I'm leaving that name out on purpose. Why is it touching me? Let me add one more personal point. I am married to a fantastic woman of color myself and I see what it does to her when she is rejected for inexplicable reasons over and over again for a job. She studied corporate economics and has had a fantastic career in Bangladesh, and here she often runs into walls. I just see what that does to her. That's not the only reason I'm standing before this, of course. Those are all the students I've spoken to, but this might be a little more personal to explain where the emotion comes from. I stand for it, I go for it, and I will do it every time Mr Beertema tries to trivialize this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u221	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u222	I know a lot of great people, too. Some of them are of color. I never pay much attention to that, because I still like to be color blind. That's not my point at all. You'll find it very important to name it again. That's your right. But again, the accusation of racism is a very serious accusation. I'm through the union AOb. You know him, that's that horrible FNV union...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u223	Yes, they are all members of GroenLinks of course. In the meantime, I'm familiar with the wiggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u224	Well, okay, it's some kind of PvdA/SP bulge. The official spokesperson declared me racist on Radio 1, with a whole story that didn't make any sense. And then I thought, "What am I supposed to do? Juridize this thing? I thought, "Well, I'm not gonna do that." But I strongly reject the ease with which that happens and with which you do so. You are cutting your fingers, because business and SMEs are going to turn their backs on you, if that is not the case. I'm very sorry you're so easy to come up with this kind of accusation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u225	I am asking the Minister... we have a persistent problem here. This is also apparent from scientific research, because I should like to touch on that point. A number of years ago, a number of universities, including VU and Radboud University, carried out extensive research. They have, I say, sent 700 fictitious applications from my mind. It just made it very clear that people with a foreign sounding surname were invited to a job interview much less often than people with a primordial-Holland sounding surname. That's just hard scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u226	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u227	I'm moving on. I'll see where I left off. Mr. Chairman. A completely different subject, namely the chaos that has arisen in the cultural sector as a result of the corona measures. I am not going to go into this now, because we are going to have a separate legislative consultation on culture and we are undoubtedly back in a different reality after 7 p.m. tonight. However, I would ask the Minister to answer the question of how she works with the cultural sector and security regions to increase the predictability of the measures. I'd really appreciate that. One point where mbo and culture come together is the MBO Card. The Minister wants to stop funding for the MBO Card, despite a positive evaluation. We want to stop this constructively. That is why I have the amendment to item No. 16 submitted. Mr. Chairman. Finally, science. I have said it many times: we must move towards a better balance between tied and untied research. Ineke Sluiter, chairman of the Academy, summarized it nicely during the VSNU Knowledge Breakfast. The system, the foundation, is dry. Every now and then a tropical rain shower comes over it, as with the Growth Fund, but the soil can no longer absorb it. My question to the Minister is: how are we going to get that soil fertile again? In consultation with, for example, the KNAW and the VSNU, does she want to achieve a stable and steep growth path? I think we can learn from our eastern neighbours. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's answers. I hope we can make Holland more beautiful together, for our handy Harry's and Halima's, and also for our Willie Roots and Abbas Ibn Firnassen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u228	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u229	Mr. Chairman. Our education is as good as the teacher in the classroom. Each year, since 2012, it has been the first sentence I have said in the budget for OCW. To allow teachers to excel, we advocate space and trust. I think that we have taken important steps in recent years and also in this cabinet period, including through the Regelluwe school experiment, which has been extended in this cabinet period, another role of the education inspection, to which an initiative law by Mr Bishop, Mr Van Meenen and myself has been submitted, and by fewer tests from The Hague to determine what education should look like in schools. And I think that is an important merit of this cabinet by allowing the hundreds of millions of extra invested in reducing the workload to be spent in consultation, locally, at school, between school leader and teacher team. That's where the conversation takes place. As far as the CDA is concerned, this serves as a good example. Mr. Chairman. Especially in times of shortage of teachers, it is necessary to increase the attractiveness of teachership by removing barriers to teacher training and rolling out the red carpet for new teachers. Two weeks ago, when I sent my first contribution to the group, I had written down some wonderful suggestions for this. And what does it turn out to be? Yesterday, the Minister showed the light of a beautiful government agreement, together with the Association of Colleges and the VSNU. We can very much endorse that, but it leads to a single supplementary question. Because why was this agreement not discussed with teachers? A motion from my hand has once called for agreements of this kind not only to be made with the administrative bodies. And could that money or could that still be spent in part for the teacher's scholarship? And how are we ultimately going to give the Chamberwide desired pabod differentiation a place in it? Can the threshold also be lowered for full-time teachers? Now the red carpet goes out for side-intromers. Can this also be done for the pabo as regards the admission requirements? It has been postponed this year: until 1 January we have the time to comply with it. Can we do that again next year? What are we going to do about the individual who failed to meet these admission requirements on 1 January, but who does manage them at the end of the training? Mr. Chairman. Teachers who already teach deserve to be able to develop. We've talked to the minister more often about the teacher's scholarship. The CDA wants to offer the 2,400 teachers who miss a chance to continue their studies. This is the budget debate and the last time we can ask the Minister to go through the budget one more time and meet these teachers. If we fail to do so, we shall have no other way but to achieve this by means of an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u230	I appreciate Mr Rog's commitment to correct this injustice. Everyone attaches great importance to the professionalisation of teachers. Then it is incredibly acidic that because of a problem/misunderstand lecturers in The Hague, it is very bad. We saw yesterday that resources are being released from the performance box. We got an e-mail about that yesterday. Part of it goes to professionalization of teachers. Would it not be wise, and I think it is sensible, even more so, on behalf of Mr Westerveld and Mr Van der Hul, I have just tabled an amendment on this subject, to say: let us bring these resources forward so that we can see what we can do for teachers who are now threatening to miss their further training, their professionalisation? Is that the kind of solutions Mr Rog is thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u231	That is why I am asking that question. I could imagine it's in the performance box. I could also imagine that it was part of the governance agreement that was concluded yesterday. If there is no room for manoeuvre, the Minister refers to the next budget; that means by definition that the 2,400 teachers who have missed out on the teachers' fair will not be able to start until February, I want to deal with it by amendment. I am going to listen with interest to this Minister's reply. That will undoubtedly include your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u232	That's all I can ask, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u233	Okay. It's possible. Proceed, Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u234	I'm going to talk about a lot of other things that you're definitely going to ask questions about, Mr. Kwint. Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about the pay gap. In recent years, there has been a lot to do about the difference in salary between primary and secondary teachers. It is only right that this government has taken steps to reduce that difference. The Minister said that the next cabinet should make up the remaining difference. My question is: why does the Minister not take the initiative now to take a follow-up step and to start discussions on the outlines of a single collective agreement for basic education, i.e. primary education, special education and secondary education, which focuses on a single wage building that can be redesigned, in which it pays to learn and in which teaching to groups with relatively many disadvantaged pupils can be extra rewarded? Does the Minister see a role for himself in that sketch? Can he talk to the sector about this? Now we are only talking about money that may be available after the elections. We want a plan on what it looks like. As far as the CDA is concerned, we must recognise that teaching some children requires more from teachers and can be better rewarded. But we must also recognise that the home situation of children makes them unequal opportunities for a successful career in school. Some of this is already taken into account in the funding by means of the weight regulation, but the CDA wonders if that is enough. We want to get rid of the taboo on purpose. It is precisely in order to provide equal opportunities that we believe targeted funding for disadvantaged children can help, for example for homework guidance, for extra support, catch-up programmes or the organisation of a homework-free school. I would also like to make one point which I have often mentioned: the summer schools would therefore also be one of them. So I'm talking about a target payment, so that children have a quiet place, with good facilities to catch up in reading skills, maths or other subjects. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister: does he think that within that lump sum payment, we do not want to get rid of that, other than, for example, the SP..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u235	Mrs Van den Hul, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u236	As far as equal opportunities is concerned, I have taken up the coalition agreement. It says: "The main ambition of this cabinet lies in combating inequality of opportunity." Now it's about equal opportunities. I have a very brief question for Mr Rog. Does Mr Rog think that ambition has been achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u237	I think that the cabinet has taken a lot of steps to create equal opportunities or at least reduce inequality. Then I'm gonna get to the point where we are right now. For example, there are now four years of occasional funds going to the big cities for disadvantaged children, which is wonderful. The question is whether that is the best way forward. Wouldn't it be better to do that in a structural arrangement? That's the question I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u238	That is still not really an answer to my question as to whether that ambition has been met. I dare to doubt that. For example, what does Mr Rog think of the fact that the shortage of teachers is the hardest hitting the children who might need the best teacher for the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u239	That is exactly what I am trying to find a solution for with this proposal. I agree with Mrs van den Hul that there are unequal opportunities. And this cabinet, which undoubtedly recognises Mrs Van den Hul, has taken real steps to try to increase equality of opportunity. At the same time, however, I am looking for a structural embedding, including the funding that we are talking about here, in order to be able to deal with this in a more structural way in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u240	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u241	The inequality of opportunity has actually increased even further in recent years. We have put forward a number of very concrete proposals for this, such as an equal opportunity bonus, precisely to ensure that in the schools most affected by the shortage of teachers, the best teachers are in the classroom. These are proposals that the CDA has voted against over and over again. So this time I really hope for an open look. We are going to make all kinds of proposals again, with a cover. I hope, however, that Mr Rog will support it. He is now saying: we want to invest structuralally in equal opportunities. Well, look at the proposals that are being made to structurally invest in equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u242	I will look carefully at every proposal made by Mrs van den Hul and weigh it up. But she will not fail to tell me that I am also looking at financial cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u243	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u244	The CDA also wants real work to be done to reduce excessive reserves in governing. Money doesn't belong on the shelf, it belongs in class. This cabinet can take steps already, starting with the partnerships. I would like a reflection from the Minister on that. Does he see that? Mr. Chairman. The development of children benefits from a good pedagogical relationship between that student and that teacher. Look into each other's eyes. The living voice of the teacher that brings you to a new insight. That is very important, but the corona crisis has taught us that for a while we could not do that anymore and that we had to move on to digital education, among other things. Questions have been asked about this more often, including by my group. A motion has been tabled, including by GroenLinks and the Labour Party. My question is actually: can we not go to some kind of backup system, some kind of digital school as a backup option for children who might be sitting home in the future? Mr. Chairman. Restoring reduced reading skills will be one of the most important challenges for the coming years. Of course, as the Leescoalition writes, there must be a rich reading culture, both at school and at home. Parents have a responsibility in that too. The ease with which children get an iPad or a computer game pressed into their hands when they are equally bored or have nothing to do with, ultimately also leads to less reading skills. Just read a book. I have two questions for the Minister. What role can he play in achieving a library at every school? And can he indicate at what time the controversial Dutch examinations in pre-secondary education are being adapted? Mr. Chairman. We know that students benefit when their parents and teachers have high expectations of them. Unfortunately, efficiency thinking, The Hague's self-control, offering opportunities and putting high expectations aside can be the right thing to do. Take the indicator underbuilding efficiency. If a school gives more pupils the chance to start at a higher level but more than half of those students are at a lower level at the end of the sub-structure, then that school does not receive a compliment for what they have achieved for the students who have successfully passed the level, but runs the risk of increased inspection supervision. It leads to perverse incentives, risk-avoidance and thus to the loss of opportunities for children. For the gymnasium, the indicator underbuilding efficiency is completely absurd. Kids can't flow in there at all, but they can drain out. This leads to caution in the influx, because offering opportunities to students can lead to red balls at the inspection. Is the Minister prepared to reverse this obstructive form of supervision? Mr. Chairman. Over the past eight years as an educational spokesperson for the CDA, I have visited hundreds of schools and met and talked to thousands of administrators, school leaders, teachers and other educational staff. In my final budgetary input, I would like to make an ode to three teachers I have met and who have been significant to me. The first is Erica Ritsema. She was a kindergarten teacher, who wrote in a moving letter why she quit her job as a kindergarten teacher. She denounced the fact that she had to see children as hollow vessels in which she had to put knowledge, and that she had to record and test all of that. She inspired me to work on abolishing the kindergarten test and the idiotic standard for the number of young children who had to lie around for a year, and to get back to work on a specialized pabo for the young child. The second teacher I would like to mention is Karin den Heijer, the sober engineer and mathematics teacher who fought against the curriculum review. She opened my eyes to what the math test is doing. It did not lead to better computational education, but dealt with young children and let them die in secondary education. The last teacher I want to mention is the teacher I mentioned in my first sentence here, behind this chair, in my maiden speech. That's my own history teacher, Arie Wolfert. He is the man who caused me to be fed in my hunger for knowledge about history, politics and state institutions, and who eventually also sparked the fire with me to choose for the education. That's the kind of teacher you give everyone. Fortunately, almost everyone has such a teacher who eventually made the difference in someone's development. At least I want to thank him for his contribution to my development, so that I became who I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u245	Thank you. Nice closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u246	I wonder what Mr Van Meenen has to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u247	I have actually only come forward to thank my good colleague Michel Rog. In his story, which was once again a wonderful story, I, too, really felt that we had a great deal of cooperation with each other during nine beautiful budget discussions in eight years. I think that at that time we have been sitting here together there are no more motions than those under which our common names stand. Each time we had to look into the order in which that happened. I'm thinking of the math test, of the education corporation, of the 1,040 hours standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u248	The opposition didn't have to do anything, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u249	It all came on its own. But I am also thinking of the fight for severely limited children and the money for lagging behind recently. We're still in the middle of a fight about the teacher fair, and we'll get back to that in a minute, because we're not giving up yet. I would like to thank my colleague very much for those years, and I hope that we will have a few nice months together. Michel, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u250	He's not gone yet. But this was kind of sweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u251	Now I can hardly stay behind: Michel, thank you, through the President. But I also have a substantive question, namely about the financial reserves in partnerships and the number of homeowners. That bothers the CDA and GroenLinks. A few years ago, I tabled a motion on this subject, including the SP and the PvdA, in which we suggested that we make targeted agreements on the size of the financial reserve contained in those bank accounts. There was no majority in the Chamber for that at the time, but we are going to talk about appropriate education in the near future. I hear a lot of criticism about that now. What should we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u252	That's a very good question. You know that's what we've been talking about recently. The CDA can't accept this anymore, because it's really not good. We understand the presence of target reserves and destination reserves. We still understand that you have some sort of room somewhere on school boards; hence, we have signal values. But somewhere, the knife falls. So we have to make that happen. I will call on the Minister in the second term to come up with a proposal for what happens when those signal values are exceeded, so that we simply have a solution to that. The Minister said: I want to, but you can't just take it away. That is true, but it just so happens that we were the legislator and we can change the rules that determine when we take it down. That's where I want to work with the note-taking meeting on appropriate education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u253	That is good, because we are indeed having a very important debate on 16 November in which we will discuss this further. But it is also good to be able to prepare us as a Chamber for that. We now know that a lot of partnerships actually exceed all these alert values. The question now is what we should do about it. I am pleased to hear from Mr Rog that we, as a Chamber, may have to make proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u254	Thank you, Mr. Rog. Let me see if Mr Kwint has something to say to Mr Rog. It'll come later. Thank you. Everyone is curious about the press conference, including in relation to education and so on. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u255	We will continue to deal with the budget of Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by saying that, in addition to a health crisis, the corona crisis is also an economic crisis, and that we still see that there are professions in which the demand for staff is very high. Examples include machine mechanics, nurses, construction workers, electricians and plumbers. At least they're in the top ten. The fact is that there is a lot of talk about universities, even today, but when you look at that top ten of society, people are mainly jumping over mbos and HBOs, for very practical professions, people who are working with their hearts and hands. However, the talents of the future are now in a situation where practical lessons do not go on, internships disappear and a lot of education takes place online. Unfortunately, I hear very often from people in education that they see younger people rotting. We can feel on our clogs that students, like earlier this year, will be delayed. That is why the following two questions. Firstly, is the cabinet preparing for a second round of measures for students who, despite all efforts, are delayed and have to incur costs? Secondly, how can we get young people who remain unemployed after graduation as quickly as possible to the jobs that I started with? How's the secretary gonna pick this up? Can the Minister explain why, at this time of a chronic shortage of professionals, she has decided to stop the resources for the Expert Expertise and Expertise? Shouldn't we be doing more to maintain small craftsmanship training? The Minister also intends to abolish the MBO Card, which allows MBO students to go to museums, theatres and cinemas with a discount, and to exchange it for plays, for example on gender roles, and then for students on the MBO. It's nice that the minister wants to put money into plays that she thinks are important, but the cultural sector is complaining about that abolition. As far as the CDA and the VVD are concerned, the MBO student can choose where he wants to go. That is why, together with the VVD, I tabled an amendment to prevent that abolition. Mr. Chairman. We can assume that MBO students try to study a little longer because it's harder to find a job. We see that in every economic crisis. Last week's report showed that the percentage of MBO graduates successfully passing to HBO is decreasing with the main reason for the introduction of the loan system. Now transit to the HBO for the CDA is not an end in itself, but the students who do want to do so must be given time to get used to the HBO and make it a success. Now students have to decide before 1 February whether to stop paying back their travel product and scholarship. They will not even be able to wait for the results of tests in January, for example. In practice, many mbos choose eggs for their money and quit. For this reason, we also propose, on behalf of D66, VVD and ChristenUnion, to extend the 1 February scheme in higher education for MBOs. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two points about passing on and dropping out in higher education. First, we will return to a previous discussion with the Minister on the 21+ test. Students who do not have a subsequent pre-training course are excluded from, for example, health and technical training, but if they are 21 years of age they will be given a chance to take a test after which they can still be admitted. But who, for example, doesn't flow from the Havo until the age of 21 to an education? For refugee students, an exception to that 21 rule has already been made. And we even see that universities allow special preparatory years for international students. Hence the question to the Minister whether we should offer the possibility of this test to anyone, regardless of age, who wants to move on to a training which does not fit in with pre-training. I'd like a response from the Minister. Previously, we also discussed the binding study opinion. That's a thorn in the eye of a lot of students. The Minister immediately wanted to tie the BSA to a maximum number of credits and that is too much in the freedom of educational institutions as far as the CDA is concerned. However, if we see in practice that, after negative study advice, students are often going to receive exactly the same training at another institution, then the Minister has a point. That's why we want to propose an experiment with a flow standard. Students who fail to meet a certain standard cannot, contrary to the current BSA, be properly dismissed. With clear agreements they can then continue their training. These appointments are made in a conversation between student and supervisor and are recorded in an agreement. This is already being successfully applied at Windesheim. If this can also be successful in other institutions, this could eventually lead to the end of the binding study advice. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u257	Mrs. Westerveld. I don't know what you said, but everyone's a little excited, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u258	That's because of the beer they drank at dinner, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u259	No, you can't. They don't. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u260	Well, at least I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u261	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u262	And even if I did... When we talk about young people and students, you can look at them in different ways. You can see from confidence that you can see how they cost as little as possible and go through an education as quickly as possible. I am not necessarily saying that Mr Van der Molen is in favour of this second variant, but I do find it amazing that the CDA was first in favour of the long-term study fine and now proposes to restrict all kinds of students' rights. I would like to ask Mr Van der Molen the following question. If you guide students well and ensure that there is sufficient study guidance, wouldn't they take responsibility for their studies themselves? Wouldn't they know for themselves which training suits them and whether they want to continue in the second year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u263	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u264	If that is exactly what Mr Van der Molen is proposing, then we should simply stop with the binding study opinion. Then we just have to delete that article from the law, don't we? It's possible. We can do that here. Then you make students responsible for their own education. We do not do this by making all kinds of barrier measures possible here, because I believe that this is hampering students' own responsibility. They are perfectly capable of doing so with the right guidance themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u265	I agree with Mrs Westerveld that with the proper guidance, you will indeed get very far in your education. For example, that is why I find the 1 February regulation, which I mentioned earlier, a kind of financial incentive, whereby students sometimes think "I couldn't make it, so I choose eggs for my money" when they could finish the academic year with better support. The point I'm making here... I am indeed in favour of a binding study opinion at the moment, because I see this too, and I also hear it in the discussion with educational institutions themselves, that teachers say: in the first year you have to lay a very deep, good, solid and theoretical basis to build on in the following years. That's what I hear from education. I'm on my own for that. The example that happens at Windesheim is that they say: yes, there is something in it, but instead of a negative binding study advice after which one goes to another programme.... we know that that is often the same.... we could also make clear agreements about what the school provides you and what you provide as an input yourself........................................................................................................................................................................................... I admit that I think it is a step too far to do that genericly, but I do think that we can learn from what is happening at Windesheim. If that can also be successful in a number of other places, you can talk to me about the binding study advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u266	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u267	What is happening there will undoubtedly be very good, but that ignores the fact that the CDA was always in favour of binding study advice and more measures, when we could just let that go. We can ensure that institutions receive sufficient funding and that students can also get something from time to time. Institutions can make their own arrangements about courses that you can possibly take with you to another course. It doesn't have to be a problem to miss a number of points in your first year if you can just make the appointment with your study advisor that you will walk into the next year. My proposal would be: let's just stop imposing all these extra rules; let's just make sure that institutions are more free and that funding also takes a little longer than the four years ahead. This prevents a lot of bureaucracy and makes students responsible for the course of their own studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u268	I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Molen on his introduction so far. We also think it is a good idea to open the 21+ test more widely. I'll ask about that later. As far as the binding study opinion is concerned, I am, of course, simply pleased that Mr Van der Molen is drawing up a kind of road map to a situation where we could no longer need it. I have a question about your intention with this. Of course, that term "binding" suggests that it is binding, but you also have the term "advisory." Another piece of advice suggests something you can do with. Let's make sure it's a study opinion. Or you can make it, and if you don't make it, we'll make a plan together to make it. That's the flow-through approach that I think you're in favour of. Is it also your aim that it actually becomes a study opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u269	I'd like to go a little further than advice. This is what we advise you to do, and with that, you can do whatever you want. In practice, I think it is important to make agreements for your next academic year about what the institution can do in that process and what can be expected of a student. Because you can expect something from students in terms of commitment to reach the second year of study, for example. But that is indeed a nuance of this bindingness, which we now know with the binding study opinion. In an earlier debate, I indicated that I would be in favour of looking at the funding of higher education in a very different way, with a student being much more able to determine his own pace in consultation with the institution. I'll fit this in there, too. I have already said at that time: in such a system, a binding study opinion is quite another thing, and that might well lapse. But the good experience that is now being gained in Zwolle, we should try out in a number of places. If that is really so successful, it could be better applied as far as we are concerned. Because in the end, as a CDA, it's all about the student making it to the finish line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u270	Rounding up. I see that many students are particularly concerned about the binding study advice this year. I would like to look with you at how we can now open this discussion. Compliments for the way you do it here. Do you also see that it is specifically this year that we have just heard the new measures again, but fortunately without any restrictions on higher education that may become more difficult for freshmen to get that BSA and that we should make sure that people are not getting restless and insecure now because they see BSA hanging over their heads like a sword of Damocles?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u271	Just to quote the press conference: the Prime Minister began to say that nothing changes for education. I know that goes very well with the schools. I would like to add that there are large groups who have looked at the press conference in a very different way, because they will be able to close their case for a fairly long period from 10 p.m. tomorrow evening and are in great uncertainty. So in addition to the reassurance there is now in education, I think we should also appoint that group. I thought it was one of the better proposals put forward by the Minister, together with the educational institutions, to look at the BSA in a very different way in this time of crisis. My expectation is that the problems will increase. This has to do with the fact that in the previous academic year the average student still had about six months of regular education and was fully dependent on digital education in the second half of the year. The current academic year will be completely digital, and that has its own challenges. That is why I think I began unanimously with you to ask the Minister: how do we actually prepare ourselves for the problems that we see ahead for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u272	I often listen rather selectively, so what has stuck with me is the opening that Mr Van der Molen offered for the disappearance of the binding study opinion. But I'm also standing here for the things I may not have fully understood. This is mainly about what is happening at Windesheim. I know most of the good stuff comes from Zwolle. I also see a minister nodding here. But what exactly is the status of the appointments? Are we talking about the form of a contract, which really says at the end: you haven't met certain things, so you're still leaving? Then it's a kind of continued BSA. Or are we talking more about this: these are the joint agreements and the fact that they are made gives enough courage already. I'm kind of looking for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u273	I use the word 'agreement' because I think it is very important that both the institution has duties vis-à-vis the student and the student has duties. The quality in education is compound quality: as a student you also deliver your input. I think that's part of that. That does not mean that I do not think students should continue to muddle on an institution forever. I therefore believe that the institution should at some point say: to this point and no further. The point of difference is very strong whether that is with a binding study advice in the first academic year or that you can go to the second year at some point. In cases where a student gets very few credits in the first year and you could really say with certainty that this is just a task you can't make, you have another conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u274	I see some movement. We don't quite agree yet, but there's hope, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u275	There's always hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u276	I'm just looking. I know the example of Windesheim, but what would be the reason to intervene here in the choices that an institution can make? 'Cause that's where we put this, of course. Will Mr Van der Molen from above, from The Hague, impose on the institution how to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u277	Mr Wiersma should not see it as a requirement, for example, for a particular course of training from above. Not in that variant, but more in the variant that I advocate to gain this kind of experience in Zwolle, in more places in the Netherlands. One swallow doesn't make a summer yet, so I'd like to see very carefully whether that way we could also work wider in education. That's what I'm talking about. In addition, I put it behind the comma: for me this does not mean that we immediately abolish the BSA. But if that variant can be really wide-rangingly successful, then I want to seriously think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u278	Yeah, they're busy outside. It's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u279	Okay, then I understand Mr Van der Molen a little better. But is it a kind of best practice to bring out more and encourage institutions to try that too? Or would you say after that that they should try?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u280	Encouraging best practices is always the language of drivers who do not know what to do and want to show them as if they are doing something. The point is more: if I want to get here, I'd really like to just look at it in a few places more in the form of an experiment. This means that an experiment is started, as we do with other experiments, for example with the PhD students. Institutions can subscribe to this and say: we want to start with this either entirely or with a few training courses. I see such a variant for me, because then we can also learn from it organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u281	Finally, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u282	Last question, Mr President. I am also curious how Mr Van der Molen sees this in a broader perspective of the number of students who opt for scientific education. There's more and more of them. We see, of course, influx of international students, about 9% to 10%. We'll find some of that ourselves. But I'm curious what this means if you offer more opportunities to become successful in your education. Does this mean anything to you at the gate? Shouldn't we be there to see who we're letting into education? We're seeing more and more pressure. We see a low contribution from the government. We see teachers who say: I already have a hard time getting strong; the research has to do so, and that is a negative spiral. Is the debate still under discussion or does Mr Van der Molen say: well, I guess; I don't have much with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u283	Mr Wiersma talks about a lower contribution. I note that this cabinet has also invested heavily in higher education and in science. I'm not an opponent of selection. I can differ on how you do that. Together with D66 I have put forward a proposal to enable drawback, for example, at the level of training. Of the way you're selective, you can find something, but I'm certainly not opposed to being selective in higher education institutions. But when certain groups are structurally duped by it, for example boys in selection interviews because they are not as fast as the ladies who want to do the training, I find it more logical to make the choice by drawing lots.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u284	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u285	Mr. Chairman. If the corona conditions allow it, we're going to have another debate about the loan system in this house at a later date. At his farewell, former MP Duisenberg said: "This is how the loan system was created in a constructive coalition with Mohammed Mohandis when MP for the Labour Party Paul van Meenen and of course Jesse Klaver under my terrace heater in my backyard. I'll recite it one more time, Mr. Chairman. I do so at the request of Mr Futselaar, who asked outside the microphone: from whom? I therefore see that as an interruption of his mind. Mr Duisenberg said: this is how the loan system was created in a constructive coalition with Mohammed Mohandis, Paul van Meenen and, of course, it was apparently necessary to mention this under my terrace heater in my backyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u286	This calls for an interruption by Mr Van Meenen. Were you there, Mr. Van Meenen? Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u287	Well, this listens very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u288	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u289	It listens very closely where the comma is. 'Cause that terrace heater, that was just that Clover. I wasn't there, and neither was Mohandis. So I'd like that to be noted for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u290	It's in the Acts, Mr. Van Meenen. Mr. Kuzu, were you there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u291	Otherwise, would Mr Van der Molen like to repeat it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u292	Yeah, yeah, Mr Kuzu kindly requests me, Mr President. MP Duisenberg said that the loan system was created in a constructive coalition with Mohammed Mohandis, Paul Van Meenen and of course Jesse Klaver under my terrace heater in my backyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u293	Mr. Chairman. I only note that the students in particular were in the cold in the end. I can say from this place on behalf of the CDA that it's hard to say that it's the architects of the loan system who don't know how fast they need to get the terrace heater out again. But that must have been moving insight and, in some cases, putting a well-chosen bomb under Jesse Klaver's life's work, as my good former colleague Zihni Özdil did at GroenLinks. That, by the way, came to him that same week at a minute-long reprimand of D66, the liberal party who in the meantime started to share the linearity of the SGP in a ballot box agreement. And all that's true, but as a CDA, I'm just glad to see that other parties have wanted to be convinced in four years, sometimes against remembrance and joy, that the loan system was a costly mistake. So let's tear down the loan system after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u294	After this nice cabaret by Mr Van der Molen it is good to get to the core and look at the alternative of the CDA. Because that is what everyone here is waiting for most: ChristenUnion, GroenLinks, Partij van de Arbeid, D66, SP, SGP and I can now report that 50PLUS and DENK have also joined that ballot box agreement. They do have an alternative, but what will the CDA do? The previous times you wanted to raise the interest rate and abolish the scholarship for the master but retain it for the bachelor. But what's it gonna be this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u295	I remember that this proposal for an increase in interest rates was made with the agreement of D66 and was killed in the First Chamber, so it is a good thing that Mr Paternotte reminded me of that. In fact, the CDA's previous election programme was consistent from day one: against the loan system and before the launch of the basic grant. That is what I see now in other parties. We are also in favour, for example, of maintaining the university-year card for students, which has been discussed in the past. Our election programme is yet to be published. In general it always comes just a bit later than that of D66, but with that it is often much better. But I have good hope that we have not changed so much in this area. I congratulate you on the change you've been through. That is the essence of my question, and it is also a compliment to you, and you, as D66, offer openness to abolish the loan system in the following period. I have not seen this openness so far, and I am just extremely happy to see that you have taken the step from front to against the loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u296	So a compliment to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u297	Sure! To Mr Paternotte. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u298	Mr Van der Molen is in a cabinet with two parties who wanted to continue with this system in the formation of the cabinet, so that it remained the same. But it would be nice if all those parties that are coming up with plans next time wouldn't leave it alone with plans. That is also why Mr Van der Staaij came to Mr Jetten and said: let's see what we can do together. So can I also get your signature under that ballot box agreement so that next time we do not get the same result as you did last time, namely that nothing changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u299	I would find it reassuring as a younger student and as a student that D66 has joined other parties to keep its own promise. 'Cause you took a big step. Ú makes a big step. The voter does not need an additional guarantee from the CDA when it comes to the position on the loan system. That has been consistent from a to z. So all I have to do is sign my own election programme so that you can guarantee that I will enter the negotiations with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u300	May I perhaps ask what is going to happen at the end of this period, so after a number of years of the debate requested by Mr Futselaar, the most important result that you have achieved on that loan system, apart from the positions of other parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u301	One of the most important results was to agree on the coalition agreement. I was happy about that. I then discussed with D66 and VVD. I found the Christian Union on my side as an opponent of the loan system. The other two parties were different. At that time there was a majority in the Chamber for this, because at that time GroenLinks and the Labour Party, who fortunately now have a different position, still supported that system. And I think there was an agreement on that. I was very happy that, for example, we managed to halve the tuition fees in the first year of college. This gave the average student €1,000 less student loan. There have been many politicians who have promised €1,000, but have never realised that. We really had this done in a few months and I'm still very happy with it, especially because you got that discount in the second year when you did an education course. And that's what D66 likes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u302	With all the joy that Mr Van der Molen expresses for the repentance he perceives at D66, it still sounds a bit reproachful from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u304	Does Mr Van der Molen not agree with me that he should rejoice in the reversal, the conversion, the repentance of a fellow man? For it is then guided. If that is in conjunction with the straight line SGP, you could be particularly pleased. But I would also like to make an extra effort to speed that path up. If I were to make a plea in my speech to take a step forward this year, would you be prepared to take a positive view of the idea of meeting the current victims of the loan system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u305	I do not need to explain to Mr Bishop that, despite the fact that there is a point that your sins are forgiven, you may still live from the realization that you have been sinful and are also inclined to remain sinful. Then a repeated remembrance will always be in order for Mr Bishop to recognize it. Then there is the second point. What can we do for the students who are now victims of the loan system? I await Mr Bishop's proposals. I think a lot of colleagues have come to know me over the last four years as someone who wants to cooperate in everything we have managed to fight for each other in the field of the loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u306	Indeed, Mr Van der Molen's first reflections are all to the core. Relentless to all evil, that's how we confess. But the moment someone has repented, they do not want to persevere in evil. He will therefore take the path of improvement and take real action as soon as possible. In this respect, it is in favour of making all this gesture in this budget this year. I understand that Mr Van der Molen is going to take a good look at that, so that perhaps we can do a lot of good together in silence. So we can mean a lot to others and give them the opportunity to repent. And we can also give the practice hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u307	I can only say amen to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u308	That's all nice and nice. It is good that we can laugh about this, but I also find the pointing finger a bit annoying. It's true. GroenLinks was one of the parties in favour of the loan system. But we've always done it in an honest way. If I look at the CDA's previous credit transfer, I can see that you were indeed in favour of maintaining the basic grant, but also that on the other hand you cut students by a discount on the lump sum, by a discount on the supplementary grant and indeed by increasing student interest rates. That was a total of 500 million. That was in the bill, but it wasn't in the election program. If we are going to talk about this, I would ask Mr Van der Molen to ensure that the next time he comes up with his plans, there is not another sneaky cut in the CPB bills, on those same students and those higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u309	I don't recognize this sketch at all. We had in the previous election programme: the return of the basic grant to the bachelor's phase and the maintenance of the O/V annual card. Our new election programme is yet to be published. That'll be the end of the month. I have good hope that we will be able to continue that line with each other. I can understand how GroenLinks feels, but I have also complimented you here, and I have done so in previous debates. I have worked with all the groups that at some point wanted to improve something for students whether it was GroenLinks, Party for Labour or SP, even though I had made a coalition agreement that would not undermine the loan system at all. I've defended that signature every time. To point the finger from GroenLinks to the CDA, as if that had not taken into account the position of students, I find that far-fetched too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u310	No, I'm asking you to tell the whole story. It is true that GroenLinks and D66 were at the cradle of the loan system. But we were the parties that invested more than the CDA in higher education. I would now like to ask Mr Van der Molen: next time you include that basic grant in your election programme, which is a good idea, do not take any sneaky cuts that come to light in the accounts, such as a discount on the lump sum and on the supplementary grant and also the increase in student interest rates. That was in the CDA's bank transfer last time. Let us be honest about it: net investment in education, which does not show that there are also sneaky cuts on those students. With this supplementary grant, they are also the most vulnerable students.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u311	I never have a problem with putting forward both points that people can be positive about and points that people are critical of. There was an interest rate increase in the CPB pass-through figures that eventually ended up in the government agreement, with our argument that if borrowing costs €0, you will do nothing but hunt down maximum borrowing at the expense of young people's debt position. That was our argument. Then I'm gonna stand for that, too. That's not the point at all. The point I am highlighting here is that I am very pleased that there is no majority in this Chamber for maintaining the loan system and that we can move together to the elections, in whatever composition, to ensure that this lending system is called into question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u312	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u313	And my question to Mr Van der Molen was whether he would also like to ensure that the CDA does not sneak in on the cuts in the bills that go back to those same students.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u314	There are never sneaky cuts in a pass-through account, because it can be followed by anyone, but if D66's call is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u315	GroenLinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u316	To have an ambitious electoral programme when it comes to higher education, and certainly the reversal of the loan system, you have my promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u317	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u318	Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Vrije Universiteit announced that after a hundred years the Dutch Bachelor's programme will be discontinued, because there is not enough interest. The Netherlands is losing its own language and we must not let that happen. Unfortunately, recent news has shown that this academic year only 200 Bachelor's students have started. And yet here we meet a minister who pretends to be a matter of free market forces: if no one wants to study Dutch anymore, then so be it. The CDA Group cannot accept that attitude. That is why I, together with GroenLinks, ask the Minister to support the Dutch programmes financially. I would like to have a reaction to that. That's how well we're working together, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Many more students abroad study Dutch than in our own country: about 14,000. Through the Taalunie, the Netherlands and Flanders are committed to allowing Dutch language and culture to be an export product and to support Dutch studies abroad. We do not invest much in this in a European perspective. At the moment, the Chair of Dutch is threatening to lapse in London and crowdfunding is seeking money to maintain it. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is unheard of that we deal with this so carelessly. We therefore want the Minister to make money available for this international Neerlandism. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In higher education, because of the shrinking numbers of students, institutions are increasingly committed to internationalisation. More and more numbers are being recruited, because mass is cash register. In the explicit example of the Saxion Hogeschool, the Minister has indicated that she agrees with this. This trend is undesirable to the CDA, because if the future of our education is in the hands of German students who come to study psychology in English in the Netherlands, then something really goes wrong. The CDA Group wants the Minister to come forward with proposals to maintain higher education institutions in regions with declining student numbers. What does the Minister think of the idea of taking into account the breadth of an institution and how many other institutions in the neighbourhood provide education? We understand that in February the Minister will come forward with proposals on the financing of higher education. That is why I am raising this point now. Speaking of which, when the Minister comes up with proposals to adjust the financing of higher education, we would like the Minister to pay explicit attention to two groups of institutions which are very often the victims of these redistributions. This is primarily about the Open University, which consists of purely dual programmes in its structure. It is always difficult to take that into account, but I would argue for that. And finally, the position of the four philosophical universities, very small universities, including the University of Humanistics, which are often overlooked in these large movements. I would very much like to receive a commitment from the Minister on those last two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u319	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The same Kwint thought he was just witnessing about the last divine service with more than 30 people. In that spirit, I'll continue with a dome, because it's not going well. In fact, things are getting worse at a fast pace. We do not know exactly how big the shortage of teachers will be, but whether the shortage of teachers is 10,000 or 20,000 fte, although that is a world of difference in the classroom, in every scenario this deficit leads to disasters. And I've said it before: I don't blame this cabinet for having a teacher's shortage. I blame Rutte and Verhagen's cabinet for that. I blame Rutte and Asscher's cabinet for that. But what the SP does blame this cabinet is that, since its arrival, forecasts indicate that the deficit is still growing. All the packages, government agreements, workloads and so on had our support, but they have for the time being resulted in nothing more than a weakening of growth. In domestic terms, it's getting a little slower, but it's getting worse. We cannot accept this, especially when you see the consequences of the years of neglect of education: not only the shortage, but also burn-outs, class size, a quarter of children low-lettered, more and more home-owners and more and more parents take refuge in expensive tutoring institutions or even send their child to a totally private school. In the meantime, radio commercials are driving you crazy. It's not going well. In fact, things are getting worse at a fast pace. And then there's Corona, too. We have just had the press conference, and tomorrow this Chamber will be re-invigorated by the debate on this subject, but this is also a serious blow for education. Apprenticeships were lagging behind. And yes, distance learning has started at impressive speed, but more than ever, we can see that it is not a substitute for a real lesson from a real teacher in a real class with your real peers. And what are we seeing in the six months that should have been marked by 'the shoulders under' and the elimination of the backlogs? We are seeing massive loss of teaching because the government's test policy is not even nearly in order and the virus is rapidly catching on. We see teachers who are uncertain about their health. We're seeing classes drop out because teachers are waiting for their test results. We see teachers getting colds because they teach with the window open all day or, in the worst but increasingly common case, because they get corona. Let me start with a question about that. We have just been able to see the so-called Cabinet Roadmap at our dinner break at the press conference. What strikes me is that in none of the stages, even up to a total lockdown, the closure of schools in primary and secondary education is considered as an option. Let me be clear: no one is waiting for that. But in order to make it absolutely impossible in advance to say that we could end up in such a situation, I find it rather far-reaching. I am therefore looking forward to hearing the opinion of the cabinet on this matter. I think parents, students and teachers are entitled to that. Another, at least now even less visible as a result of the corona crisis, is the economic side. Zzp'ers have often been home without income for a long time. More and more people tell you that the company where they work goes bankrupt or has to fire people. That is a personal tragedy for a lot of people and a moment of uncertainty and fear, especially at a time when jobs are no longer at stake. We couldn't imagine it a year ago, but it's our reality now. Last year the cabinet talked about how it was so difficult to find people who would go to class, because everyone chose a job in the better paid business. I think it is ideological of all that we reward those who work for a shared interest more generously than those who work for the public interest, but I fear that we are not going to get out of this budget. What we can do is make the best of crappy circumstances. In this case, when people lose their jobs or see their businesses go bankrupt, we have to offer them a perspective, while at the same time, at the same time, my proposal is to do something about the shortages in education, but also about the shortages in care, where people are so badly needed, at the police or in childcare. A one-off offensive to tackle the backlogs in all these sectors; a large, ambitious plan; massive retraining for those who wish to do so. But really with the support of the government. So not a little support, but just: you don't pay tuition fees, you don't have to apply if you're in the WW or the welfare, and yes, we're also gonna see if we can do anything to meet you in your living expenses. Because if you lose your job, you can't just keep paying your mortgage or your rent. Besides, we don't want anyone to stop training when the crisis is over. That cost money? Yes, of course. Probably a lot, too. And you'll have to last another four or five years, otherwise those people won't be finished with their education. But with this, you can make the whole public sector much more future-proof, reduce the shortage of care staff and perhaps solve the shortage of teachers instead of each little bit. Moreover, you can help a lot of people through a complicated situation and save them from unemployment. Is the cabinet prepared to take a serious look at this and possibly make a plan for this? In the meantime, we can muffle the pond with all the reports on lifelong learning, which is not for nothing regular here I'll use the cleaned version "a lifetime of laughter." But now the need is for the man, now it's time for action. These people deserve it, and education deserves it. Because education is eager for more colleagues, but above all for perspective. Teachers crave to be able to believe that things will eventually get better. And I believe that this proposal is going to help. This also applies to another proposal which I would like to make today. Together with D66 we say: reduce the classes. Not only do we say that, but also educational unions, parents' organisations, teachers, actually the whole education system. Let's hope politics follows. That is why we come up with an amendment to this long-announced initiative law, so that classes become radically smaller. Is that settled tomorrow? No, of course not. I would like to, but that's not gonna work, because people are simply not there. But the way in which our education is now backburning is a vicious circle that needs to be broken. That circle begins with the shortage of teachers. As a result of the shortage, classes are increasing and the workload is increasing further. The result: more burn-outs, more outages, more people leaving education with pain in the heart behind. And so an even greater shortage of teachers. Any improvement in education begins with breaking this circle. The rest is a side issue. Appropriate education, the number of homeowners, the growing low literacy, the number of burn-outs: all this can be traced back to the shortage of teachers and the size of the classes. So, Minister, embrace our proposal. We'd care for a lot of writing. If you don't, I'll announce to you that we're going to write off that law ourselves. Work towards classes of, for example, 23 and at the beginning of the year I heard Mr Rog just now; I liked that very much with the use of extra resources and teachers, especially in the schools where the need is highest and where most children are already lagging behind. Are you willing to do that? Are you also prepared to embrace, in the context of teachers' schools, our amendment to save the teacher grant at least this year? Honestly, I am not thrilled with the coverage, because it is a bit of a cigar out of my own box money for teacher training is now going to the up-skilling of teachers, while, to put it bluntly, a miscommunication between the Chamber and the government that money has been taken away politically, but more importantly, I think it is just a solution now. You know us: as a cabinet and a coalition, we are willing to play a constructive bridge role. Of course, together with GroenLinks and the PvdA, we also have a proposal to close the pay gap. In addition, the SP has a proposal to achieve a wage increase throughout the foundational education system. Why? Because these deficits are still increasing, because it is fundamentally unfair that these people in the front line of the public sector are not getting better rewards. Yes, we pay that by a small increase in the tax on income above €150,000. $150,000, that's an awful lot of money. That's so much money, that MPs don't even earn; and they really make a lot of money! Ask yourself, where does this money come into its own better, in the bank account of someone who earns even more than a Member of Parliament, or in a teacher's paycheck? If you look deep into your heart, I think you can say nothing but: we must embrace this proposal. In addition, the whole foundational education deserves a raise. In secondary education, too, there is an increasing deficit. You can also see, recently in McKinsey's research, that wage developments there were even lower than in primary education in recent years. Hence my second amendment. I'll cover that with the bank tax. That is a very logical choice, I do not even have to explain here. Investing so heavily also means that you can ask for something back from the education itself and certainly from the teachers. First: send an email every day to the Ministry with the daily consequences of the shortage of teachers and what happens to the classes that didn't have a teacher. We've talked about it so many times now. The motion is one and a half years old. Make that site, execute my motion, we want this information. But you can also expect something from drivers in the financial field. For years we have been asking for clarity about what is happening to our educational money. All we know is that billions remain on the shelf and that we have a very limited view of what is happening to that money. I remember one of the first sets of parliamentary questions I asked Sander Dekker, the former Secretary of State for Education. Yes, it hasn't gotten any better since then, the functioning of that Secretary of State, of course. Those questions were about the number of extra janitors and teachers who had been hired with money from the autumn agreement. A big press release: more money for janitors and teachers. For six months, let us ask you questions about how many extra janitors and teachers have been hired, and the answer was: that is not how we arranged education funding in our country. Good enough for a press release but not to keep track of what eventually happens to that money. The Chamber went through a whole range of hearings, participation sessions and an investigation of an expensive consultancy firm but little changed. And this while the reactions we received to our proposal on the lumpsum and the chamber inquiry on the lumpsum exactly revealed the problem. 95% of the directors were very excited about the lumpsum because they are closer to the field than The Hague and then only 5% of the teachers who are actually in the field were enthusiastic about that lumpsum because they didn't see much of that supposed spending freedom. They didn't see the benefits and they were afraid the money would end up in the bank. And I'm afraid they're right. We've been consulting for years now, requesting information, threatening to intervene. Then let's make those choices today, Thursday if necessary. At least come up with that minimum percentage that drivers have to spend on teachers. This ensures more and better paid teachers and less reserves. And, because the Minister is going to do this, do not come up with the argument that a minimum percentage means that schools are going to spend less. I'm not even that cynical about educators. They now have a whole bag of money they can do whatever they want. If there is an obligation to spend part of it on teachers, would they spend less on teachers at once? That reasoning is untenable. So you're gonna have to choose this and take a shot at that lump sum. The money is really better spent there than at an expensive head office without students or with a shelf in the bank. It has also dealt with the reserves in, for example, partnerships. Last week Mr Van Meenen said something interesting about this. He said: the law states that shortages must be dealt with by school authorities and that is why these reserves are illegal in any case. Well, I find that interesting. I can't wait to see how the Minister sees that. But whether they're illegal or not, they're undesirable anyway. The same is true of the billions on school boards. I would like to believe that it is difficult to budget if there is sometimes an arrangement and sometimes an arrangement disappears, but these shifts in recent years have not even been nearly enough to justify the billions of reserves that exist in education. The Minister said earlier that he cannot simply take money that he gave away earlier, and that seems to me to be a very sensible starting point and legal principle. You can see if, when money is not spent the year before, you can threaten with a discount for the year after. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Will there have to be billions in education? Sure, but then you also have to look at how the money that is being spent here is now being spent. So step aside from all those teachers who let you know nothing in this lumpsum, trade unions and the field of work and embrace this proposal. We have also talked a lot about the teacher's autonomy and how, for example, it is difficult to safeguard the curriculum course in the case of all kinds of educational renewals or now the curriculum course to take the teacher's participation and autonomy as a professional seriously. Sometimes it goes a little further on the MBO. Mr Beertema has already mentioned it. What freedom does a teacher have to criticize his or her master of bread? We have all been able to read how an MBO teacher was dismissed after writing, anonymously and not traceable to her own educational institution, a book in which she criticized made choices: skipped personalized learning at her school. She was fired. That's impossible, isn't it? You're completely powerless. First, your employer ruins the working relationship. Then he goes to court to get you fired. If that does not happen immediately, another judge says: yes, but this trial has made the mutual working relationship so impossible that we can only allow this resignation. That's completely untenable, isn't it? Does the cabinet share that the position of teachers will really need to be strengthened vis-à-vis a director? And what are you prepared to do about it? Finally. For years, we've been working on the income position of MBO teachers. Function mixes, pay mixes, reserves: it's all rather complicated. What is clear for the SP is that there is too little money coming from the teachers and too much hanging from the bow, especially at the mbo. When will we finally get the report on the job mix and the pay mix, and can we fix this problem as a room? The rest of this speech, including the need for compensation for MBO students, will be made by my colleague Mr Futselaar. In any case, I would like to give the Minister the following information. Others were ahead of me with an amendment. I know the Minister as someone very much involved in attracting a broad audience for the arts and culture. Honestly, I don't think the average visitor at a lot of cultural institutions is an MBO. That is precisely why the MBO card is such a beautiful instrument, and that is precisely why I would like to say: support the amendments tabled by my fellow Members. I think we'll make it more beautiful for the arts and culture and for the mbo'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u321	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as higher education is concerned, today I will only talk about corona. I will express my joy at the ongoing insight into the loan scheme in the debate on the loan system we have planned, even if only because with a bit of luck the VVD will be over by then, because it has been hard the last few months. Corona controls higher education right now. This has been the case for the past year and will be the case next year. I think it is appropriate to talk about this in particular in the budget. The virus is currently showing the strength and weaknesses of our higher education system. It is now almost a cliché to emphasize how great it is that education, albeit largely digitally, has been able to continue, almost from the beginning. But I do, because some things are worth repeating. That is also true in this case. That achievement is not only in the way in which in those first chaotic months art and flying things have gone digital and have been kept running by teachers, support staff, students, cleaners and also drivers, but also in how that happens now. Doing it for a few months is easy, but now we're in the next year and it's still not gone. You still have to crawl behind your laptop instead of really giving or getting physical lectures. Everyone here knows how big that difference is. We can do a lot in this Chamber, but we can't do what they want, which is to go back to normal. Mr. Chairman. We can see what we can do to make it less bad. I just said that corona makes the weaknesses of our system visible. I mean, for example, the cannibalisation by institutions of their own staff, especially at universities. The combination of growing student numbers, struggle for research money and time and precarious work situations makes the workload so high that the alarm bells have been ringing for years. Those are the people we are asking to carry out additional tasks in the front lines, and then keep everything running. And they're doing it. Not for us, by the way, let there be no misunderstanding about this, but for the students. I hate the term "human capital" or "human capital," but in so far as that term goes, you lose it when you deal with capital irresponsiblely. The same applies to human capital. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of weaknesses of the system. Not so long ago we discussed possible exemptions for universities so that they could keep their postdocs and PhD students in service a little longer than the four-year term. I'm really in favour of a pragmatic approach, so if that's what it takes, we should do it. But let's be honest: the real, underlying problem here is that flex jobs are the norm at our universities. That's three or four years I've been in this room, not a splash of change. I would like to ask the Minister whether she recognizes the picture that, despite good intentions, this situation has not changed for the better. Those overworked teachers are now converting all their lectures into digital education and at the same time we are right to call on them to try to keep education physically where possible. I have to confess that during the press conference I sighed a small sigh of enlightenment when I heard that at least not the last physical lectures should now be digital. But that has practical consequences. Because a class of 36 is now physically becoming a class of 8. A lecture of 200 now becomes a lecture of 50. That means more teaching hours for the same subject if you want to do it physically. That means more space for the same subject. So institutions will have to hire more people and rent more rooms. And if they do, I hope they do, and I will appeal to them that they do, and that costs money. In an earlier debate, the Minister said something like: we are going to see what it cost in the spring and we are really not letting them get away with it. I'm paraphrasing a little bit, but that's basically what it's all about. However, I have tabled an amendment with additional resources for this. I would like to explain that. First of all, I think that institutions would be easier to spend money now if they knew it was there. I don't think they'd rather spend money promising it's gonna happen. At least that's how I'm generally like myself. This certainly applies to universities with their research expenditure. I want them to spend money now, so that I can appeal to them, so that other MPs and I can say: listen, you have to make an extra bet now, because we have arranged money for you. Thirdly, this also offers a lot more participation to stand up, to say: yes, we want extra commitment; the money has been made available, so that cannot be the problem. That they say: board, bring butter to the fish, so that what can physically go physically, of course, within the standards of public health safety. We can send on very little when it comes to corona and education, but we can send on money. So let's do what we can. Hence an amendment from my hand. Mr. Chairman. The last weak link of this system, made more visible by corona, is the difficult financial position of young people in general and of students in particular. Fortunately, more attention has been paid to this than before in recent months. You would almost forget that two years ago a proposal for an increase in interest rates on the loan system was discussed. I still had a sentence in it, Mr. Chairman! But I don't want to talk about that. That financial situation is compounded by corona. Jobs in the hospitality industry fall away, regulations do not or hardly apply to students and besides, it is not very nice to be a student. Hence an amendment for a one-off allowance for students, not to give them money back because education would not be enough, but because this is an effective way of helping a group that is very difficult. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Apologies for the 12 seconds of overtime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u323	No, that's fine. Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u324	Mr President, I see that you have given me ten minutes. Sympathetic. I only asked for nine. Mr. Chairman. March 15th this year: the school doors are closing. A decision I, and I don't think anyone here, ever expected to be involved. Teachers then work with man and power to achieve distance learning as quickly as possible. And yet in the weeks that follow, the inequality of opportunity becomes painfully visible. Students either disappear from the radar or cannot follow distance learning because they do not have the Internet at home. And just the children for whom school is the finest and the safest place, are the hardest hit. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis increases the existing problem and puts our noses on the facts. Low literacy among young people is increasing, and the level of education is increasingly hereditary. The shortage of teachers is increasing and is particularly affecting schools with the most vulnerable pupils. This affects society as a whole. We're missing talent, we're fixing a lot, but growing up in our own bubbles. Despite the extra money that has gone to education in recent years and for which D66 has always been committed, these problems continue. We see that money alone is not enough to reverse this tide. The wound's too deep. The Band-Aids, no matter how beautiful, don't help. That is why we have started to write an educational vision, our response to the call for a national approach to improvement, a vision of the future with a high ambition. What do we want to offer our children for education? If you know what the terminal is, you also know which switches to convert on the way. Over the past 20 years, education policy has too often had a change of heart, a delay or a confused person on the track. I really like him myself, but I didn't think of him myself! This is why the relationship between education and politics has fallen to zero. That's why we went on a school trip through the Netherlands for a year. In teachers' rooms, in classrooms and in school squares, we talked about new, higher ambitions for education. This vision of education offers sixteen pointers to provide the best education for each child. By better rewarding teachers and giving them more time, by preventing delays through free childcare, by the enriched school day for pupils, by late selection, by the customized diploma, by including education and by sending the money to schools rather than by driving. I would like to offer you all the book of the vision of education, in the hope and conviction that after 16 March we can scratch off the D66 logo and at least if politics can agree on one thing: strong foundational education, a better basis for a better future. That's what we need. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he has taken note of this vision and of his initial reaction to it. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we have also managed to arrange extra money, fortunately, but also to cope with the impact of the corona crisis in education; from government and society for laptops and internet connections, but also 282 million for preventing and combating backlogs in primary and secondary education and MBO. I hear sounds that the responsibility for this must be very thorough, namely up to the level of each individual pupil, and that whole coordination teams must be put on that responsibility. I can think of a better use of these resources. Mr. Chairman. In addition, there is €360 million to improve the ventilation of school buildings, so that students and teachers can work in a healthy environment. How does the Minister ensure that schools can update ventilation systems as soon as possible? A lot of students are starting to get fresh this season, with the windows open and wet-rained clothes. It can't go on like this. Mr. Chairman. D66 also has concerns about this school year and the developments around corona, for example about the final exams. Last year it was decided not to pass the central exams and schools had to take school exams in a short time. D66 wants to avoid this stress and uncertainty among teachers and pupils and prepare them already. We propose to spread the central exams over two months, May and June, and to change the weighting between central exam and school exam, for example to 30/70. Does the Minister expect us to be able to take hundreds of students in a gymnasium at the same time in May? What about practice exams in VMBO? How does the Minister get good exams in VMBO? Does the Minister agree with D66 that spreading exams would also help to achieve more preparation time for students who have missed classes? When is the Minister going to offer teachers and test candidates any assurance about this? Mr. Chairman. Then the teacher's scholarship. In these times of shortage of teachers, the adaptability shown by teachers in distance learning and the broad revaluation of the public sector, I find it very crooked that the government has made a mistake, which means 2,400 grants have not been honored this year. I do not want to deal with these most motivated teachers, who want to put time and effort into professionalizing their profession and themselves. Is it known how many teachers have paid this out of their own pocket and how many teachers have not started it at all? If not, can the Minister sort this out as soon as possible? What can the Minister do to carry out my motion and meet these teachers as quickly as possible? His solution to give them priority next year will allow the problem to drag on for another year, because new applications will not be able to be met. Mr. Chairman. We are going to discuss appropriate education in detail in a later debate, but I do not want to leave it unnamed here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u325	I would like to come back to the previous point, the keys. I can very well sympathise with Mr Van Meenen that it is important for children to have a good final exam and thus to be able to finish their school. Good thing D66 also cares about the tests, especially if you look at the numbers we've got. The success rates last year were between 1% and 20% higher per school type. You put the question to the Minister whether he wants to settle that, but I think we should just settle this, so I was wondering whether, regardless of whether the Minister is making a commitment on this right away, you at least have a motion in your pocket or have thought about shaping it this week. Because if we want to settle this, it must be done at this time, otherwise the preparation time until May/June is simply too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u326	That's exactly why I'm bringing it up now. It is right for Mr Heerema to say so, because schools also know that I need a lot of time to shape the exam, but at the moment the government has already set the exam dates. If we want things to be different, things will have to happen. That must also be done now. I shall wait for the Minister's reaction first. I think that is so nice, but I certainly do not rule out asking for a ruling from the Chamber in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u327	Solid. I have a question about another subject, the teacher's scholarship. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that teachers should not pay for a mistake by the government. I would even like to congratulate him on the commitment he has made so far to get this settled. But now to make the call "what else can the Minister do?" I think it's very skinny, because you've asked me that before. Then the minister came back with a letter and said: "I turned the entire budget, the whole ministry, inside out and opened all the drawers. I'm sorry. Mea culpa. We'll do our best not to let this happen again, but I can't do anything." What does D66 expect the minister to pull out of the top hat?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u328	This is the last opportunity to see if it can be resolved differently than, for example, Mr Kwint himself proposes. We could do the same. I could have done that, but I'm in a slightly different position. I'm just gonna ask you one more time. The day after tomorrow, we'll know. Well, that's the last chance. If there's an answer that makes us all happy, so am I. If not, we will indeed have other means. But I would also point out to Mr Kwint that if we are going to make an amendment to the budget, it will be about next year. My question is still about this year. An amendment would not solve the problem directly, but Mr Kwint is aware of that. Moreover, a problem must be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u329	That is indeed the problem and also the madness of the whole budgetary system. We have a problem now. We now want to put forward a proposal that will enable us to resolve it, but this budget is about next year. If we still want to change something this year, ironically, we have to do it with the autumn note, with the negative side effect that you would have a few months less to get that money spent. That's right. I do think that when we all say 'we reserve that money', the Ministry has a lot more room to say: okay, then we are going to try to spend it as soon as possible. But I agree with Mr Van Meenen. I mean, if the Minister comes up with a solution between now and Thursday, at least we will go home satisfied on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u330	Yeah, sure. That would be very nice. I asked the Minister: how many teachers have paid this out of their own pocket? I talked to a couple of them last week. Those are really poignant stories of people who continue to invest, who put €11,000 into it themselves and who also work less every week for a day, so have less income. Yeah, you know, if sometime in this school year there's a compensation for that, I think we've already achieved a lot. Anyway, I asked and we're gonna hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u331	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u332	Mr. Chairman. We are going to discuss appropriate education in a later debate, but I do not want to leave it entirely unnamed. Appropriate education is a complex bureaucratic knot where too much attention goes to meetings, forms and accountability, and too little to support students and teachers. This leads to absurd situations, huge frustrations and a savings fund that is now approaching the EUR 300 million, all money that did not end up with children and teachers. Not only do I say that, the Court of Auditors also states that it is unclear how this money is spent. That is a warning we received in 2013. In the meantime, nothing has changed. We were waiting for the final evaluation. We've seen it now. I am clear: D66 wants a strict upper limit on the savings reserves of the partnerships, preferably zero, so that at least the money is spent on education and care. Mr Kwint has already explained in detail why this zero could, as far as I am concerned, be possible. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the case of appropriate education, I would also like to mention practical education. I've been there several times this year. It's fantastic what's happening there. It is an example for everyone when it comes to how you put possibilities instead of limitations of people at the centre. As far as D66 is concerned, it remains an independent school type. I have a few questions for the Minister about this. D66 wants direct funding rather than through the partnership, while maintaining national criteria. I'd like a response. What would it cost? I believe that this question has already been asked by Mrs Westerveld in order to give the 16+ students in practical education an O.V. student card for school and internship? And how does the Minister view the possibility of offering entrance training in practical education? Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention the initiative law for smaller classes. Mr Kwint also mentioned them. We shall continue with that unsavoryly. You'll hear more about that. We're gonna dot the i's. Then I'll get to my last piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u333	I'll go to Mrs Westerveld first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u334	I have an answer to Mr Van Meenen's question about the pupils in practical education. If we wanted to give the students who attended entrance training an O.V. card, it would not cost 4 million. We have tabled an amendment on this. Mr Van Meenen can, of course, take part in that amendment. You could also get a bigger group. Then it costs about 10 million euros. You're helping a big group with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u335	Well, good to know. These kinds of amounts in the coalition... I can see the gentlemen nodding. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u336	This huge education budget may have something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u337	They also have a warm heart for these students. I'm sure of it. We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u338	I will be in touch with Mr Van Meenen after this meeting. My question is about appropriate education. It is right for Mr Van Meenen to say: let us move towards the reduction of reserves. But, of course, we have known for a long time that the introduction of appropriate education is not going well and that the number of homeowners is growing. There should therefore be more to it than just phasing out the financial reserves. Various proposals have been put forward from this Chamber, for example by me and I shall look back for a moment by the colleagues from the left. We have talked many times about appropriate education. We've made proposals a million times. So far, the coalition didn't see any room to vote for it. I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen whether this is going to change in the debate we are having on 16 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u339	Sure, but let's wait and see the Minister's policy response first. I look forward to that. But as far as I am concerned, this evaluation cannot be without consequences, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u340	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u341	I understand that Mr Van Meenen wants to wait for the policy evaluation, but I would like to point out to him that parents and students have been waiting a long time. Everything that we have heard so far, including the progress reports of this minister's predecessor, Secretary of State Sander Dekker, came up with the same thing. There are actually no surprises, not even in the evaluation we have seen today. I would like to give that to Mr Van Meenen. I would like to call for this not to be postponed for us, but to make sure that something changes will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u342	Totally. Those who have followed me in recent years in the debates on appropriate education... In fact, my party has even voted against its introduction. I have been extremely critical of this. We have made an agreement with each other, including in this coalition, to wait for the evaluation. It's taken me a lot of trouble once in a while. I'm glad we're finally ready. A few weeks to go and then we have the debate and we can take action. As far as I am concerned, that does not have to wait for another formation. We can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u343	Very briefly, Mrs Westerveld, because I think this has changed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u344	I know that Mr Van Meenen and his party voted against the introduction, but then Mr Van Meenen voted against all the proposals we have made over the last four years. I know the position in the coalition is tricky, but that's why this call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u345	This isn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u346	That's not quite right. There are several proposals, for example, about severely limited children... let me put it this way: Mrs Westerveld is failing herself here. Indeed, there are proposals, including those of hers, that have made it. That's always been through the support of D66. Of course, there are also those who could not make it because we could not go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u347	I understood from this part of Mr Van Meenen's contribution that he already wants to use this budgetary treatment to intervene in the reserve position of schools, including in the appropriate education. If I've misunderstood that, I'd like to hear it. We in the Chamber have been waiting for the evaluation. If we are going to intervene in the system of appropriate education, which seems logical to me at the moment, I would also agree that we are waiting for 16 November to do those interventions. Let us not now bring forward a number of things and still go shopping in what we all have to do, in my view, in total, on 16 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u348	I think it is a relative difference from the point of view of the partnerships, whether we do so or in a few weeks' time, but I do understand what Mr Heerema is saying. We will do it neatly, but I am also clear in the budget about where I want to land.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u349	I note that we now have the contribution on where this section D66 wants to land with appropriate education, but we are not going to take the steps for four weeks. I would simply like to pick up that overall, very difficult and difficult dossier at once. That's what we've been waiting for as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u350	However, I am a little more precise on the issue of reserves. Actually, I don't think that's part of the order. The question is whether you'll allow that at all. Mr Kwint has just asked the Minister whether he can do it at all. Perhaps it hasn't been possible for years that there are any reserves at all. Then I don't really want to wait a second. But that is not really the case for me... Let me put it this way: the evaluation of appropriate education has not mentioned this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u351	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u352	Finally, Mr President. In the transition to my good colleague Jan Paternotte, who goes on about further education, I would like to talk about the MBO students. They too do not have the best time to study. Internships are difficult and practice lessons do not go on, while they are exactly the most beautiful, fun and instructive parts of the study. It is important that we now do everything we can to offer the MBO students the best opportunities. That's why D66... you've just had that beautiful book with our educational vision. I can see the VVD colleagues browsing into it. I am very pleased with that. But of course we are not going to stop there. We have focused primarily on foundational education, including childcare, but we will also present a comprehensive plan for the MBO. But the budgetary treatment is simply too limited to do all that, so we will soon be presenting a vision of the MBO. We still have a wonderful debate on this in January, probably the last of this committee's debates. I look forward to that. That's gonna be a nice close. I am giving a shot at things that we are thinking of, among other things: of course, strengthening the position of the MBO students, abolishing the binding study advice within the MBO, tailor-made work within the initial qualifications, taking into account previously acquired competences, for example in havists and adults, and so I can continue for hours. But I've only got 50 seconds, Mr. Chairman, so I'm gonna leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u353	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u354	I have been delighted to read D66's election programme commitment and in particular how D66 wants to tackle the foundational education, with that rich school day and actually some other position of education in that local society. When I read that, I had this question: if it does result in a slightly different position, are you prepared to intervene on the pabo-training courses to better equip teachers for teaching in that school? But now I read in the booklet that we have just received, that teacher training must come into the hands of the profession. "They determine the content and establish the link between training and practice." Would you give it all out of your hands? Don't you want to be able to tell the government what to do on a pabo like that? What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u355	That's a good question. First of all, what Mr. Heerema has just read. It's kind of crazy. In the care sector, the training of new people in care is entirely in the hands of the profession. This determines the standards and quality and determines what the further training is. That's not true in education. There the whole education is in the hands of the ministers, the boards of the colleges and so on. I don't want to. That's one. Two is that we want separate training both for the young child and for the older child. We have already agreed that in the coalition agreement, but we are going a little further in our view. With the young child, I really think of children younger than what we now call school children, so 4 years to 12 years old, elementary school students. Then I would say: you can go from 0 or 2 years to 7 years and from 7 years to 14 years. In fact, I want to make both this link with high-quality childcare, aimed at development, and the link with this broad influx into secondary education. In doing so, I also want to create more opportunities for teachers in their careers. It is a somewhat longer answer, but the answer is: yes, I do want to intervene. The latter is therefore something you might have to do as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u356	You can see, for example, that a number of boards here in the western part of the country have taken over a pabo because they were not sufficiently satisfied with the quality of the training. But of course, as a government, we decide what comes into the curriculum, so what they need to be able to do to teach. My question to Mr Van Meenen is: is that the situation you want to see more in the pabo's training programme? I can imagine, when I read those D66 proposals, that you expect even more from a teacher and that he must be even better equipped to teach in that changing primary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u357	I've always expected a lot from teachers. I've never really been disappointed in that in all those years that I've seen it. But I do want to be able to equip that teacher even better for what's needed. I think there is currently a discrepancy between what people learn in teacher training or a pabo and what they need. That leads, among other things, to a lot of failure. We therefore make proposals for a much quieter start, much less teaching hours for start-ups and good guidance. There's a huge leak there. That is very unfortunate, because we both know that this is the most beautiful profession. MP is also quite nice, but teacher is really the nose of the woods.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u358	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u359	Yes, Mr. Chairman. You will be appointed honorary doctor, for which once again I congratulate you, including my public. But then you actually have the authority to teach about everything, I would almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u360	Well, I look forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u361	I'm sure you'll do well, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u362	As an educational spokesperson, I must object to the undermining of the powers we have agreed on in education, after what Mr Van Meenen says. Even if I have to say, if there is anyone I trust, it is the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u363	I was just gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u364	I'm counting on an extra interruption right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u365	Scumbag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u366	A nice vocational training for MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u367	All right, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u368	Mandatory, maybe. I liked the story of Mr Van Meenen. I haven't heard much of what I disagree with. My main comment was, however, that it was largely about the D66 electoral programme. But we are talking here today about the budget, the last budget of this cabinet. I am sure you will forgive me for asking you a little bit to take stock of the situation. 'Cause, yeah, there's money coming in. Yeah, a lot happened. But let me make one point: for example, the teacher shortage is now greater than the teacher deficit three or three and a half years ago. It would be impossible for D66 to be satisfied with the results of government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u369	That's right, we're not. I've never done anything complicated about that either. We really did the best we could. You'll have to take that from me. We have also achieved visible results, and to date we have achieved them in terms of, for example, the additional measures needed in corona time, including the shortage of teachers. They are sometimes temporary; I admit that immediately. By the way, I also hope that this is a temporary deficit. But, of course, we note in our election programme that this gap must be closed, that these salaries must be improved and that control must be increased. These are all essential things, which have not yet been achieved and which have not been done. But that doesn't mean I'm giving up. I'm not giving up at all. I never give up. Never Give Up Always Continue was a soccer club from Tilburg. I always hold on to that. So yes, I have also mentioned it in my story: of course there are things I am satisfied with and happy with, but on balance it has not been enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u370	I appreciate that sincerity. I have to correct you, because Never Give Up Always Continue was the beginning of an abbreviation that eventually became the NOAD-ADVENDO Combination, which eventually became NAC...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u371	Yeah, that'll be less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u372	... based in Breda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u373	Oh, I thought... well!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u374	I think you have a lot of explaining to do in Brabant right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u375	Let's look that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u376	You don't have to look it up; I've just explained it to you. That's explicit direct instruction, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u377	My question was something else, as you might suspect. For example, I just had a story about training. We have seen this in recent years, and it is not because of this cabinet that it was more difficult to find people for education, because a lot of people had jobs. A lot of people had a well-paid job. You can now see that a lot of beautiful companies are unfortunately going bankrupt because of the crisis and a lot of good people are losing their jobs. Could we look together to see how we can quickly support those people from the beginning so that they can get a quick education? Otherwise, they'll come home with benefits and maybe they'll want to go into education. And nobody's gonna do that if they have to pay $8,000 a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u378	No, but this cabinet invests enormously in and has a huge retraining package to prevent people from possibly losing their jobs. Surely it's not true that you wouldn't be eligible for that if you took that beautiful step to education? I do not know exactly what Mr Kwint is talking about, but at least that should make a huge contribution to retraining and further training. Of course, that can also go to other things, but also to education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u379	Finally, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u380	What I'm looking for is this. If people are now in this terrible situation of losing their jobs and now have to choose what they are aiming for over the next few years, then we should not say: here is a very wide range of retraining opportunities; choose whether you want to be a consultant as well as all those other people, or whether you are going into education. No, then we should actively encourage people to enter education by saying, for example, that you do not get a discount on your tuition fees; we pay that for you, provided that you go to work in education for as long as you do. We have a very big catch-up to make when it comes to shortages in education, in health care, in a large part of the public sector, in childcare, as you know. In my view, this could be a start to make sure that we are putting a big punch in that deficit for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u381	Of course that's what I'm here for. I would also like to pass on the question to the cabinet in order to give the precise details of the whole package that is in place and which is aimed at work-to-work guidance. For my part, Mr Kwint goes a little further. He also wants to take all kinds of measures that reduce the costs at all for everyone who takes that step. This cabinet has also taken a step forward by halving the tuition fees in the first two years. That's a step. It's a little bit: is the glass half full or is it half empty? One thing's for sure: there's a lot in there. It can always be more, so Mr Kwint finds me by his side, but I am not going to hand out free money here. I'm not in that position. Let's keep moving. Even after the elections, I would love to continue with education. Get crazy! Join us!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u382	Well, that's a nice invitation. Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Oh, Mr Bertema also has a question. Mr. Van Meenen! Mr. Van Meenen, your great friend is standing by...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u383	No, that's why!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u384	...Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u385	Ah! I thought I was missing something, but what was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u386	Well, you've been handing out books, and in the meantime, everyone's been reading that book.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u387	I'm not taking it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u388	Oh, can I give it back? No? Mr Kwint has already referred to it, but D66 does turn this budget treatment into a rather flat election circus. Mr. Paternotte takes the lead in reclaiming the basic grant, after you, Mr. Van Meenen, have passionately defended it. The elections are coming; that is clear. Now we get this book. It's handed out like you're Jehovah's witnesses or something, but I just mentioned it: State education on behalf of 66. I took that D off for a while. Can you imagine that a lot of people, at least in my constituency, think when they read this booklet: that D66 wants total control of our children, almost from the moment of the mother's shoot, including hot meals, accompaniment and sports, all within that 66-camp all day long. Do you recognize that criticism a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u389	There are people who have also asked me if I mean what you seem to think right now that I mean, that we are offering free childcare and a rich school day, so that children from the most vulnerable environments can get to know sports, culture and nature and get homework guidance. But that's not coercion, it's an offer. I hope it's such an attractive offer that a lot of people take advantage of it. If I may say one more thing about it: for example, the free childcare. So far, childcare has been financed mainly for people in employment. This means that you miss a very large group of people for whose children it would be very good if they were young in a language-rich environment. But it is and remains an offer, there is absolutely no state pedagogy or anything. I'm throwing that far from me, it's an offer for everyone. No compulsory education from the diaper either, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u390	But, of course, I do smell generic measures. Of course, there are very poignant examples here and there that children do not get enough to eat in the afternoon and that it is not justified what is in the breadbox. However, as a generic measure, you are in favour of having hot lunches throughout the Netherlands. Isn't that kind of a weird policy-making thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u391	I didn't have time to mention these beautiful parts of our program. I am glad that Mr Bertema is doing it. It is unpacked very quickly, but it does say: a hot lunch. During my school trip, I met children in many places who are really better at calculating if they have a decent meal once a day. We make 44 proposals in this story, of which I am well aware that we are not going to bring all 44 into the formation. There are always priorities. When it comes to hot lunch, perhaps we should start in Amsterdam-Zuidoost, where we were on the Blue Line, where children do indeed come to school without food, or find the cold fries of the previous day in their breadbox and really indicate that as a reason why they cannot learn well. First customization, as with extra payments to teachers: if we start somewhere, let's start with the schools and the children who need it the most. I think I can find Mr Bertema by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u392	That remains to be seen. My line would be much more, if that happened, that as a teacher, as a pedagogue, you'd have a good conversation with those parents. Finally, it is the responsibility of those parents to feed those children, which is very basic. Then why generic measures to prescribe that hot lunch all over the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u393	There are many very decent countries around us where this is the most normal thing in the world. It's kind of weird that we don't have this in the Netherlands. By the way, that is something we see a great deal about in child care. There, kids just get a meal at noon, and we don't think that's crazy at all. Only we find it very strange here, because we come from a very different tradition, but it is over. The same applies to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u394	For a moment I thought Mr Beertema had taken over my question, and then I had fallen. But Mr Van Meenen's answer is a bit dazzling. In one sentence, he brushes away the full responsibility of parents. That has to take care of the childcare, the school has to take over, the government has to take over. Mr. Van Meenen, you don't really mean that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u395	No, I don't mean that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u396	Where's the parents' position? I honestly haven't read the story yet. But where's the apple on the parents? Where is the support, through schools, if we choose to equip parents/carers to provide care for the children at the right level?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u397	Mr Bishop is creating a contradiction here. Suppose all parents in the Netherlands take very good care of their children. I wish that were true, but I can give a lot of examples where it is not, and at least that is not to blame the children, and then we already have a responsibility as a government anyway. But even if it were, I'd still like to... We also have a public offer. It's called "the school." You might as well say, "Why shouldn't parents count their children, French or know what to learn? Let them do that." No, we have a public offer of everything we want all children in the Netherlands to learn. There is a huge opportunity gap between children; Mr Bishop cannot deny that. It's just hereditary. It just matters where you were born for what your chances are in this country. It all depends on the position of parents. It is not only about whether or not the parents are willing to do something, but also about whether or not they have the opportunity to do so, also financially. Opportunity inequality, as I say to Mr Bishop, is just hereditary in the Netherlands. So that depends on your parents. We have a duty to ensure that this role, that position, that factor 'parent' which is decisive in it, does not lead to inequality of opportunity. That's why we need a good public offer for every child. That's an offer. So again, an offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u398	Of course we know the compulsory education in the Netherlands. Over 100 years, 120 years ago, the majority was introduced by one vote, thanks to Count Schimmelpenninck's horse. This is a provision which fills part of the responsibility of the parents. I think Mr Van Meenen agrees with me that it is the inalienable duty and the inalienable right of parents to raise the children. Part of that education is education. This is what we, as a society, consider so important that we say: "We take care of that part. That is what we offer and you have a duty to participate." But that is different from the other responsibilities that should be taken over by the educator, the parents and carers, and involved in education. Then it's important to provide and rest those parents, isn't it? Isn't that much wider than education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u399	I don't mind having parents, but I'm looking at kids as a teacher. That's what I'm dealing with. Mr Bishop refers to compulsory schooling. That is the way in which we have so far set up our system of offering education in the Netherlands. But I want to think from the law of learning. That is also well known. That is now in the coalition agreement and we shall see how that goes. Every child in the Netherlands has the right to the best education and I want to offer that right. That could be a lot more than we're offering right now. For some children that is really so necessary. I would almost say that Mr Bishop seems to live in a kind of bubble in which all children are doing well and at home is the best environment for them, but I tell you that there are also children in the Netherlands for whom home, especially when it comes to their development, is not the best environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u400	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u401	I want to offer them that they can develop well from an early age and that they have the same opportunities as children who grow up in a stable environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u402	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u403	Mr Van Meenen is now trying to paint the picture as if my remarks were a bit foreign to the world, as if I had the impression that all children live in harmonious and atmospheric families. Of course we know that this is not the case and of course you acknowledge that the government has a responsibility in it. But the question is how the government fulfills that responsibility. If we see those children and hear the stories you give as an illustration, your heart will bleed of course. I know those stories, too. Then you think, "Something has to happen." That's what I say as a pedagogue, as a parent and a grandparent. You recognize that. Only, you stand here as a politician, as a co-driver. You're presenting... Excuse me, Mr Van Meenen is presenting a plan of action as a sort of election programme. That's what he does as a co-driver. Then the question is: where does the responsibility of the co-driver, of the drivers, lie? Indeed, to the well-being of the children. But you don't do that by investing the well-being of the children at another agency, by taking it away from the parents and investing it with another agency. No, you do that by taking steps that equip the carers, the educators, to take their responsibility. That could be financial, that could be support, and you name it all. That is a fundamental point. I would like Mr Van Meenen to agree with me that it is the inalienable duty and the inalienable right of parents to raise children. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u404	Certainly, I agree with Mr Bishop. But there is also a duty for the government. I also appreciate Mr Bishop's attempt to convince me of his faith. Just kidding, Mr. Bishop. But we also look differently at the role of the government. I think, my party believes, that people are very free to make choices, but the freedom of education or the freedom of parents to make choices can never and should never, if it is up to me, be at the expense of their children. That's why I find: let everyone go, but no one falls. That's what I'm doing here. We offer a bed in which every child can develop. That is also a task of the government. That's how I look at it. You look at it differently. Well, I think the people who doubt between D66 and the SGP should make their choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u405	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u406	Just a moment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u407	Well, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u408	I fully endorse the point made by Mr Van Meenen, namely that the government also has a responsibility. Only, that's a derivative responsibility. The government has a responsibility to monitor the well-being of these children and to ensure that that well-being is also promoted. Only, a fundamental point of difference is: does the State have to take over or does the State ensure that welfare is taken care of?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u409	I'd like to respond to that. If he then lays the responsibility of parents, the boards of the schools in his circle are often run by parents, for which much respect, I would say: be open and take responsibility not only for your own child but also for others. Then go to an admission policy where you say: I have a child living here on the corner of the street and that could very well be at my reformed school, because there we have all the facilities to take care of it. But no, we don't. Then that child may... So, yes, there is a responsibility for the parents, but the freedom of education is not a free pass for bad education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u410	You are now addressing a new subject. I think there will be plenty of debates on this and there will be plenty of electoral activity. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u411	Mr President, thank you. A nice fundamental debate just between several colleagues. We also had a debate last week on education down the street in this building. It was about what the corona crisis currently means for students and teachers and how student life has turned into eat, drag, zoom, repeat. I am very pleased that the Minister is going to revise the directives and that, now that there is a roadmap for the whole of the Netherlands, there is also a roadmap for higher education and vocational education that gives a perspective. But in this debate, I want to focus on the future, because that is also what the king called us to. I quote from the Throne Address: "The mission is to continue to see the future beyond this crisis and to continue to work towards perspective for all generations." So what does college and college look like after corona? How do we build education and research that contributes to a thriving society in the 21st century? And what can we actually learn from the corona crisis? I would like to start with the latter and, like Mr Futselaar, I would like to go back to the beginning of March for a moment, when, overnight, the buildings had to be closed down and the teachers, the staff, the cleaners, the administrators, the education was to be brought online. While we, MPs, were sent home and were in online talk, and that our contribution to the crisis was at that time, those teachers were lugging with green screens and cameras to make their lessons possible online. They knew how to arrange it, because for many problems they came up with solutions before we could even think about it here. As Mr Futselaar rightly said, this is worth a huge compliment. But it is also a signal to ourselves, here in The Hague, that modesty is a virtue. Therefore, Pieter Heerma rightly stated at the General Reviews that there may be a few less Hague drawing tables. Ideas can sometimes come better from the bottom, just as students, teachers and directors together could determine the best investment with the loan system money. On the site Follow the Stufi of NOS on 3 everyone can see which choices colleges and universities have made. I believe that this is a great success and we could see for the future how we can prescribe less from The Hague and leave more to students, teachers and administrators. My question is whether the Minister sees this in the same way on the basis of quality agreements. I would just like to draw her attention to the evaluation of the accreditation system. Isn't a much broader evaluation an interesting idea, in which we also look at the way The Hague steers and students and teachers are sufficiently involved in that accreditation? Mr. Chairman. In thinking about the future, I cannot avoid the situation of the current students. I heard someone use the term "bed-bath-bureau generation." I've talked to a lot of students in the last few weeks. One of them is doing the alo and would now be doing an internship abroad, but he is now in his room. He cannot take sports skills courses, because they are only available for the seniors and then only occasionally. He will therefore, like many other students outside his own fault, continue to do more about his studies. In the spring, the cabinet has already released EUR 200 million to support students. Last month, up to €1,500 was transferred to HBO and WE students whose scholarship ended. Many will receive tuition and tuition fees in the near future. Knowing that the corona measures can be tightened even further later, we have seen the road map and knowing that it is already very difficult to do an internship, I ask the Minister how they estimate students' chances of catching up with the delays that have been incurred. When do we get the information on how many students are delayed or are failing? When we think about the coming time, I think about the next summer, too. Wouldn't it be nice if we also fully open the introduction time, when there is one again, to all sophomores? After that false start of their studies, they can still make a new introduction. We'll make it a double introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u412	I'd like to ask you about that. We have now seen an introduction period limited to freshmen, but it was also difficult to organize. None of this is done on purpose, but we have also seen that it did not contribute to the suppression of infections. Now you propose that next year, in addition to the first year group, the group of sophomores should also be involved. I also hope we'll be out of the virus by then, but have you considered that you're only increasing the group of people you're mobilizing with that? Let me get this straight: how do you see that, as practical as it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u413	Of course, if that's possible. But I'm looking at what Minister De Jonge announces. He says there will be vaccines from January and those trials will be ready. Of course, it will take a while to roll that out and we will be working on it all spring. But the expectations are that next summer the virus will no longer play the role in our lives that it has played. If that is safe, I would say: let's make next year's introduction a double introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u414	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u415	Mr. Chairman. When I look to the future beyond the crisis, I dream of more opportunities for anyone who wants to study. Because your student time determines a very large part of your life. You get to know yourself well, you make friends for life and above all it gives you freedom to find your own place in society. Sneaking through, there have been all kinds of blockages, such as the test culture in high school, increasing selection at the gate and the binding study advice, on which I think we have seen a nice opening today through the CDA. Maybe each horde has been well-intentioned, but the obstacle course that these hordes have brought will not help anyone at all. As far as I'm concerned, we're going through that again with a bulldozer and we're making more ways for students to get to their dream education. In high school I had a classmate who wrestled with languages every day, took tutoring and did everything to get the language courses. He got tens for physics, but time to do extra stuff with it wasn't there. That's actually the other six-year-old culture, which we also have to tackle: hanging it and choking six-year-olds, so that you can study later on on something where you get nines and tens. And if things aren't right, you can't even do that because you just didn't make it through those sixes. So let us build additional paths between secondary school and higher education, for example through the customized diploma that Paul Rosenmöller of the VO-Council so often advocates. The SEO report on the tailor-made diploma shows that there is a group of young people who really benefit from courses at different levels. The first brief response of the ministers is that they want to consult with the education umbrella first. I would like to know how the ministers conduct these talks. May I ask them to show a little more enthusiasm? And are they going to weigh the benefits and disadvantages in detail again or are they going to see how the customized diploma can be introduced? I fully agree with what Mr Van der Molen asked: why do we not make this 21+ test accessible to everyone? Mr. Chairman. One thing that is likely to be different in the future is study funding. That is also evident from this debate. Now there is a very nice Chamber debate Flasher on the roll and we should indeed not mow too much grass at his feet, but it is nice that most parties have already known colour. I would like to pay tribute here to all the plans that have been put forward. We have always said: bottlenecks in the loan system must be removed. This is what we do after the evaluation, which Mr Klaver forced upon us when it was introduced. I am glad that with this coalition we can already do something for insecure MBOs. I would like to ask the Minister how long it will take before we can give MBOs more confidence. And if a majority of the parties know how to adjust the loan system, is DUO ready to make that adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u416	Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u417	My time is still running, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u418	You're gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u419	I have a small question about the preparations. In addition to the question of what kind of scholarship we are going to have, there is also a discussion about possible compensation. I will not ask you for that either, but I once tabled a motion last year to examine the technical possibilities, for example through money or student debt or vouchers or whatever. That motion was supported by a disappointing number of parties at the time, but I have some hope that there might be a broader coalition for it now. Would D66 make such a request? Why don't you go and figure out what all can support this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u420	It is a very legitimate question to look at the technique, because we now of course know that it is often said: yes, we can ask DUO, but then it will take until somewhere in the next decade before we can realize it. So if you'd like to have a look at the technique, I'm gonna take an interest in that proposal. In general, we have also said that we see an opportunity to do so with a study voucher. Then you also have to look at the value of that and the coverage for it. But it is indeed a very difficult issue, so it is very good to look at the technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u421	I am not such a fan of vouchers myself; I was not in previous discussions we had on this. 'Cause I don't think they get there often. But I appreciate the outstretched hand, so I'm gonna see if we can arrange that in the next term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u422	I also do the aviation portfolio and I notice that a lot of people are indeed not a fan of vouchers at all, because they have received them very often but in no way can they get their money back. On the other hand, it has helped the theatres a lot. So I think vouchers have produced different connotations in different ways lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u423	I would like to borrow Mr Futselaar's word 'compensation'. I thought it was a good idea to see if you could put more into the hands of students and teachers. That's the community; that's nice. Now you also outline the situation with corona. You can also see that students sometimes cannot take courses and sometimes also make the conscious choice not to take courses. I said a while ago: couldn't you see if you can get students to pay only for the courses they took? Now it is complicated if we are going to impose it from The Hague, but what if there are students and teachers in the participation of an institution that say: we would like to try it here. Would you agree with me that we should give them space for that? So they pay per course, and students who do not attend certain courses this year, let's not pay for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u424	What we are in favour of is making flex study more widely possible. I think we share that. However, in the current situation, I see that universities and colleges are incredibly difficult to say: now you can go free at once to choose which course you do and which course you do not. What is against me is that in this particular situation we should not pretend that students are customers of education. Because we have just seen that the students are very much part of making education, no matter how difficult it is at this time. Eventually, you can choose to pay per course, but I've also heard from students with a petition stating that tuition fees are now a kind of streaming service. The tricky thing is, of course, that tuition is a contribution of my own. The biggest contribution comes from all taxpayers. Putting students as a customer of education is therefore not a good signal at this time. What I am in favour of is broadening the scope of flex study, but we must do so in such a way that it does not cause problems for institutions, i.e. colleges and universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u425	Mr Wiersma, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u426	I try to understand it, but here Mr Paternotte goes a little against his own plea to put it in the hands of students and teachers. That's what I'm saying. You say we shouldn't rob them with something they don't want. That's not my proposal either. I'm just saying, what if they say on the spot that it would help them... Maybe nobody's saying that because it's complicated. So perhaps your argument is valid. But let's say they say it anyway, and they're knocking on our door with the request: participation says they'd want it here anyway, because we talked to the board about it and it would help, especially for students who now choose not to take those courses online.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u427	Short question, Mr Wiersma
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u428	In that case, would it be an option for us to look at what is needed to give them that space?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u429	That's a pretty theoretical case. Because then it would be a situation where a college or university in consultation with teachers, administrators and students says that they are going to give back some of the tuition money, because they are not taking a particular course this year, and that they are going to pay for it all on their own. I see, of course, the cry for help from the educational umbrella: do not do that to us at the moment! You saw this when you made this proposal at the beginning of this year. I'm particularly sensitive to that right now. I think it's very interesting when a college or university comes up with that signal, but this seems to me to be a theoretical discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u430	Yeah, a quick question. One short question, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u431	The fact that students are not a customer, but together make education, is something that is taken from my heart, as is the plea to ensure that students and teachers are given more control. Like D66, GroenLinks also held a kind of school tour. We called that the cafeteria tour. The initiative paper came up with different ideas to strengthen control, including ensuring that there are work pressure resources throughout education and ensuring that students and teachers can choose half of the supervisors through a binding right of nomination. I was wondering how D66 looks at that. Is there an opening to talk about how we can also make higher education more democratic and therefore more of the students and the teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u432	Sure. That is indeed the same direction. I find that very interesting, too. I had also asked questions about the situation at Radboud University. Now it has been said that it cannot be that the bishop's Convent there partly determines who the supervisors should be. I think it would be a good idea for the Tilburg University to get off that model and go to a more inclusive, bottom-up model, with people who really have to do with education. I think that is absolutely an interesting direction. I also very much agree with Mrs Westerveld that the workloads that have gone to fundative education are a major success, because that money went straight to the schools. So you can see what it was spent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u433	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u434	Okay, I need to move on from the chairman. Mr. Chairman. I want to move towards a future in which science and society are connected. This is a future in which researchers can answer questions, as they do in this time of Corona, very often on TV or here in the Chamber. Also, anyone can read the research of those scientists. Recently, with Tariq Sewbaransingh, one of the many former LSVbs who are currently in this building, I published our discussion paper on open science. We've had a lot of reactions to that. We're gonna make that an own-initiative paper. But I'm telling you this right now, because I've already seen something in the Chamber that's not in line with the ambition of 100% open access. Because if researchers do research on behalf of the government, then it is unacceptable if they can be put under pressure. The review committee therefore strongly recommends giving the right of publication to those researchers. Can the Minister explain, on behalf of the cabinet, why the State Secretary of BZK still chooses to retain the right of publication in the hands of the government, despite the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry? Mr. Chairman. A thriving science also requires a sufficient budget. This cabinet has taken the first step. It wasn't as much as D66 wanted, but it was more than most parties wanted in the election. Last year I had a brief debate on this with Mr Wiersma. The political reality is that it helps if the CPB also rewards euros for education. For if I were to set up the party against education and say that we should shut down all schools and cut them all down, that could be quite good for the economy in the CPB models, when everyone feels that this would be disastrous for the whole economy and the future of our country. Something's not right there. What possibilities does the Minister see for better qualitative and quantitative mapping of the effects of investment in education and research? Could she ask the Education Council and the AWTI for an opinion on this? Mr. Chairman. I have two more topics. The National Growth Fund offers new opportunities. It focuses on paper to invest in the sustainable earning capacity of the Netherlands, but a criterion seems to be that a project has to prove how much it contributes to economic growth, when you cannot foresee that. I would like to hear from the Minister how the growth fund contributes to fundamental research. And then I want to end up in South Limburg, but perhaps Mr Van den Berge can interrupt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u435	I have a question about the previous block of Mr Paternotte, the story about science, which I agree with. We have also had debates here on the balance between unbound and tied research. We were at the VSNU Knowledge Breakfast together the other day. I also referred to this in my speech. Ineke Sluiter from the Academy said we need to make the soil more fertile. Each time, even with the Growth Fund, a kind of tropical rain of largely thematic research is thrown over and the soil can no longer handle that. My question to Mr Paternotte is whether we can ask the cabinet together, together with VSNU, KNAW and others, to develop such a steep growth path, as in Germany, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u436	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u437	Yeah, that's a very interesting one. You know, as you can also read in our programme, that we are indeed in favour of such a growth path, because we see the usefulness and need for it. You could say that a quarter of a billion has now been released, of which 200 million for fundamental research, and that that is a step towards that, of this cabinet. That was also the commitment of three years ago. In the end, it is also a political choice that we have to make after the elections, but it seems clear to me that it is my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u438	Good. Proceed, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u439	Mr. Chairman. I want to end up in South Limburg. My question is whether a large project such as the Einstein telescope is also one of the possibilities in that Growth Fund. I understand that the Italian government has now promised political support for the extraction of the telescope. What is the plan of the Netherlands to bring the Einstein telescope to South Limburg? This could make a huge difference for the Dutch, German and Belgian science and regional economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u440	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u441	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u442	A short question, Mrs van den Hul, is really a short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u443	A very, very short question, Mr President. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte how he looks at the approach to low-literacy. That was one of the ambitions in the coalition agreement, because there are 2.5 million low-lettered people in the Netherlands. That's what a lifetime of developing is all about. Shouldn't we set the bar much and much higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u444	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u445	It is a question I would have expected most from my colleague Van Meenen. When you see how low-literacy there is among 15-year-olds, it affects everyone in the heart, I think. That's something we should worry about every day. I have seen that understanding reading could also make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u446	The CDA has previously built with D66 for the Einstein telescope, a very promising project in Limburg. Mr Paternotte asked the Minister what role he could play. If I am well informed, the Minister himself can make a move to the Growth Fund in the first tranche of proposals to look at this project. Is Mr Paternotte's appeal perhaps the same as I would have: Minister, why don't you put that ball for the goal on the spot so that it can be fooled?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u447	Mr Van der Molen can say that very well and I do not have to comment on it. I think that is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u448	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. A brief question from Mr Wiersma. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u449	I agree with what Mr Van den Hul asked, because that went a little further, about a lifetime of development. You see in the job package and economy a lot of attention for retraining, but not really a task for higher education. Colleges in particular are very good at helping people. It's not always convenient to do that in four years, with a whole trajectory. That's the entrance requirement for funding. It would be nice if you followed a year or maybe six months and could receive a certificate and if the government could provide funding to those colleges. Does Mr Paternotte see this as an interesting point to ask the cabinet to work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u450	It's interesting, but you have to be careful what you do about the whole structure. I see that these colleges actually play a far too small role in retraining and retraining in the Netherlands. There's a lot of money in the collective agreements, in R&D funds. That may be more necessary in the coming period to help people find new jobs. It would be nice if people would come back to their own college much more often, almost of course, or perhaps even university. The link between these colleges in regions and the business community will enable them to learn just what they need to get through. Indeed, that will rarely be in a four-year period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u451	Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u452	Thank you for that answer. That's good. And of course it's complicated. That's the complicated part. It always will be, even if we do it next year. At the same time, this may be the time when it is most needed. This may also offer opportunities to at least look at it in small form and practice it. Perhaps we can learn from that, without all that complicated red tape. 'Cause I get that. I don't think we should complicate things, but we should make it easier. I hope to do that with D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u453	"Complicated, easier and no red tape"? I am very curious about Mr Wiersma's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u454	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This year we will never forget. It's the year of the MBO student who just sits in the car because that's the only place he can take the lesson. From the teacher who jumps on the bike to go around all the houses to bring class packages and check if all the children in his class are still in the picture. From the class that was real-time witness when their teacher was abused by her partner during online class. From the young scientist who was worried about the future of her research. This year they too will never forget. Mr. Chairman. Corona works as a magnifying glass on all existing problems, because no matter how well a teacher can try to track down missing children and no matter how hard you study in your car, your parents' education level and zip code still determine and perhaps more and more the future of children. UvA researcher Thijs Bol concluded that distance learning during corona has only increased the inequality of opportunity, however hard teachers have done their best to keep everyone literal. Mr. Chairman. I am fortunate that I have an experienced expert on my team, namely our praiseless Walfred, who is following this year's budget debate not from the Chamber but from home. Walfred, for those who don't know him, is one half of the week my policy officer and the other half of the week my teacher in secondary education. "It's better than nothing," he said about online education, but also at his school soon drew differences between students: students who could come, had a laptop and Wi-Fi at home and a quiet room to work, and students who needed more help. Fortunately Walfred is also physically in front of the class again, but that is not always without problems. There are understandable concerns about safety and ventilation. Also the workload is an increasing problem now that part of the pupils have to attend lessons through quarantine at home while the physical teaching program must also continue. Prioritizing the testing of teachers, as requested by the Asscher/Klaver motion, is also far from being equally smooth everywhere. There are still long waiting times when testing classes fall out and classes are sent home. As a result, some of the students are still failing lessons, with all the consequences. That is why I am making two concrete proposals today, so that teachers in basic education can get back to work safely and to what they are really good at: providing their pupils with the best start. One. We want rapid tests to be made available as a matter of priority in education, as a large group of education and reception organisations today urgently advocated. Two. We want the Minister to help schools with a one-off corona impulse so that schools can take extra hands in and around the classroom and thus reduce the workload for teachers. Mr. Chairman. Also in MBO and higher education Corona chops into it. Last week, we discussed it extensively with the Minister: internships that cannot go on, practical classes that fail and students who have problems with motivation because they have to miss physical education. Here too, we see that some students make the switch to online education easier than others. Because what if you don't have a quiet home situation or a laptop or bad Wi-Fi? What if you're so worried about your future and if you're gonna be able to afford it all later, you're even questioning whether you should continue your studies? Because there are also those stories. Mr. Chairman. Even before the summer, I tabled a motion on behalf of Mrs Westerveld and Mr Futselaar to compensate more students who have been delayed by corona than only seniors. Unfortunately, that motion was rejected with one vote. The Minister felt that it was too early to ask for it last week. She didn't want to get ahead of herself. But no matter how hard teachers and students work to prevent delays, it is now inevitable, now that internships cannot continue, practical lessons fail and sometimes even tests have to be postponed. I am afraid this too will only increase the odds. That is why today I am tabling an amendment for a solidarity fund which will enable students in MBO, HBO and wo who are in trouble because of Corona to receive a grant. Mr. Chairman. We've heard the term a few times lately: building back better, making sure we take this opportunity with both hands to fix what's broken. As with other vital sectors, it became painfully clear in education during the corona crisis that there is an urgent need for repairs. For example, in the appropriate education, which we will be discussing extensively next month and where the differences between children who do have the opportunity to develop and children who are forced to stay at home have still not been resolved. Or for pupils and students with disabilities, who are still literally and figuratively confronted with thresholds. Or for students in secondary special education, who, under the leadership of Elijah, rightly demand more space and attention in the debate on equal opportunities in our education. Or for the ever-decreasing reading skills, we were just talking about this so a quarter of all fifteen-year-olds are now even low-lettered. We're never supposed to accept that, are we? Today, 18 organisations rightly advocated a new reading offensive. I would like to hear from both ministers their ambition on this point. And then there is the funding in basic education, on which we had a debate with the Minister last week; a funding that is structurally inadequate for what we can expect from our education: sufficient qualified teachers, equal opportunities and safe, fine school buildings. Or the fact that your zip code and your parents' income determine what your chances are, who you run into in school, what school advice you get, whether you can skip a class or stay in the classroom, and even if you hit a qualified teacher for the classroom, because the lack of teachers also affects some schools extra hard. The segregation is still increasing. See the painful examples from Utrecht, about which my fellow party members submitted an initiative paper last week, to counter such a selection at the gate. The Minister said earlier, in response to our parliamentary questions, that he wants to investigate which buttons can be turned to prevent segregation in education. When can we look forward to this promised policy agenda? Can the minister give us a tip of the veil and take us into what he's thinking? Where does he see his own responsibility and that of municipalities to ensure that distressing situations such as those in Utrecht will hopefully soon be a thing of the past? Mr. Chairman. I can go on like this for a while. I find this growing inequality of opportunity really unacceptable in a rich country like the Netherlands. If we really want to take that building back better seriously, as far as I am concerned, we will have to start from the basics: in our education. What do I hear? I think the chairman should be taking away a phone right now. The good news is, we can do so much more to give each child a fair start. Investing unequally to make equal opportunities possible. We can offer all the kids free preschool. We can bet on tutoring, on more parent involvement, on broad bridge classes, on an equal opportunities bonus for teachers, which is already successfully deployed in Amsterdam. Among other things, the AOb calls for the classes to be reduced. The petition for this has already been signed almost 18,000 times. I am very curious how the Minister sees this and what the Minister thinks it could mean for both the equality of opportunity and the attractiveness of the profession. Another thing we should repair, as far as I am concerned, is the fact that children who do their entrance training in practice do not have the right to work, even though they would have it on a rock. For some pupils Mrs Westerveld and also Mr Van Meenen have just spoken about the familiar environment of practical education is simply a better solution, but I also give them their O.V., like their fellow students in entrance training on a rocket. I sincerely hope that the Minister agrees with us. Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, developing a lifetime should make it as easy as possible. One of the things that sometimes still wrings there is that for some students in the vacation the travel costs are quite a threshold. Mrs Westerveld asked questions about this before, following a petition from the LAKS. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this further? Mr. Chairman. From very small interventions to very ambitious plans: we have made some of these proposals together with a number of other parties lately. We often get the same reactions. In other words, what did you do during Rutte II? In other words, where do you get the money from? I am the first to say that there was insufficient investment in our education during the previous cabinet, despite the steps taken during the aftermath of the financial crisis. But the most important point is this: we often talk about costs and so little about benefits. Are we putting this discussion about investing in equal opportunities in the right perspective? Should we not see this in the context of broad prosperity, in the context of sustainable development and investment in the future? As far as I am concerned, the answer to these questions is yes. Because when it comes to equal opportunities, you can never be ambitious enough. And so I don't think you can invest too much in education. Starting with bridging the still existing pay gap between p.o. and vo. Because since the last teacher strike, unfortunately, except for Corona at this point, nothing has changed painfully. The workload is only higher and the importance of this vital sector is only clearer. Many times we have tabled motions and amendments to resolve this, but the gap is still there. And it's still just as unfair. That is why, together with the SP and GroenLinks, we are once again tabling an amendment to finally settle this. The same applies to the remuneration of teachers in the US, a sector that also deserves more. It is not to be explained that teachers in the vso in the collective agreement p.o. Sit down. That is why we have been advocating for some time that teachers should be rewarded according to the collective agreement of secondary education. We are also tabling an amendment to this effect together with the SP and GroenLinks. Not only should the reward of the professional teacher be more attractive, but also the accessibility of teacher training. We simply cannot afford to wait for it to work itself out. That is why we are under Mr Kwint's amendment on the teacher grant. That is why, in our election programme, we are calling for a state academy for teachers, a free education provided that you continue to work in education for five years, so that money no longer constitutes an obstacle for people to take the step towards the most beautiful profession in the world and so that we are sure that we are doing everything we can to get the best teacher in the classroom, for each classroom. I would also very much like to hear the Minister's reaction on this point. It is not only in primary education that many teachers are talking about, but also in higher education that the workload is enormous. That is why we would very much like to see the Minister, by analogy with the pressure equipment that fortunately became available for the P.O.P., also working with pressure equipment for higher education, as we propose per amendment. And then there are the temporary contracts, the PhD candidates and the researchers who, through corona, are in even greater uncertainty. If there is one time that has made it clear how important science is, then it is now. A time when even the greatest science skeptics were killed by the virus and also had to acknowledge that it was very nice that the most effective treatment had been investigated. It was good news that it became clear last week that part of the NWA funds are being used to reduce that uncertainty for researchers. But that's not enough. That is why we are making a proposal on this issue today, because it is also better to get out of the crisis: researchers who have the space to think beyond their flex contract is long. Finally, I would like to come back to that MBO student who is studying in his car, the young scientist who is worried about the future of her research, the teacher who bikes past his students to distribute teaching packages, but also to find out why some children have fallen off the radar. We are faced with an immense task in our education, a historic task and one that will certainly have to be taken up by a subsequent cabinet. But we owe it to them, those students, teachers, students and researchers too, to put our shoulders together for the next six months. So let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u456	Mr Heerema, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u457	I have one more clarifying question. At the beginning of her speech, Mrs Van den Hul indicated that she wanted some kind of bonus for schools to hire people for hands in and around the classroom. I'm just trying to look into the practical effects of that. You have occasional money for which you have to hire people, which I think is structural costs. Or you say to people, you get to work in education for one or two months. I'm just looking for what would be the best shape for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u458	I also have that question for the Minister, namely how she intends to shape it together with the sector. I want the sector to be able to talk about this itself. But the signals I'm getting from the field, for example, from the school where Walfred works that I was just talking about, is that you really need to prepare your physical and your online classes right now. We have all seen in the figures in recent weeks that it is not going to be any less in the short term. You can't just do that same class preparation all at once. You're supposed to be preparing for two classes. Many schools also give to the AOb that it would be very helpful to have more support in and around the classroom. That could also be temporary support. We're in extraordinary times. We should not put extra pressure on teachers now because of this double taxation, and show schools that we stand behind them and help them through this particularly difficult time. Schools need help with that. I think we should talk to them about what that help might look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u459	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u460	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Van den Hul that it is not possible for a school to do both physical and digital education. That hybrid system is incredibly difficult to keep in the air. I'm just looking for what we're looking for, because you'd better look for a specific task. You put the question to the cabinet, so perhaps the cabinet has solutions to it. It was your proposal, so I had hoped you might have an idea of it, but let us wait for the Minister's answers. I wonder if we could help schools with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u461	I would like to say a few words about this. I do not think it is right for me here from The Hague to go behind this chair to decide what schools need. I do get signals from the field, including from the unions, that there is a need for extra hands in and around the classroom. In my opinion, how this should be filled in at every school is the best way of determining schools and teachers. I am concerned that we should have that conversation and that we cannot leave schools to their fate in this exceptional time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u462	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u463	Mr. Chairman. Normally we would look back on this cabinet period and take stock of this budget, but this is not really the time to reflect calmly, because the whole society and the whole education sector have been seized by the coronavirus. It is unprecedented what has happened over the past six months. Close the schools, cancel the finals, cancel the central exam, online education: no one could have known about this a year ago. So it is encouraging to see how all those people in education have made sure that education has been able to continue. The creativity and commitment shown throughout the educational world are admirable. It suits us to pay a great compliment from this place to all those teachers, school leaders and administrators who have shown themselves on their best side in these exceptional circumstances. This compliment also applies to the executives and their officials, their staff who have worked hard to make all this possible. Mr. Chairman. The impact of the coronavirus is enormous, as if there was not enough going on in educational country. Teacher shortage, workload, lagging learning performance, curriculum review, appropriate education, revision of funding in higher education: changes and steps have been taken in all these areas. Major investments have been made by this cabinet, both structurally and occasionally, in the area of teacher's salaries and a reduction in the workload. Recently, for example, 360 million were added to improve ventilation in schools. With this, the cabinet has bent the line of previous Cabinets and invested heavily in the future of our country. It's not that it's all rosy now, because an ambitious agenda for our education sector is and remains desperately needed, including the corresponding investments. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the next cabinet will continue to invest in education. The pay gap between p.o. And vo, which has already been mentioned here, must close. Teacher training must be permanently strengthened. The workload needs to be addressed further. In short, there is still plenty of work to be done. I'd like to ask the rulers to reflect on the past few years. How do they see the current state of education? How did the investments turn out? What effects are visible and what do they see as the biggest challenges for the coming years? Mr. Chairman. In any case, my group considers it essential that in future investments the teachers themselves should be able to talk about the use of the funds, just as was the case with the pressure equipment. They know best where it pinches and where the need lies. How do the rulers view this new model? Can we also anchor this method for the future? What lessons have been learned at this point in recent times? It takes time and consultation, and not every mr is well-equipped to talk about investment. How can we ensure that directors and teachers can actually take their role? These are essential ingredients to improve the control and position of teachers. The same applies with regard to the Christian Union for pupils: they must be able to speak well, because it is about their education. In this context, we lack a representative body of primary school pupils. They're young, but still. A LAKS for primary school, so to speak, or a national student council. Wouldn't the Minister like the idea of that coming? In any case, let us now and in the future especially involve teachers and students in financial choices and policy choices in education. It is they who shape the school. It is they who together make the school a community of values. Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said about the impact of the coronavirus on education. I share the concern that this period will further widen existing differences between pupils and between schools. My group believes it is very important that we monitor closely what the consequences are in both the short and the long term. What does it mean for the learning disadvantages of students and what does this do with the equality of opportunity? How does the Minister keep his finger on the pulse and how will we ensure that this will not be a lost year for vulnerable students? We also need to pay attention to students who are in their senior year. It is essential that there is early clarity about the exams and the path to them. We must prevent last minute measures or adjustments from being needed around the exams. The same applies to the final test in the eighth grade, and I would almost say that it would be preferable to delete it prematurely rather than leave uncertainty for too long. We've seen last year that we can do without it. I found that refreshing to see. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at this and what scenarios he's preparing around the finals and exams. I also think it is important that we monitor the extent to which the corona crisis causes study delays. The cabinet has rightly arranged compensation for senior students of the last season. But of course, all students have to deal with delays and the limitations that exist today. Research carried out by the ISO showed that in June there were already 54,000 students with a study disadvantage. What perspective does the Minister offer to all those students who are delayed? Are we gonna wait till the summer, or can she say anything about this before? Mr. Chairman. I would like to go a little further...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u464	A brief question, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u465	I couldn't agree more. I was just talking about our concerns about that study delay. I have proposed this together with Mrs Westerveld, namely a solidarity fund, a once-in-a-lifetime investment in a fund so that students who are concerned know that we are behind them. How does the Christian Union view that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u466	How can I be against solidarity, I'd say. I can hardly imagine a better name for such a fund. I think it would be a good idea to wait and see what the Minister can actually tell us about the delays. So far, the students who are at the end of their studies have received little support. The Minister must tell us how this is going to be done in the coming years. That's what we need to look at. If it turns out that there are delays there too, and that is quite likely to happen, then we really need to see how we can help these students, because it is not only the seniors who are affected by this. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u467	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u468	Mr. Chairman. We have asked for more attention to be paid to the situation of students, including with Coalition-Y. Performance pressure is high. The loan system creates a considerable student debt. The labour market has certainly not improved and it is complicated to find accommodation. I'm worried about this. This is the generation that will soon have to carry society. Right now, we're burdening them with big debts. On the one hand, a large public debt due to all the crisis measures we are taking and, on the other hand, a large study debt due to the loan system. Recent evaluations show that for middle-income students in particular, the loan system is very negative. It's high time we put the crowbar in this loan system. From the Christian Union, we have presented our commitment this week. A solid basic grant for all students. This is part of the major tax reform that we come up with in our electoral programme. It is good to see that other parties also come up with plans to support students financially. Fortunately, the architects of this debt system also repent. We've just heard the debate. I am therefore confident that, in the coming cabinet formation, we are going to put the loan system in the dirt. Mr. Chairman. Now, therefore, it is important that we map the financial situation of students properly. Last year, I asked for a motion to restore the Nibud Student Research. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of this motion, I ask the Minister. I'm getting signals that this isn't working out yet. I would also like to draw attention to the psychological aid to students. In this corona time, it is more important than ever that there is accessible, accessible help for students. Thanks to my previous motion, RIVM is working on a large-scale quantitative zero measurement of students' mental health. What is the state of that now, I ask the Minister. In the meantime, what can she do to keep this issue on the agenda and ensure that students receive good help? I would like to draw particular attention to the position of the four small philosophical universities. They are not represented in the VSNU, but they clearly notice that the current system is crumbling. Corona makes their situation all the more acute. Previous studies have shown that generic adjustments to the funding system do not take sufficient account of the very nature of these small institutions. Does the Minister recognise this and is she prepared to provide tailor-made work in the plans for funding and to discuss this with philosophical universities? Mr. Chairman. Then science. We received again from the Rathenau Institute the annual report Balance of Science. Part of this report comes from a motion I tabled earlier. What struck me is the shift that has taken place in recent years in the so-called research profile of the Netherlands. The proportion of publications in the fields of nature, technology and agriculture has been halved while the proportion of medical and social sciences has increased enormously. How does the Minister explain this? How does this relate to the countries around us? How can we ensure that we continue to excel in the fields of science and technology? In the coming period, the importance of these fields will only increase. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to my last topic: craftsmanship. Mr Van den Berge also spoke about it. Last year I presented my second action plan here. The Netherlands is in great need of professionals, of golden hands that keep our country running. The challenges of this time call for technically skilled personnel. This calls for a re-evaluation of vocational education and the enthusiasm of young people for science and technology. That is why it is important that we interest enough young people to learn a profession, as Mr Van den Berge's father would like to see. We must ensure that young people make an informed choice of training and that we train people for the sectors where the deficits are. In both MBO, HBO and WO, the question about the macro-efficiency of training should be asked. Good career orientation is crucial, as is sufficient internships and learning jobs. What is the situation at this point, I ask the Minister. Where does it see opportunities for an additional offensive to ensure that we train enough professionals in deficit professions now and in the future? Mr. Chairman. We see craftsmanship as a framemaker, reed-decker and piano technician. Those are real professionals. And they are indispensable in our country. It is clear to the Christian Union that we must honour and support these crafts. However, the future of these vocational training courses is under pressure, because the subsidy for the Expertise and Expertise is likely to fall away. This point of expertise coordinates the training courses for these specialist professions. At this time, it would be devastating if this were to go away. That is why I will come up with a motion to make money available in the coming years for the Expertise and Expertise specialist craftsmanship. Mr President, so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u469	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u470	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Rog for his wonderful speech on the three teachers he mentioned and appointed, especially the teacher of his own youth. That reminded me of Tolkien's statement, which said: real education is like an endless story. I like that; thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to education, politics is often hard learners. I would like to discuss three examples of how we can change this: the climate in the classroom, lifelong learning and the cessation of animal testing. Mr. Chairman. Child marketing is a great error in our education. We talked about the influence of hunters, Shell and cattle feed companies. The Minister's reaction is always the same: schools are responsible themselves and the sponsor agreement provides guidance to regulate it. Don't worry, she actually says schools can wash that pig themselves. And that's exactly where it goes wrong. In The Pig Story, which was sent unsolicited to many schools, a rosy story is told about the life of pigs. But we know from the Minister that these pigs also have a far from rosy life. Mothers are stuck between bars, her babies are taken away from her too early. Contrary to what The Pig Story claims, the pigs are so bored that they bite each other to bite. The lesson package is propaganda: unbalanced and merely delusional. So the Minister's self-cleaning strategy is not working. By laying down responsibility for the schools, which are already struggling enough with workload, large classes and now also corona, the Minister runs away from his responsibility. Shall we exchange lessons from the lobbying industries, based on economic importance, for climate education based on science? With this we teach our children about one of the biggest problems for their future and make them critical of the world today for tomorrow's world. For example, for the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Scotland, companies have no business unless they have demonstrably short-term reduction plans to reduce their emissions. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that there is a much clearer and sharper covenant? I'd like a response. In this context, I would also like to ask how far the cabinet is going to carry out our motion to deal with the need for knowledge and material on sustainability. Mr President, then item two. As you know, the Animal Party has always been against the so-called social loan system and so we are pleased that parties such as D66, GroenLinks, the CDA and the PvdA finally withdraw their support. The question then is: how else? The platform Future of Labour presented a proposal on this subject this summer: the development bill, just a little more radical than what Mr van GroenLinks presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u471	Very briefly, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u472	A correction, because I see that my colleague, Mr Van der Molen, is not in the Chamber. The CDA has always been against the loan system, I say out of collegiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u473	Well, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u474	Thank you for this improvement. I apologize to the CDA for misappointing them. Mr. Chairman. This development account gives each Dutchman a budget that can be used for continuing training. When someone has passed a bachelor's degree or master's degree in scientific education, this money is virtually exhausted. There'll be less money to rehearse. But an MBO student, whose training is cheaper, has a larger share of the budget for further training. In this way, someone who is younger than school has a larger development budget as an adult. This could offer great opportunities, inter alia by addressing the inequality of opportunities. What is the Minister's position on this plan of the Platform for the Future of Labour? Is he willing to give an opinion on this? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about the monkey laboratory in Rijswijk, the BPRC, it must not be missed where 1,400 monkeys are kept to carry out animal experiments. Two years ago, the BPRC was ordered to bring the breeding colony back by 40%. How's that going? How big is the breeding colony now? At the end of last month, we read that the BPRC has developed a new earning model. Trained rhesus monkeys are now available for €7,000 each. They are sold to the Catholic University of Leuven. So that's next to the BPRC's 10 million grants a year. Tax money is used to start a monkey trade here. How is this controlled? Is that okay with the Minister? Are there more monkeys bred now than agreed? Can you share the numbers with us? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u475	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u476	Thank you, Mr President. So much has already been looked ahead, even in view of the forthcoming elections, at least that is put by the interruptor, whether or not I was right to think: let me look back, just in the rear-view mirror. That's something you get sucked in at driving lessons, and that's always good. I do not want to discuss the issue of study funding in detail anymore. That has been discussed at length. The position of the SGP is also clear from the election manifesto, or the ballot box agreement between SGP and D66. We have visited each other with in mind: if SGP and D66 can find each other, yes, then just about everyone fits in. So you're cordially invited. I admit that's a symbolic explanation. All appreciation also for all kinds of other plans that have been suggested. They are not wiped out, but our thought was: if we now, preferably Chamberwide, come to a ballot box that has been signed Chamberwide, then you have made a very powerful statement on which direction it is going after the elections. That is the least we can do as far as the students are concerned. You are therefore cordially invited to sign it, while retaining your own preferences and plans in election programmes and so on. That's about college funding. Mr. Chairman. As far as the Dutch language is concerned, much has been said about this, from preschool to university. Of course, we are not going to repeat that debate. How it all works out around Curriculum.Now is still waiting. It is clear that the Dutch language is an essential thing for our culture, for our people. It's about functionality. If a quarter is functional alphabet, then that's really cause for great concern. But he can also lead to reading pleasure and enjoy his own cultural heritage. That's just as important. So we are also pleased with the ambitious reading offensive that has erupted today. I would like to ask both ministers what role they have to play in promoting the importance of the Dutch language. In primary school, we have read-out competitions. Experts indicate that very large holes can also be found in the substructure of the vmbo in particular. That is what we call 'there is still a challenge'. My question to the Minister is therefore: can we take such initiatives as reading contests... Yes, that may not be the best way, but is the Minister prepared to encourage additional efforts to promote reading skills in secondary education? For example, I am thinking very specifically of literature. But then maybe you're talking about the superstructure before. I'd like a response from the Minister for Fundamental Education. Then the academic discipline Dutch language. It has already been appointed; I agree with that. The academic practice of the Dutch language is under pressure. The number of applications is falling significantly. Of course, you can see that in general with the humanities, but I think that specific support for the Dutch language is essential. That is why I have tabled a modest amendment for targeted support in order to launch a plan of action for the Dutch training programme. I realize that the time has now passed for each university to have its own plan, but it might lead to a more macro-targeted approach. I'd like to reserve a budget for that. I agree with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union on the position of small institutions, such as philosophical universities. This is a provision which has an important role to play in certain respects. The generic funding measures put the emphasis on these small training courses. That has everything to do with the small character, which on the one hand is a force, but on the other hand a bump. I would like to endorse the questions put by Mr Bruins on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Then the teacher's scholarship. In this cabinet period barely a year went by or there was disagreement with the budget about the budget for the teacher grant. It is annoying that this has always sent out contradictory signals in dealing with the shortage of teachers. Teachers and school leaders rightly have little comprehension for the talk about budgetary engineering. I hope that we can really get to a new system as soon as possible where we no longer have to sell "no." Lifelong learning; that's what we went for, isn't it? Then it seems to me that this could be one of the important instruments for this. This also calls for attention to be paid to communication. In the rejection letter received by teachers at the end of July, at the end of July, most of the school plans were well around the time that the ceiling had already been reached at the beginning of April. Many teachers no longer look at the DUO website after submitting an application and wait for the letter. So they don't know until the end of July that they got it wrong. How will the Minister make an effort to prevent this discontent? What possibilities does the Minister see for meeting the learning needs of the teachers who have subscribed to them? There are examples that someone enrolled immediately after it was opened up. He got a teacher's scholarship. A colleague thought: let me wait until 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Then it was over and out, because it was full. It shouldn't be like this. On parental involvement, the coalition agreement contains a hopeful text: "Schools, children and young people thrive in parental involvement. That is why we want to strengthen cooperation between school and parents." As the minister himself said in an interview, at the start of this cabinet he could not have thought that schools should be closed and that parents themselves would be the teachers. The importance of parental involvement has been strongly underlined by this crisis. The SGP doesn't expect the Minister to have predicted the corona crisis prophetically. There were more of them, but it is striking that the focus on parental involvement remains relatively thin even after the outbreak of the corona crisis. Sure, there were a lot of valued words. But why not, for example, give different parent organisations a clearer and clearer place, including in policy preparations, and some financial support? This is now, with the exception of one large organisation, one subsidised organisation... those others have to pay for it with their own resources, while there is support from parents. It deserves support. Why is it not actively working on more opportunities for tailor-made arrangements as parents and schools? A specific theme I would like to mention here is home education. We just had a very fundamental debate on the principle of education. Then I do not really care whether I call it "learning obligation" or "learning right," although I realize that there are several connotations. I am concerned that the main parent is responsible. Then the final piece of freedom of education is right. I am referring to the recognition of the right of parents to choose to teach their own children, if education is part of education. That's part of the freedom of choice. As far as we are concerned, this must be carefully embedded. That's what's missing right now. It was announced in the coalition agreement that there would be a bill. There isn't yet. My question is: when can we face that? I would like to have that completed this cabinet period. Mr. Chairman. Pre-school and apprenticeship follow-up systems: let's not talk about that anymore. I would like to mention one point that has not yet been raised: gender diversity and inclusion. In that rear-view mirror, one part has actually turned up out of nowhere, and that is this issue, gender diversity. In the coalition agreement you still have to look at the word "gender," but in the cabinet note gender diversity is even one of the three pillars. The minister wants to influence what citizens see on TV and read some students in school books. She even interfered with toys. For higher education, she recently presented an action plan for inclusion and diversity, complete with diversity officers and a monitoring body. How far do you want to go? How crazy do you want it? In that plan I read that it is about inclusion of everything and everyone, and yet I am quite concerned about that. You can just hear that it is not smart to express your sympathy to the academy for, for example, a PVV. I don't know what effect it will have if you find out you're voting SGP, but for the PVV that's obvious to me. And when it comes to a Nashville statement, that's about the risk of moral stoning. Does the Minister also fight for inclusion of these citizens? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u477	A very short question, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u478	Let me honestly say that I found it a very nice sign that for the first time a female SGP'er had become alderman in a municipality. I think we agree that in the Netherlands... If you look at the number of professors, you can see that 93% of professors are male, while we men in the Netherlands are minority. Do you agree that there is something missing in gender diversity and that it might be good to do something about it? And do you have a better idea than the Minister's plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u479	That last one, for sure. There's no question about that. But maybe it's good to take a look at that term "gender diversity" first. What do we mean by that? Is that the relationship between husband and wife? I see you nodding and you do think so and that is how it is sometimes used, but it also has everything to do with the vision of sexuality, the vision of gender identity. Man or woman doesn't matter anymore, but they are the two extremes and in there you can have a dozen other forms of identity experience. If I just read that note or plan, it goes much more in the direction of that last description than the direction of that first one. It would be a good idea to work with careful definition throughout this gender debate. Can I give you one more quote, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u480	Well, very briefly, Mr. Bishop!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u481	I'll be as brief as I can. I quote: 'Due to the current standard, diversity and inclusion are achieved at universities and colleges of applied sciences, 'not always achieved, for example because of subtle and less subtle forms of gender bias, heterormativity, racism and validism'. I'll give you a stuffed cake if you can tell me what validism is right now. Luckily, there's a footnote... yes, who's bidding?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u482	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u483	Oh, you can't. Well, I still keep my word. You're gonna owe me that stuffed cake. That's just one example. If you look further, you can see that it is not at all about the relationship between man and woman, but that it is about breaking open, imposing a certain vision on the relationship between man and woman, or other interpersonal relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u484	Very briefly, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u485	Once again, I really don't know where to start with this interruption, but let me sum it up with this. There is a man here, a white heterosexual man without restrictions, again saying that all the attention that exists for exclusion on grounds he has never experienced in person is nonsense. That is why I am concerned, because there are children in all schools who are now watching this debate or looking back tomorrow and who again feel that they should not be there by Mr Bishop. I found the word'stening' very unfortunate in the context of the Nashville Declaration. I would like to stress once again that we have had this discussion many times and we will continue to argue that human rights and human rights are not an opinion. They're not opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u486	I believe that this has been discussed several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u487	I hear that's getting a little applause. But let me say a few things about that. That word "stony," yes. If you remember what happened at the beginning of January 2019, there is not much else to talk about than "moral stoning." Really, that has led to exclusion of people who had signed, sometimes by accident, which hasn't happened too conveniently...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u488	But we have already had this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u489	So they were called to account. And when it comes to the point made by Mrs Van den Hul, it is extremely tendentious to talk in such a government document about "because of subtle and less subtle forms of gender bias and heteroronomativity"? You have to avoid that from all sides, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u490	There will be an extensive debate on emancipation on 2 November, I understand. Then you can discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u491	That's something to look forward to, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this encouraging announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u492	I think so, too. We agreed with each other that I would actually close the debate at 11 p.m. and Mr Kuzu still has to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u493	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u494	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kuzu after the chair has been cleaned. Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u495	Mr President, we are not going to save 11 o'clock, but we are done with something about 11 o'clock. Well, I guess I better get started. Education is the birthcradle of development. DENK stands for accessible education, where everyone has equal opportunities and equal opportunities, from primary education to higher education and from regular education to special education. That is why equal opportunities for all our children and all our young people must be radically promoted. Mr. Chairman. Successive inspection reports show that it is saddeningly bad with the equality of opportunity in education. Now, of course, I do not dare to say that since D66 education as a crown jewel, there has been increasing inequality of opportunity, but it is. Whether this is coherence or causality, I am not sure about that myself. We can talk about that later. It is clear, however, that education must once again become an emancipation motor, so that the income of one's parents, one's origin or the level of education of one's parents can never determine how far someone gets into education. DENK therefore wants to invest heavily in education, not just in terms of extra money. We also need to break down the barriers within the system that maintain inequality. Education is also the means by which we express our faith in the creatorable society and by which we can convey the values and norms of citizenship of the Netherlands to the new generation, values such as equality, anti-racism and anti-discrimination. As far as we are concerned, education should bring Dutch people together from a young age, so that they learn about each other's history, culture and beliefs, and ensure more mutual understanding and acceptance. Mr. Chairman. Education is currently under intense pressure. In all three sectors there are more "insufficient" or "very weak" schools this year than a year ago. The pleasure with which 15-year-old students read in the Netherlands is the lowest of all countries. Opportunities between income groups and lower advice for pupils with a migration background form glass ceilings within the education system. It was before the pandemic broke out. DENK is concerned that through corona the inequality of opportunity will only increase further. Mr. Chairman. That is why I would like to focus on three points during this education budget today. One. Discrimination in education. Two. Diversity in education. Three. The affordability of education. Point one. During the study of the Education budget, I noticed that there was almost no consideration for tackling discrimination in education. Strange, given the fact that the budget talks about a strong commitment to inequality of opportunity and its elimination. The fight against discrimination should be a logical point of action, all the more so because trans- and inter-sex discrimination, under the heading of emancipation, is reflected extensively in the budget, but all other forms of discrimination remain unnamed. How can that be, while, like last year and the year before and the year before, most discrimination in education takes place on the basis of religion, ethnic background or colour? Just to clarify a few facts. More than half of Turkish, Moroccan, Surinamese and Antillian-Dutch students and students feel discriminated against. About 10% of non-Western pupils indicate that they were wrongly under-assessed. Almost a third, 32.5%, of MBO students with a non-Western migration background must apply at least four times before they have found an internship spot. This is almost two and a half times as much as people without a migration background. And I can go on for a while. The Minister himself acknowledged the seriousness of discrimination. During Keti Koti on 1 July she said that the Netherlands does not know enough about its own slavery history and she said how that past continues to work in racism and discrimination in today's society. Those were nice words. Racism is in the systems. This is not sufficiently recognised and needs to be broken. As far as internship discrimination is concerned, she has even declared the situation unacceptable in the light of ROA figures: "I cannot and will not accept internship discrimination'. Strong words. Now I've learned in eight years of parliament that you shouldn't believe the minister in her words but in her budget. In fact, there is hardly anything in the budget about what it is going to do against this unacceptable situation. The budget states that in 2021 the Cabinet will continue to pursue policies aimed at equal opportunities for students with a migration background. Now I went to look at last year's budget and there is one sentence in it, namely that combating internship discrimination is a top priority and that there is going to be an information campaign. It is always so minimal: another information campaign. We must of course continue to do so, but much more needs to be done. The umpteenth information campaign has started. Actually, I'm sick of that lame-ass shit. Why don't we do it differently sometime? Why don't we punish discriminatory employers? Why don't we move to take-and-shaming of discriminatory companies? Why not go ahead and implement an internship guarantee by the government or educational institutions? When are we really gonna do what? How does the Minister look at the role of the government as a model? My group believes that the government should set a good example and that, in view of these times, we should create more placements, especially for MBO students. In order to include discrimination as a separate issue in the budget and in line with the importance of combating discrimination, we would like to make an additional budget available. We shall be tabling an amendment to that effect. Mr. Chairman. Unconscious prejudices can, unfortunately, also lead to discrimination. DENK has enormous respect for all those people who stand in front of the classroom to give a new generation of luggage for a bright future. We also have enormous respect for them because in these times, in the corona era, they have worked with man and power to find solutions to continue teaching. It is therefore important to make teachers more aware of their own prejudices, which at the same time will enable them to become a contact point for students. This year, the cabinet will provide 460 million euros for the development and supervision of teachers. Last year, the Minister set up a nice pilot. That pilot is called Community Urban Education. Is she prepared to roll it out and allocate more resources for this? Mr. Chairman. An important theme for DENK is the assignment of citizenship in primary and secondary education. The emphasis in the current citizenship mission is on interconnection. That's good. A next step could be to finally take a good look at teaching materials. I absolutely do not want to interfere with the content of teaching materials, but I have received, to my horror, several messages and photos of teaching material that is imbued with stigmatisation and that discriminatory behavior helps. A recent example at a school concerns a theorem in which children should use a number of stigmatizing remarks to describe the words "allochtoon" and "autochtoon." Another example is the shameful children's book Slave child slave. That is a book in which the black skin color is equal to ugly and the white skin color is equal to beautiful. I quote: "The slaves have danced and sung. Suddenly I saw how black they are and how beautifully white I am." A 9-year-old child in fifth grade recently got this book home to read it. There is also a social textbook that teaches that other cultures may appear threatening, accompanied by a photograph of armed jihadists. Yeah, it's really happening! Nota bene an online assignment from NOW Citizenship is full of stigmas about Muslim parents, who are disadvantaged and do not want to send their daughters to school. I find this unacceptable. It's time to structurally banish this subliminal poison from textbooks. I would like to pass on these examples to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u496	A brief question from Mr Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u497	Part of this list also includes the book "Help! I'm growing up" from Asma Claassen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u498	Yes. DENK therefore proposes to set up a task force to prevent discrimination as part of the education inspection. The task force will be responsible for monitoring and monitoring teaching materials in order to prevent discrimination and stigmatisation in education. We are funding this task force from the resources we mentioned in an amendment to an earlier proposal for the inclusion of discrimination in the budget. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the issue of inequality in education, I would like to refer to the shortage of teachers. It turns out that schools where pupils with a non-Western migration background are overrepresented have more difficulty filling their vacancies nationally. This also threatens equal opportunities for teachers, according to the Education Inspectorate. This year, too, the lack of teachers in the budget is a top priority and this year, too, the words are more beautiful than the deeds. For the coming year, the cabinet has made only 31.5 million available to deal with the shortage of teachers. In my view, that is far from enough, and I think the Minister knows it. A top priority also includes a structurally available amount, a substantial wage increase. As far as the DENK Group is concerned, salaries in primary education are in any case aligned with those in secondary education. In order to combat inequality in education, it is also important that teachers in primary education should be given an additional incentive to work in schools where job vacancies are most difficult to fill. For how can we expect the quality of primary education to rise if teachers are structurally undervalued? How can we expect the deficit to be resolved if income is structurally lagging behind? And what kind of signal does it send? As a teacher, you used to be a village notable, along with the notary and the reverend, but now you look like a glorified babysitter. The craft industry needs to be revived and this starts with financial appreciation. That is why DENK proposes that teachers in primary education also receive additional rewards with financial compensation and better secondary working conditions. Mr. Chairman. My second point concerns diversity. Last year I also made a point about the emancipation of men in education. This will also be addressed by Mr Bruins of the Christian Union, because he is a fervent supporter of it. The budget devotes a great deal of attention to the emancipation of women and women in education. That is right, because everyone has the right to a fair chance. However, it has been known for years that education needs a male emancipation, at least when it comes to the teacher for the classroom. As many as 85% of primary school teachers are women and only 15% are men. On the basis of my motion adopted last year, the Minister set up a programme. We think there's really a bit to it. I would like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to set diversity targets in this sector, to monitor them annually and to share the progress made with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point: the affordability of education. This is of course mainly about the antisocial loan system, which was introduced in 2015 by the VVD and the PvdA, supported by D66 and GroenLinks. I have always found it incomprehensible that a generation of long-students, such as Rutte and Pechtold, has not awarded this generation what they themselves have benefited from for years. After five years, we also see that the architects of the antisocial loan system have finally noticed the damage they have caused: students who are already struggling in the housing market can get up to €40,000 less mortgage because of their student debt. Students who would actually like to study, choose from the loan version not to study anymore. The Interurban Student Consultation had an inventory of what a student debt does to students. Borrowing students appear to suffer more from psychological problems, such as extreme fatigue and pressure to perform, than non-borrowers. They feel hunted and let their social life go. 60% of students borrowing 60%! He says he experiences stress regularly because of a student debt. 40% talk about emotional exhaustion. And 39% are worried about the finances. Those are percentages. And then the effects of the corona crisis weren't even taken away. The uncertainty will only increase. Mr. Chairman. What pleases me is that even at the PvdA, one of the driving forces behind abolishing the basic grant, the quarter was so angular that it finally fell. The former Education Spokesman of the PvdA, who defended the proposal on behalf of the tandem Samsom/Asscher and who did not believe in loan fear, now fears the consequences of the loan system. It's been five years. Now that the elections were going down, the PvdA has finally, but finally, seen the light. Mr. Chairman. DENK has a strong position on study funding. Finish the nonsensical loan and restore the basic grant. We must also make sure that we also compensate the students who have been duped. In concrete terms, this means that the outstanding loan will be cancelled and students who have been duped by the PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks will be compensated for the amount they have missed. And an excuse from the PvdA and GroenLinks towards the students who have been affected would really be in order. Mr. Chairman. Education is the cradle of society and the birthcradle of development, which is currently under pressure. Now, more than ever, the Cabinet can show that the future also counts, for everyone. That being a teacher is a noble profession and that all children have equal rights and equal opportunities for progress. Now the cabinet can show that Corona may have us temporarily in his grip, but the march forward will never be stopped. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u499	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. It's 11:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-28.u500	I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the ministers, the messengers, the clerks and everyone who has followed this debate in one way or another. Thursday, we'll continue with the government's answers. For now, I'm gonna close the meeting and I'm gonna say, "Home."
