ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u1	The Minister for the Environment and Living remains in our midst for a while, because we will proceed immediately with the Implementation Act amending the EU Waste Framework Directive. Five members have registered for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u2	I see that Mr Schonis of D66 joins us. Welcome! The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Ziegs, member of the VVD Group. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I had to see if I had the right text on me, because it went so fast after the VAO. Yes, I do; thank goodness. Mr. Chairman. The reason for this plenary debate was that in December 2015, the European Commission presented amendments to six existing directives on waste management. This was, of course, part of its policy package to promote the circular economy. This bill concerns one of those directives, which has been drawn up with the aim of dealing more efficiently with raw materials in order to achieve economic benefits, social benefits and environmental benefits, all in order to stimulate the circular economy. That'll appeal to our party, too. The legislative proposal brings national legislation on waste into line with the amending directive. At both Dutch and European level, there are significant objectives in the area of the circular economy. We understand that this bill provides for it to be brought into line with national legislation on waste, as I mentioned earlier. What are the facts? The amendment of the regulatory basis concerns the following three issues: national criteria on end-of-waste and by-products, comprehensive product responsibility and separate collection. I would like to say a few words about that in a moment. I indicated that the purpose of the legislative amendment is to stimulate the circular economy. That is very appealing to our party, as I have already indicated. Of course, it's very positive. A circular economy is not only good for the environment, it also offers huge opportunities for business. However, there are a number of issues that need to be clarified. It is striking that any financial consequences and the consequences for the regulatory burden are dealt with in a limited way. This is something that our group would like to see clarified. What are the financial consequences now? It is stated that the extended producer responsibility obliges producers, inter alia, to bear part or all of the financial responsibility for the management of the waste phase of substances, mixtures or products. Our question then is: how is this designed? Then the line pressure. I have already drawn attention to this in the input, prior to the debate. New obligations are imposed on companies, which will only be implemented later by means of lower regulation. At that time, the administrative burden will be further identified. That is, it seems, too limited, because what exactly are these new obligations? We face fewer burdens and fewer obligations for our Dutch companies. It must be settled here that they do not suffer from these additional obligations. Our group is committed to this, because the documents state that the amending directive is being implemented in a way that causes the least possible burden. What is the Minister doing specifically to reduce the regulatory burden? Finally, separate collection of textiles, bio-waste and hazardous fractions of household waste are also added to the list of mandatory collection. What exactly is the motivation for that? Is it purely a measure to raise the citizen? Is he gonna get any more containers on his doorstep? Or, as several cities are already doing, can we solve it with a separation? So it's not a separation, it's a separation. Is that cheaper? Is that easier? Can the Minister give a more detailed explanation? We have also tabled an amendment. I think that has already gone around, so the Minister will naturally appreciate that. Mr President, I am well within the time frame as you can see, so in that respect we can continue to have full speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u4	Thank you, Mr. Seengs. The second speaker on the side of the Chamber who has come forward is Mr Schonis. Mr Schonis is a member of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u5	Mr President, I have a raid on the subject of waste. I have to replace Mr Van Eijs, who unfortunately is in quarantine in Brabant. Mr. Chairman. Imagine: you put a cup of tea and on the packaging of the tea bag it says that it is made of biobased plastic. Then the quiz question: where do you throw away that bag after use? Is that a in the case of green waste, b in the case of plastic waste or c in the case of residual waste? Unfortunately, there is no answer. I'll explain why in a minute. In particular, I would like to illustrate with this question that, if you think carefully about how we deal with the products used and with waste, you can still face a lot of crazy situations. We are working hard to make the transition to a circular economy, an economy in which we reuse raw materials as much as possible. This is good for the planet and also offers new economic opportunities. Mr Ziengs referred to this earlier. The new European directive and thus this legislative proposal are another step in this transition. Mr. Chairman. So I cannot give a clear answer to the quiz question I just asked about which waste bin that biobased plastic tea bag should be discarded. Some bioplastics may be allowed in the green bin; other products must be included in the residual waste, even if it is stated that they are biocompostable. All this can be found on www.environmentalcentral.nl. We ask people to separate their garbage. Luckily, a lot of people want to do that. As far as D66 is concerned, we must make it as easy as possible for people to separate their waste properly. The mess of texts and logos completes the confusion. It is also not surprising that people accidentally make mistakes in separating their waste. Like some other parties in the Chamber, D66 has already asked questions about, for example, plastic in compost. The September CPB report on plastic also points to this. As far as D66 is concerned, producers are responsible for clearly indicating where something needs to be thrown away. D66 therefore looks forward to further developing the extensive producer responsibility in the AMvB for which this bill provides the basis. Mr. Chairman. Not only for our home, we need to make it easier to separate our waste properly. Current legislation identifies waste from social institutions such as schools as industrial waste. As a result, schools and other social institutions or educational institutions cannot give their waste to the municipal household waste collection service. Like companies, they have to sign contracts with professional waste processors. With their small amount of waste, it is generally not worthwhile collecting and offering that waste separately. This discourages them and does not encourage them to separate their waste. Does the Minister share D66's view that we should also make it easier for social institutions to separate their waste? I am considering another amendment on this point. Finally, Mr President. What's garbage? A simple question, which in practice turns out to lead to many complex legal questions, and already to a question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u6	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u7	I was curious to hear the amendment announced. We also have questions about this. It is this category of household industrial waste, to name but a few. This is about schools, gyms and all kinds of other places where waste does occur, but that waste really is not industrial waste. What's D66 thinking about? How can we tackle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u8	There are several ways to arrange it. As the proposal now stands, you should at least add a category in the law that is going to amend. You could say domestic corporate waste. Well, give the beast a name, but you have to find a good definition for it, which could then be further developed in the AMvB. Something like that, but that's very legal. But I do think we're pursuing the same goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u9	Very nice. I think that's a nice amendment. I'm happy to join you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u10	Well, who knows? I would have stayed with the question: what is waste? This is a very simple question, which can lead to very complex legal questions in practice. The task force that has advised on this bill points out that this is not only due to the laws and regulations. The capacity of legal specialists in environmental services is also often inadequate. That's bad. This leads to an uneven playing field between companies, both outside and within the Netherlands. Innovation in new applications of secondary materials and raw materials is even hampered. The Task Force highlights the need to improve in particular knowledge building and knowledge development within environmental waste legislation services. How is the Minister going to help the environmental services, we wonder? Mr President, I will conclude. That is quite special, because after a special feature that we have been able to share in the parliamentary interrogation committee, I have now been able to make my first contribution to a legislative debate in plenary, so I have taken another hurdle in my development as a Member of Parliament, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u11	I'm glad I got to witness that, Mr. Schonis. The third speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More, more, more. That's what the naughty boys and the naughty little maggots are screaming in choir today. More dictations from Brussels to tell us how to organise our waste policy. More control pressure and costs for our entrepreneurs. More senseless sustainability rules that are being pushed down our citizens' throats. The creed of this change of law is: swallowing or suffocating. Only the PVV sees the sadistic madness of this. For, Mr President, fuck the EU directives! We are not waiting at all for the implementation of the noise of Eurocrats in our Dutch legislation. If we want to change our waste policy, we'll do it ourselves. There is no need to use unelected EU bobo. We therefore consider it quite absurd that, on the basis of the amendment of the Waste Framework Directive, the European Commission should retain the power to adopt implementing regulations. This competence is supposedly desirable, as it best ensures the level playing field in the EU for the waste stream in question. Nonsense, Chairman. Total bullshit. The EU has once again found a way to attract more power and the Europhiles who are speaking here today are cooperating in this erosion of our Dutch sovereignty. Treason, that's it. I say to those MPs and to this minister, who is involved, that the elections are coming and the electorate will deal with you. Our entrepreneurs are driven by this change to huge costs. The PVV finds it quite appalling that this minister, in the note on the report, is freezingly saying that this bill has no financial impact. How does this minister rhyme with that world-frequent response with the opinion of the Advisory Board on Control Pressure, which firmly concludes that entrepreneurs alone will lose up to €70,000 to all additional administrative burdens? This minister, who personally caused the pfas crisis and drowned our entrepreneurs with it, can apparently not wait until she has her hands around the neck of the next sector. The waste sector must also be brutally destroyed by this crazy policy. Mr. Chairman. How far have we gone if we are to impose huge producer responsibility on entrepreneurs? If you make balloons, damp wipes or tobacco products, then you are wildly hunted for this minister, because she will not give up until you have succumbed to the enormous pressure of regulation. As an entrepreneur, you are now also responsible for the waste phase of a product. What's that gonna look like in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u13	Mr. Van Aalst, there's been an interruption by Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u14	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u15	When we were accused of treason, I was waiting for the moment when Mr Van Aalst came up with harsh evidence for this grand accusation. But I hear that he is against producer responsibility, so the idea of, for example, deposit money on bottles and cans, of which I have heard Mr Van Aalst as a warm advocate in the Chamber. Right? Mr Van Aalst's electorate also thinks that we should solve all those cans in the beds with deposit money. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u16	No, apparently the Mrs. van GroenLinks blacked out. I've never been here arguing for deposit. No, absolutely not. Landfill money does not contribute to litter. You probably missed that. I would ask you to read back the Acts, because then you really missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u17	Apparently. I have a lot of contact with people who might...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u18	Yes, I have a lot of contact with people too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u19	No, I was talking about the contact I have with perhaps also people who are in your electorate. You can see that 80% to 90% of the population wants deposit money. And why? It is precisely because it is so fair to make producers responsible for their waste stream, which we are now paying together. The Association of Dutch Municipalities, together with all of us, is now paying for the disposal of litter. Through deposit money or a more extensive producer responsibility, where you also look at other flows, the companies pay for it. Mr Van Aalst's electorate also very much wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u20	Let me at least distance myself from the idea that the electorate of GroenLinks is the same as that of the PVV. I don't think so. We didn't argue for deposit money. I don't think so. You take on stray garbage, and you do it by targeting those who cause it. It's too absurd for words that you're gonna hit a producer hard because people just throw garbage on the verge. That's exactly our point. I understand that GroenLinks is in a different position and the producer now wants to go hard on it, but if you think that's gonna solve it... No, Mrs Kröger, then the prices will go up in just a moment and the producer will pass it on. It'll end up hard and hard on your electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u21	I was a little surprised. I thought I'd fill in for Mrs. Van Eijs. But I suddenly come to a discussion about whether or not I belong to a group of traitors. Anyway, that aside. I've had a lot of tricky customers at my table in the last few weeks. But Mr. Van Aalst, now my question. You say that people are not prepared to separate more waste or to pay deposit money at all. But recent research shows precisely that in the past six years an increasingly large group of Dutch people want to separate a waste and b is willing to pay deposit money for it. That's 83% of all Dutch. I didn't think you had such a large constituency that there would be no PVV voters among those 83%. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u22	It's nice that D66 is coming up with all sorts of numbers right now, but I just said that I don't want people to bleed through deposit money, because I find that your stray garbage doesn't dissolve with deposit money. Because that's not gonna solve anything. We're gonna go after those people who throw that shit in the environment. You should do the same. Then, for example, our minister should not be swimming in those waste rivers, but should deal with the litter. That would be a good idea. You should argue for that as a coalition party!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u23	I think that deposit money on cans, for example, cans can help greatly against litter. A large part of the Netherlands is very much in agreement with me on this and there is an increasing support for this. But you don't see it that way, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u24	No, Mr. Chairman. It is crazy, because this colleague from D66 recently had all these people on his doorstep, or at least in his committee and so on, with whom he had spoken. Why don't you take people hard on those messing around? You had to do this in a different way in your committee. That's when you dropped out. Get those people for that stray trap. We have to deal with these people. That shit doesn't have to bleed all over the Netherlands. We don't have to put in an expensive deposit system for that. We don't have to tackle producers for that, which means that all prices are going up in a minute and everyone has to pay more to clean up someone else's mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u25	The logical follow-up question is: how are you going to deal with it? You're suggesting you're gonna put a cop on every corner of the street. I do not know if that is a much more advantageous solution than introducing deposit money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u26	Mr President, absurd. D66 wants to introduce a wood-burning police and a garbage police. Oh, come on. He's gonna blame me for checking out the corner of the street? Nonsense. It's called standards and values. You don't throw shit out on the street. You throw shit in the trash can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u27	I am also very curious how the PVV really wants to solve the litter problem. Is that only by issuing fines or does the PVV see any more possibilities? I agree with the previous speaker that, when it comes only to enforcement, there are going to be many major problems. In fact, I would like to argue in favour of this extensive producer responsibility and, if necessary, for tougher action. How does the PVV see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u28	We're gonna have to play hardball. To hold producers responsible for raising prices, I do not want to do that to my constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u29	Perhaps Mr Van Aalst will then be able to make it quite clear what this harder action looks like. How exactly is that supposed to happen? Then we can come to terms with that. Are those high fines or jail time? What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u30	You're making it a caricature now. We have to do it together. I have said before in all the debates we have had about deposit money: clean up your mess with each other and that's what you're talking to each other about. It's very simple. It's not that complicated. We don't change that with deposit money. Do you think a teenager in the future if he paid $0.25 deposit will throw the can in the container, which will help? No, that has to do with talking to each other and making sure you behave properly and clean up your mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u31	Mrs Kröger, there you are again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u32	76% of PVV's electorate really hopes for deposit money on bottles and cans. The electorate of GroenLinks is slightly higher, but it doesn't avoid each other much. What I don't understand is that Mr Van Aalst doesn't want to understand that the cost of cleaning up litter is going to end up in the municipalities over hundreds of millions of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those municipalities have to finance that from sources that they can do other things with. These are exactly the things that Mr Van Aalst and I think I want municipalities to have more money for. Mr. Van Aalst pretends it doesn't cost any money, cleaning up stray garbage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u33	What if Mrs. Kröger just looks around? Over the past few weeks, I've seen the municipalities that have introduced that great diphthar system. Do you know what is currently the largest source of litter in municipalities? That is the diphtheria problem, caused by the GroenLinks factions in all those municipalities who said: "Great, that diphtheria. We need to put that in everywhere. Divorce with each other." It's become a big fucking gang. We've never had such polluted waste streams. It doesn't solve anything. Pests run through the streets of Enschede. Why don't you take a look over there? That is the policy that GroenLinks stands for. Well, I don't think that's such a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u34	I believe that two completely different subjects are now being mixed. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I'd rather keep them separate, just like the garbage. I think we're talking about dealing with stray waste. Then you can put a lot of enforcers and lots of cleaning crews out on the street. We're doing some of that right now, and it's costing incredibly much money. The VNG says, please, make deposit. Now Mr Van Aalst says: no, that is not necessary and no more cleaning is needed. What's it gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u35	I've just explained this to you: just being perfectly normal, neat and decent with each other. Then we have a enforcement department looking at that. So if you're just gonna raise your kids nicely, so am I. Then we'll take care of each other... It was once another GroenLinks slogan, I believe: improve the world, start with yourself. You know, just clean up the mess. That is the point in this discussion. We're not gonna solve that with a deposit story. I'm sorry you're not ready, but it'll come naturally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u36	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u37	The question I ended up with is: what is this going to look like in practice? Is the Minister coming with a garbage police after the wood-cracking police now? I'd like a response from the Minister. This is too crazy for words, isn't it? We still have to talk about the total hypocrisy that our waste policy is called and that this minister is fully involved in. Because this cabinet's own political self-pollination has no boundaries when it comes to environmental virtues, but it is now destroying truly sustainable waste policy. Take, for example, a nice company like Twence in Hengelo, which generates energy with waste. That must sound fantastic in the ears of all those left-wing parties. But no, they have to pay for an increased import rate on waste from abroad. What about all those coffee cups from civil servants, which are being recycled so sustainably here? That's not gonna happen. Those millions, millions, millions of cups just come together like farm waste and we just chase through that incinerator. But we're doing something so durable. Mr. Chairman. We now come to the useless diftar, which forces waste to be separated. I was just talking about it. Some waste streams, such as plastic, have become more polluted than ever by this kind of stupid measures. Who's the bill gonna be with? With the taxpayer. That's it. That's it. That's it. Mr. Chairman. This amendment of the law continues in a cheerful way. From 1 June 2020 it should also be compulsory to separate paper, metal, plastic and glass. On 1 January 2025 textiles and dangerous fractions of household waste were added. Next to your green and grey container, six more containers will be placed in your front yard. Oh, that's good. I wonder who's gonna see those square meters back on his World War II attack. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps you have already learned a bit from our contribution: the PVV will vote against this legislative amendment. We do not have a waste problem in the Netherlands, we have a D66-wise nose problem. The only thing that should really be called waste and thrown directly into the incinerator is this legislative amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. The next speaker was Ms Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u39	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I was with forest ranger Jacques and dozens of volunteers in De Biesbosch to clean up plastic. Because of the high water the banks are full of plastic. It's unbelievable what you find there. From Q-tips, toothbrushes, empty bottles and root cloth, lots of carrot cloth, to half mattresses. That is the saddest result of the disposable economy we have: washed up dirt in one of our most beautiful and vulnerable natural areas. Today we are talking about waste legislation, or rather, as far as I am concerned, about legislation to prevent waste. We all agree, or maybe almost all of us, that waste is a raw material in the circular economy. We really need to do everything we can to make sure that we produce less waste and that we can re-use what we produce properly. As far as we are concerned, it is important that we use a European approach to reduce waste and harmonise legislation. We have one market, so all products in Europe have to comply with the same rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u40	Let me ask you something. We have seen a lot of this left-wing policy to do everything about these waste streams. What do we see now? What are the facts? The facts are that there has never been so much waste and that the flows have never been so polluted. Hallelujah, what a great policy. Don't you agree, Mrs Kröger of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u41	I do not think I need remind Mr Van Aalst that GroenLinks has never been in the cabinet before. The waste policy and the circular economy policy we advocate is not yet in practice. In my opinion, this minister has a circular economy that is very important. I hope this law is a step in that direction. In that direction I would very much like to think through with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u43	Good. All products in Europe must comply with the same rules. We want to move towards a fully circular economy. As we import by far the majority of consumer products, it can only be done with European agreements. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this law is a step; I have just said that. It's not quite where we need to get out yet. There's no such thing as garbage. That's where we have to go. But it is a step forward and so GroenLinks supports the bill. However, there are a number of issues that we are concerned about and for which we would like to look ahead to what might be the next steps. I'll start with producer responsibility. As far as we are concerned, this circular economy starts not so much with separating your waste, but with producers who design our products. We want products that are sustainable because they last longer and can also be repaired. We want products that are sustainable because they do not contain harmful substances or need harmful substances for their production. And we want products that can easily be separated at the end of their lifespan and whose components can easily be reused again. All this is clearly in a different piece of regulation in Europe: the Ecodesign Directive. I wonder how the Ecodesign Directive and this waste legislation interact with the Minister. Where are the cross-links that strengthen one another and what can we do with them in the implementation in the Netherlands? In the case of a well-regulated producer responsibility, this is the way we make products and then the producer also ensures that the products can be restored and return to the recycling and reuse process at the end of their lifespan. This is not a question of a sponsored waste bin, but of deposit money, collection and exchange premiums, minimum rates of recycling and a product design that lends itself to this. So this law is taking steps. The extensive producer responsibility will be further developed in different AMvBs, we understand. Are there any examples of products in other European countries that are subject to the extensive producer responsibility that we do not yet have? I know that the Minister is hanging out with her European colleagues. Does she see European examples of extensive producer responsibility which she is enthusiastic about and which we can also look forward to here in the Netherlands? I'm really curious. When can we expect the follow-up action in concrete terms? I am talking, for example, about the extensive producer responsibility for textiles. Could we decorate it in such a way that we can tackle the problem of poverty in textiles right away? Is that also a way to reduce the pfas pollution? And how do we prevent us from constantly developing new plastics and other substances that are not recyclable? Where's the stick? What can the Netherlands do for itself? How do we proceed: by sector or by raw material? And of which substances, production processes or products do we dare to say that we no longer need them in the future because we cannot make them circular and we therefore have to get rid of them? In fact, I am asking the Minister for a practical follow-up but also for a long-term vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u44	I was just curious about all those circular ideas from GroenLinks, especially when we look at an electric car for example. How are you gonna make that circular, and those windmills and those solar panels? How do you see that? How are we going to make it circular for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u45	I think that is an interesting question from Mr Van Aalst. The electric car, for example, seems to me to be an excellent example of what you would like to have a producer responsibility for. If you buy that car, the manufacturer will remain responsible for the battery and for the processing of those substances to ensure that that battery and all those raw materials can be used again. Precisely because the electric car is a very new market, which is going to roll out in the Netherlands, we can imagine that from the start. So I would like to propose to Mr Van Aalst: will we make a proposal to the Minister for Extended Producer Responsibility for Batteries of Electric Cars?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u46	No. I would like to mention a few more examples: but how? No, what I now notice is that GroenLinks thinks: "We have a wet dream. Then we do electric cars, then we do windmills, then we do solar panels. But the problem of how we're about to recycle it, how soon the new asbestos will emerge in nature, we'll leave it with the producer. You take care of it." But they're your ideas. These are ideas from GroenLinks: "Go electric. Windmills. Solar panels. Totally awesome. Topsy! Little kids chase down the cobalt mines. Go, go, go, go, Produce catchphrases." You should not point to the producer and say: solve it. No, GroenLinks, solve the problem of recycling now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u47	The beauty of extensive producer responsibility is that this is a responsibility that we take as a government. So I'm not gonna leave it with the producer. I'm actually saying, as a government, we have to arrange for product flows with many hazardous substances or with high recycling potential to be absorbed and for producers to organise recycling and processing. I really like electric cars, so I hope the Minister will respond to Mr Van Aalst's example. I was talking about plastics. I was actually wondering if the Minister is thinking of a percentage of recycled material that should be used mandatory and that is slowly, incrementally, growing. What do we lay down in regulations and what happens in voluntary agreements, such as a Plastic Pact? I am concerned that this Minister is doing a lot on a voluntary basis. On the one hand I admire her persistence at the Plastic Pact and on the other hand I'm also worried about all those left behind. How do we ensure that the bulk of companies that have not joined will actually take action? Then I have a question about the implementation and role of the various competent authorities in, among other things, licensing and end-of-waste status. We are pursuing European harmonisation. This is good for the environment and clearly for producers and consumers, but the Minister is going to work out a lot in AMvBs and ministerial arrangements. Eventually, the municipalities decide on the basis of the judgements of the environmental services. Is that right? How is that compatible? On the one hand, we have European rules, such as REACH and POP, and on the other hand, decisions are actually taken at a low local level. Shouldn't the frameworks be laid down per ministerial arrangement? The Minister wants to determine by ministerial arrangement when something is waste. Which part is destroyed and which part goes back to the chain will have to be determined separately for each group. That's a hell of a job. I think it would be wise for this to be done mainly at official level and by ministerial arrangement, but as a Member of Parliament, I would like to stay on board and be involved. We want ambition and progress. Is the Minister prepared to involve the Chamber and keep it actively informed about the substances, groups and products in question? I am considering a motion on this point. One concern that I have already mentioned many times is the very worrying substances in the circular economy. The European Parliament has made a very clear statement on the need for the circular economy to be poison-free. We cannot afford to allow all those dangerous substances that we have allowed in the past few decades with lack of knowledge to be pumped around endlessly, because waste becomes raw material again. Is the Minister prepared to review the components of the LAP3 with regard to substances of very high concern and to include the recommendations of the RIVM study on substances of very high concern in the circular economy? Will there be a plan of action based on the recommendations of the RIVM study? For for us there is still a lot of uncertainty about many substances. We really need to get those substances under control before we push them into the circular economy. Then I have a question about the instruments we have for very worrying substances. Can we also apply the obligation to minimise waste streams? Should we not seek to minimise potential substances of high concern in waste, given that waste is becoming a raw material again in the circular economy? Due to the stricter standards on emissions to air and water, for example, Chemours 95% of these very worrying substances are now leaving the site as waste stream via the gate. Shouldn't we want to minimize right there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u48	I hope I understood Mrs Kröger correctly. I understand that she wants to eliminate the very worrying substances from the whole circular story and I have a question for Mrs Kröger. There are substances that are now a problem. I am thinking, for example, of asbestos. That's being put underground and covered up right now. Suppose you can still do something with it in the circularity, so you can turn it into a building material and eliminate the worrying substances that are in it. Is that an option in the circularity that suits GroenLinks? Because that is the direction we often look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u49	I think it is important that we have seen in the dossier of the very worrying substances that we are now actually faced with errors or estimations, as I would call it, perhaps ten or fifteen years ago, when it was not at all clear what the real consequences of these substances were. The precautionary principle must therefore really be a guiding principle in this. In the circular economy, we turn waste into raw materials again. My concern is that these very worrying substances go around endlessly, when you no longer have the view that you do have on primary products. That is why I asked my question about the obligation to minimise waste streams, because then you consider the waste stream to be a fully-fledged raw material, including the rules you have for primary raw materials. The short answer to Mr Ziengs' question is that I can well imagine that there are currents that you can still use, if you have really secured all the security measures. But you'll have to adjust your regulations to that. What is threatening to happen now is that if something is waste, it also disappears out of sight in that sense. Then you don't have the care we have on primary raw material flows either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u50	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u51	Finally, a point on household industrial waste. In fact, I agree with Mr Schonis' comments on this point. In the Netherlands, we have a distinction between household waste and industrial waste in collection and processing systems. That makes sense in itself, but of course there is a whole category of household industrial waste, because a lot of companies are not Chemours, but just an office or a store and they just produce kitchen waste and packaging material. So I would like to ask the Minister whether we can see if we can do something with this category, so that household waste can also be collected separately and simply get into the same treatment system as ordinary household waste. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u52	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr von Martels. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go back a little bit in time. It was the CDA'er Ad Lansink, who was a member of this Chamber from 1977 to 1988, who introduced the ladder of Lansink. In fact, he was a member until 1998; let me not let him down. The Lansink ladder is a standard in the field of waste management and became a concept in 1979 when he tabled a motion. Since then, waste policy has been aimed at giving priority to the most environmentally friendly treatment methods. These are at the top of the ladder. Government policy should aim to allow as much waste as possible to climb the Lansink ladder. In practice, this means that it will always be considered whether a certain step can be achieved. Only if this is not the case will a further, lower step be eligible. The Lansink ladder consists of the following steps: prevention, reuse, sorting and recycling, incineration and landfill. We are now a few decades further. Then we talked about recycling or reuse. Now it is called 'circular economy' and waste is increasingly thought of in the sense of raw materials. After all, a lot of waste is raw material. In the sense of the Lansink ladder, we could now name an extra step, namely the step to use waste as a raw material. Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Environmental Management Act that is on the agenda this evening is needed in connection with the implementation of the EU Waste Directives. It is one of the directives drawn up with the aim of improving the efficiency of raw materials so that major economic and social benefits and environmental benefits can be achieved in order to stimulate the circular economy. This legislative proposal brings national legislation on waste into line with the amending directive and provisions of the Waste Framework Directive. We are generally positive about this implementation, but of course we always have some questions and comments. We see a national mess of rules on separate collection of waste from households. We understand that municipalities want different policies and sometimes have to have different ones, because collecting separate gfts in the inner cities, where there is not even room to store containers, cannot oblige municipalities. However, there is still unclear regulation. Businesses are also affected by this. Take, for example, the mess with rules on plastic, metal and beverage cartons or the PMD packaging. Blister pack, for example toothbrushes blister strips, should be placed separately in the PMD bag, but not in the blister strips of medicines or chewing gum. All drinking cans, but an empty can of water paint wasn't in it. Consumers and producers would like to have one clear, logical directive for the whole of the Netherlands, so that producers can put it on the packaging. Would the Minister like to see more streamlining in the different rules on separate waste collection? Mr President, then something else. The KRO-NCRV programme De Monitor reported a few weeks ago that millions of coffee cups that the government threw away last year ended up in the incinerator, while they were supposed to be recycled. Two years ago, the Empire found out what were the most durable cups and came out with cardboard copies with a bioplastic coating. They would be recycled into toilet paper or paper towels, but unfortunately they didn't get much of it, because more than 90% of all cups were too polluted to be reused. In total, it was 85 million cups; we'll talk about something. My question is whether the cups of the House of Representatives were included. Have we set an example ourselves? We know that in the Binnenhof there is not only pure coffee. So what are the results of this? Mr. Chairman. We also have questions about illegal dumping of waste. Illegal waste dumping may cover different types of waste, such as asbestos, drug waste, household and industrial waste and contaminated waste water. We are surprised that there are no figures on the costs of illegal dumping of the various types of waste. There are only a few figures available on dumping of drug waste. The Minister states that the prevention and disposal of waste dumping is primarily the responsibility of municipalities, provinces and owners of natural sites, but we think that is an all too easy answer. What about research into the origin of the waste? And if there's any indication of the perpetrators, how are we finding and prosecuting the perpetrators? What does the Empire do to prevent this? Finally, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to chewing gum and cigarette butts. There's a lot of irritation about that. A lot of people get annoyed by that. The fact that chewing gum and cigarette butts are on the streets has two causes: the manufacturers who make the products and do not care so much about the irritation and nuisance they cause and the costs they impose on governments, and the people who throw away their cigarette butts or chewing gum carelessly. Of course, they also have an important role to play. People often say you have to deal with waste reduction at the source, but, yeah, what's the source? I see that not the people are the source, but the manufacturers also have a role to play. I don't make garbage; I have to buy products that keep me stuck with garbage. Of course, I have a responsibility to deal with the waste I'm being saddled with. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to deal with both of them. Businesses have a responsibility for the waste that it causes with the sale of its products. And we also need to appeal to the public. That's gonna have to be a decent behavior. Just throwing away a cigarette or gum is antisocial. You don't. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u54	We have another interruption. The first is from Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u55	I can see two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u56	Yeah, I got a question. I hear the CDA saying that we're even gonna put gum and cigarettes at the producer's house. But we certainly have to put that in people's minds as well. I do not yet see how Mr von Martels intends to do that, how he intends to hold the producer responsible for that piece of chewing gum on the street. Or are we now getting proposals from the CDA to put deposit money on gum and cigarettes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u57	The answer is no, but perhaps Mr Van Aalst would like another clarification. We do not want to go that far, but I would like to point out that both the producer and the consumer have a responsibility in preventing waste and litter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u58	But what do you want to blame the producer for throwing their chewing gum or their cigarette on the street? Isn't that something you don't do to each other? That's a piece you get from home; that's what we call upbringing. That's what we have to do with each other. How do you propose to hold the producer responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u59	You can indeed oblige the producer to think about finding a solution so that we can avoid the creation of litter or waste in a general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u60	And Mr. Ziesgs has come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u61	We've had several debates on this litter. We also know that cigarette butts are covered by microplastics, especially because of the filters attached to them. By the way, it is good that people also know that these are microplastics, because I think most of the Dutch people have no idea. Once I was a guest at the annual congress of a well-known party and there I saw the butts flying into the bushes. I'm just gonna take a look at the Minister. Anyway, it was a nice convention. I once put it into a debate that it would also be possible to just sit down with the industry for once, to see if it could not produce anything else. And then there is something very strange about this dossier, namely that no ministry apparently wants to talk to that industry, because of an article 5.3, which has nothing to do with litter and so on. Would Mr von Martels agree with his colleague on that dossier, while enjoying a cup of coffee or something like that, and another product is sometimes a bit difficult for the CDA to look at the option of getting in touch with the industry, to see if he himself might be willing to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u62	A very long introduction. Mr Ziengs asks so kindly that you can hardly refuse his request. It would certainly be wise to do so, to enter into that conversation, to look for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u63	The reason I ask is that Mr von Martels speaks so emphatically about producer responsibility every time, while there is also a responsibility on the part of the government to see if they want to do so on a voluntary basis. I have the slight impression that this is the case, but that we do not have the opportunity to do so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u64	It will not be the CDA's fault, but I am also very curious about the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u65	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of the Chamber. I'll take a look at the minister. I shall suspend the sitting until 9:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u66	The next item is still the Implementation Act amending the EU Waste Framework Directive. We have arrived at the Prime Minister's first term. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to Members for their input. I would like to divide the answer into three blocks; then you will know when to expect something. The first is a number of questions that have been asked about the law itself and about the instrument of producer responsibility. Then a number of questions related to waste separation. When does a product become garbage? And then there are a number of other questions. Some of the questions about this bill are indeed being drawn towards the general consultation on circular economy that we will soon have. Perhaps in a number of questions I will say that I will return to that AO Circular economy, because they do not directly relate to the legislative proposal that lies here. The revised Directive is an important step forward for the circular economy. This is certainly the case for the Netherlands, but also for a number of other countries, which are far less advanced in the development of the circular economy. It brings that circular economy one step closer across Europe. This is a smaller step for the Netherlands than it is for many other countries, but it is good that this development continues evenly throughout Europe. The Netherlands has already taken many steps. We also have a lot of ambitions. We are working step by step to bring that closer. This bill is a first step in the implementation of the directive in Dutch law. In line with standard government policy, this is simply a matter of pure implementation. That means we don't implement other things at the same time. This bill contributes to the circular economy by providing a legal basis for detailed rules on extensive producer responsibility and the separate collection of waste. This will allow for the later establishment at national level of rules on the frameworks to be met by extended producer responsibility schemes, on which flows should always be collected separately and also on where exceptions are possible. I will come back to that later. Furthermore, this bill includes the conditions for determining whether there is end-of-life waste or a by-product in the Environmental Management Act. There are two more general administrative measures, a scheme and an impact in the Landelijk Waste Management Plan. In the context of the European Commission's action plan for a circular economy that we expect shortly, a number of relevant proposals are also being made on issues that can best be dealt with at European level, such as Mrs Kröger asked for the percentage of recycled plastic in products. Given the internal market, it is most effective to regulate this for a large part of the internal market. Especially if you make it, it's important. Of course, it's easier to move on willingly. That is what we are doing with the European Plastic Pact. With 90 parties, 15 Member States and also regional authorities, we make agreements to go further on a voluntary basis than we can currently go with the regulation. But we also expect the European Commission's proposal, of course. What's the bill for separate collection? It lays down the basis for further rules on the separate collection of waste. The starting point will be, for the whole of Europe, that biowaste, plastics, metal, glass, paper, textiles and hazardous waste must be collected separately. But it is also possible under conditions to make an exception for certain flows. Those exceptions are also included in the upcoming AMvB. As far as possible, the possibility of using an exception is in line with existing municipal practice. Exceptions are possible only for PMD and biowaste. Separation of PMD which was a question from Mr Ziegs....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Biowaste does not require source separation where it is technically not feasible or involves excessive costs. This means that municipalities have to state in their waste regulation why they have recourse to the exception. In the LAP, the possibilities of using the exceptions for each stream can be further addressed, i.e. which can be considered proportionate or disproportionate. Of course, we are engaged in administrative discussions with the competent authorities in order to implement this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u68	I'm starting to get a little worried. I understand from this that this exception can take place when it comes to the post-mortem separation of PMD. But what about glass and textiles, et cetera? Aren't they part of the divorce? Do they have to be delivered separately? How's the delivery, the divorce, then? Should it be at the source, so with the citizen himself, or can it be at the disposal of the waste collector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u69	In my opinion, glass should be handed in separately by now anyway. I'll be back on textiles later. This exception, which is possible on the basis that the Directive lays down separate collection, applies to PMD, i.e. plastic, metal and beverage cartons, and bio-waste. It's possible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u70	Now I'm more of a practical man, but I know that a lot of glass is also disappearing in the grey container and that this can then be taken out by the waste processors. That is what my question is about. The Minister now says that glass should be collected separately. I don't think there's any need for that. I believe that this is a process that was created at the time by the well-known deposit exchange discussion. That's when it was taken off. Eventually it turned out that the citizen wanted to keep it separate in the glass containers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u71	I believe that glass is also the subject of producer responsibility. An agreement has been made on the amount of glass that would be collected separately. Those collection rates have been set. I think the agreement has been made to collect it separately, but I do not know from my mind exactly how it is now arranged and exactly what is required. I can come back to that in a second term. But the fact that not everyone keeps the agreement that it is picked up separately, because people still put it in a garbage bag after which it is taken out, is of course different from that there is a generic possibility to do it before or after separation. That is, I think, the difference from the situation Mr Ziegs is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u72	I, too, have a question about the separation. Isn't it true that separation is quite difficult if you haven't taken out the wet fraction, so the bio-waste? Because that just greatly pollutes the quality of the separation. So, if those exceptions are made and we are being guided by after-distinguishment, shouldn't you at least have collected the graft or the bio-waste separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u73	It is true that there are hooks and eyes on it, but the directive clearly creates that possibility for bio-waste. So it's possible. This is also subject to conditions. It is therefore really a question of how these conditions will be defined in the near future. As I have just indicated, we are entering into administrative discussions on these questions. How do we define it? When is something technically impossible? When is something economically impossible? We'll come back to that in the Chamber. That is what is being worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u74	Okay, well, then I'm very curious about that further development. I hope, then, that the Minister will pay particular attention to quality, regardless of whether anything is economically feasible. I hope she will also look at the extent to which the currents that you get after separation if there is still a wet fraction are actually high-quality recyclable. Because I think that's what you see in practice: those streams get polluted and ruined, which means they can be used much less high quality. Can this therefore specifically include the degree of recyclability of the flows after separation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u75	The directive indicates what the grounds are. It indicates what the areas are, but also how to deal with the assessment of those areas. Separation, e.g. the PMD flow, remains possible if it achieves a comparable environmental result as with source separation. Thus, the directive actually indicates how to assess when an exception can be granted and when not. However, the aim is to be consistent with existing practices. That is how it is defined in the negotiations on the directive. That will have to be further worked out. We do that in good consultation with all the boards. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the producer responsibility and a number of other questions about the bill. In particular, questions have been asked about the administrative burden. The legislative proposal itself does not entail any new administrative burden. That was the question: are there administrative burdens, and, if so, where do they come from? The bill has also been reviewed by the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review. But there are still some AMvBs coming. There are small financial consequences. I will come back to that in a moment. Moreover, the various amendments to this legislative proposal also provide for simplification and have an indirect lightening effect on the regulatory burden. This includes, for example, clarification of the conditions for by-products and end-of-waste status, and the direct review of these conditions. In the explanatory notes to the AMvBs, I will explicitly address the regulatory burden plus the financial consequences of the AMvBs. That was actually the point to which Mr Van Aalst referred. So you have the distinction between the legislative proposal itself, which has no financial implications, and the AMvBs, where we will discuss what that means. That was also a question from Mr Ziengs. What we do comes from pure implementation. I was just getting started on that. What we do, we have to do, I'll just say in domestic language. It is therefore a direct consequence of the obligations of the Directive. So we also have no choice but to say: we do not. But we are going for a slow implementation. For lower regulation, the administrative burden has been identified. So that was also tested by the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review. In the case of producer responsibility, the financial burden per material flow shall be explained when an AMvB is submitted to submit producer responsibility for something. So there is actually a layering in it when the various costs are made available. Mr Ziegs said that he was aware that there might be interest in a certain sector in taking some initiatives to prevent litter. Of course, it is always very good to take note of that. The implementation of the SUP Directive should examine how to approach producers. The current agreements are that we have no contact with this industry. However, Mr Ziengs is aware of this. If an initiative is brought to our attention, we are of course happy to take note of it. Mr Von Martels drew attention to the problem of chewing gum. There is no EU proposal yet for producer responsibility for chewing gum, but we are going to see what are the best policy options to tackle and prevent chewing gum pollution. After the summer I will inform you about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u76	The Minister indicated that she is willing to listen to industry initiatives that are not directly spoken to by the Ministry. If there is indeed an initiative to change the filters for cigarettes in that case, we were specifically talking about the change in the product, can I assume that the Ministry, at least the Minister, actually intends to enter into such a discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u77	I am trying to tell Mr Ziengs that we have certain guidelines for contacts with these sectors. On the other hand, we also see that there is a waste problem here. I am therefore trying with my colleague to find a way in which we can respect both the agreements that apply in the broadest sense to contacts with them and find a good solution to this waste problem. Of course, we must always be able to learn about what is going on in one way or another. Perhaps Mr Ziengs can even play a leading role. Good ideas are always welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u78	I will do my best, because I thought it was a fairly politically correct answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u79	And even though it's so late at night. Where is producer responsibility regulated? Extended producer responsibility also makes producers responsible for the waste phase of their product. This is therefore laid down in a producer responsibility, for example for packaging and electronic equipment. The EU lays down minimum requirements for the UPDs. They are implemented in the Netherlands via an AMvB. Producers should ensure, under such a UPD, that waste management targets are met, that there is an appropriate collection system, that annual reports are made and that consumers are informed. Producers must also bear the costs. It is up to producers to decide how they want to carry out their responsibility and with which parties they want to cooperate. The AMvB with general rules for the UPDs is in preparation for this bill. I'll inform your room about that this spring. Are there examples of producer responsibility in other EU countries and perhaps examples that could be interesting for the Netherlands? That was a question from Mrs Kröger. Yes, we are, of course, following closely what is happening in other countries. We would also like to learn from experiences in other countries. In the field of tariff differentiation, for example, the Netherlands has now gained interesting experiences. Other countries are interested in that again. So we'll see what we can learn from. In the direction of the AO Circular economy, I will come back to you on this point. France is indeed a country which, I think, is recognised as a frontrunner in the use of the tool of producer responsibility. Towards the AO Circular economy, I'll come back to that. The question was then asked: how do the Ecodesign Directive and the Waste Directive work together? That was also a question from Mrs Kröger. Through producer responsibility, a link can be made between waste rules and product requirements according to ecodesign, for example through the tariff differentiation I mentioned earlier, where products are rewarded at a lower rate if they are recyclable or repairable or do not contain harmful substances. So a combination can be made. The first concrete example in the Netherlands is the tariff differentiation for recyclable packaging. Here too, however, I look forward to the European Commission's circular economy action plan. We still have to receive this, but that could include a wider use of the Ecodesign Directive to stimulate the circular economy. Mrs Kröger asked whether we could tackle the textile-pfas problem as well. The European Commission is currently examining the textile restriction proposal. If that route doesn't yield anything, we can see if we can take it with us in the broad restriction on pfas in products. But perhaps that direction of restriction on specific textiles can also yield something. The application is not currently prohibited. This does not help the extensive producer responsibility to combat pfas in textiles. But in the textile policy programme, which I am sending to you in the short term, I will also mention how I deal with UPV in textiles. When we talk about what you do at national level, at European level or even in fact in even longer international chains, textiles are, of course, a sector where they come very quickly if you just want to have effective results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u80	My question about pfas and textiles was not so much about the banishment that I am also very much in favour of; I know that in the long term the Minister is going to use it, but above all about all the pfas that are now in textiles. At the moment you would have an extensive producer responsibility, you would, for example, buy such a beautiful raincoat with a pfas layer, which can subsequently turn in and that coat will then be properly processed. So it's actually a way to keep a grip on those dangerous substances in the chain. In that context, I asked myself if the Minister could look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u81	Breder asked Mrs Kröger a question about pfas in the waste streams. I'll come back to that later. I think she is actually looking for a way, when you know that there is pfas in a particular waste stream, to prevent it from getting into the wide waste stream, because it might affect the reuse of this broad waste stream. Let me think about this, and also specifically about the issue of textiles. I'll just go to the AO Circular economy and tell you what possibilities we can see for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u82	Then I would very much like to give the Minister something to think about. Another well-known stream is, of course, the fire extinguishing foam. There are a lot of fire extinguishers in which pfas will not be used in a few years because there are new ones. How do we ensure that those old fire extinguishers that are everywhere in offices and I know where, are collected separately and can also be processed? A form of extensive producer responsibility could also be found there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u83	Thanks for the suggestion. It is indeed a very clearly identifiable group of products that we also know is in it. We're coming up with a collectible letter to the AO Circular economy. Then we will also come back to the question of whether there is any possibility of collecting this stream separately in order to prevent these pfas containing substances from going further into the environment or possibly reducing the recyclability of other streams by containing pfas. So thank you for the question. Then I come to a number of questions about waste separation and about products. Mrs Kröger says that local authorities decide on the status of waste on the basis of environmental services. Is that correct and how do we reconcile that with the EU frameworks? In the Netherlands, we do indeed have a decentralised system whereby a competent authority in the context of the authorisation and enforcement can assess on a case-by-case basis the status of a material. These are municipalities and provinces, and often the environmental services in their mission. Part of the assessment of whether something is waste or not is also the assessment of whether the use is lawful. The competent authority should then look at the laws and regulations such as REACH and POP and at the possible adverse effects on people and the environment. That's part of the review. For this I have also prepared a hand-out. In fact, Mrs Kröger's question was as well: how do we ensure that the level of knowledge is sufficient to enable us to assess it properly? So we have prepared a handout for this. We will also continue to pay attention to this, because the question of whether parties know when it can be allowed as end-of-life waste is an important condition for exploiting opportunities. But that also really depends on its specific use. Following on from that question, I am also currently exploring the possibility of achieving more end-of-life and by-products criteria. The exploration should provide a list of residual flows that could be covered by a ministerial arrangement. I'll send you the results of the reconnaissance. It was a question for Mrs Kröger to be kept informed. By 1 July 2020 at the latest, you will be informed about this exploration. If, on the basis of this, flows are allowed in the future, it would be a good idea to send information on this to the Chamber once in a while. It may be logical to link that to the revisions of the LAP or something, but I think it would be logical for the Chamber to be informed in a relevant context about the new decisions on what can be seen as end-of-life waste. So let us return to the way in which we can do that right. Mr Schonis also said that the question 'what is waste'. is a complex question. He also mentioned the Task Force on Retirement Wastes and Environmental Services. The conclusions and recommendations of the task force's investigation, the Task Force's Advisory Report on Reanimation Wastes, and the ILT's signal are indeed known. I sent a letter to the Chamber in November 2019 stating that I will send an implementation agenda for the summer to the Chamber. That was also a bit of Mrs Kröger's question. Is there sufficient knowledge and expertise? Do we ensure that this can also be monitored and managed in the VTH system in a good way? The agenda therefore addresses the knowledge infrastructure "How do we ensure that knowledge is up-to-date"? • the professionalisation of implementation, independence, including of environmental services, and the new tasks resulting from legislative changes. In developing these themes, capacity is of course one of the components. Mrs Kröger asked what we can do in the Netherlands and what products we might have to get rid of. If you are not careful, the pollution spreads, as in the example she mentioned of the fire extinguishers, the textiles and pfas. If you're not careful, you're spreading the pollution, so can you isolate it somehow? In the circular economy implementation programme, I stimulate a better product design with the CIRCO approach, circular design. It is in fact about better repairable and recyclable, but also about the use of recycled materials and the prevention of very worrying substances. Those are all elements. At the same time, we must note that not all substances of very high concern have been or can be phased out immediately. Then you may need to focus more on isolating such a flow, to prevent them from entering a wider waste stream or into the environment. Therefore, there are still several routes to prevent very worrying substances from affecting the environment or hindering the circular economy. We will also have to look at the steps that fit in with this. Through CIRCO, products made in the Netherlands will be further preserved. I cannot ban products produced outside the Netherlands. That is why the European track of the internal market is so important to make agreements for all those products that are imported. Mr Schonis asked about the separate collection in schools. Over the last few months I have been in extensive consultation with the Vereniging Vereniging Vereniging Vereniging Vereniging Vereniging Bedrijven en de NVRD. I had hoped for a positive outcome until very recently. Mrs Kröger asked for this too. It was actually a kind of household waste, for example in schools. We were hoping that we could have waste collected separately from primary schools at a reasonable rate. Unfortunately, we have not been able to reach an agreement with the Vereniging Vereniging Vereniging Vereniging Vereniging Vereniging Bedrijven, but we are still examining what steps can be taken. We'll come back to this for the AO Circular economy by letter. Of course, I have to wait and see what Mr Schonis's amendment looks like, but it could perhaps play a role in that, because it at least provides a basis for doing something. I'll wait for the amendment. Then I could come back to it in a letter, prior to the AO Circular economy. The CDA fraction asked about the unclearness that arises about PMD: a blister in PMD, but not press-through drugs and chewing gum. I myself sometimes stand with one of my family members at the trash can and then wonder: where does this one go? We need to make that easier for everyone. That will never be 100% self-evident, but if there is anything on the packaging about where it has to go, that will of course help enormously. As a consumer, you just know what to look at if you want to separate your garbage. So we are talking and it would be nice if we could achieve a little more uniformity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u84	We're talking, I hear the Minister say. Then I'm curious about the possible directions for resolution. Maybe we could start working with coding. How are we gonna fix that? In what direction does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u85	This is also one that belongs a bit more to the AO on circular economy, so let me point out that I might be able to see if we can include some ideas in the collection letter to discuss them with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u86	Of course, I will come back to the divorce, because the Minister says that we all have to make things nice and easy. All I see is that I see people driving cars, because they had to turn in their grey container. They are all on their way with their car, good for the emissions, to those underground containers to put their waste in there, which then fails. That leads to mountains of garbage and vermin around those containers. I can't imagine that's what the minister means by circular economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u87	Circular economy is about recycling waste, but it is also about preventing waste and ensuring that it is collected in such a way that it can be re-used as high quality as possible. If indeed a lot of bags are torn apart, which leads to litter, then that does not contribute at all. So also the quality of the collection is of course a very important part. Municipalities are responsible for this. They also choose their own system. That freedom is there. Some municipalities opt for cliques. Other municipalities say: in view of the situation in our municipality, we opt for a separation system. Those possibilities are there. As I have just pointed out, there are still possibilities under the directive for choosing something of its own. But I share with Mr Van Aalst that it is, of course, undesirable that you should all have garbage bags on the streets that could easily be torn apart. It is up to municipalities to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u88	In addition, I am hoping for some direction from the Minister. With that separation, I think it was much more practical the way it was. That led to less litter around those dumpsters. In large cities such as Enschede and Hengelo and in the entire region of Twente you see the same problem every time. Municipalities have actually made it this way to make their budgets final. It cannot be the intention that waste should be used to make budgets tight and to increase those rates. If we want to recycle so badly and if we want people to separate the waste so badly, make it easy. Isn't it a good idea for the Minister to take the lead and say, "Let's just get divorced now?" We saw that at Twence's in Hengelo. They say: we are happy to separate; we want to regulate it and we can get energy from the waste streams that cannot be recycled. Can't the Minister take a directing role in that, in order to set it up in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u89	No, I don't think that's wise, because municipalities are different. For one municipality, separation is a good solution and for the other municipality, separation is a good solution. However, I do not think that Mr Van Aalst's problem is so much a question of pre- or post- divorce. This has to do with the question: if underground containers are used, is there sufficient capacity? That is independent of the demand for capacity in those containers. In my municipality, for example, they choose one container for glass, one container for paper and one container for bio. But you can also say that everything is allowed in all those containers. That is independent of whether there is sufficient capacity. Of course, the municipality has to take care of that. Mrs Kröger asked about the improvement of household waste. I have already replied to that question with regard to Mr Schonis. Then there was the question about coffee cups. Yeah, that wasn't the point, of course, and that's what everybody's upset about. As a government, we would like to set an example. At the moment, we are trying to figure out how that could have happened. It is difficult for me to judge whether the cups in the House of Representatives were part of this, but that is why I have been looking at the chairman and his support for a very long time. The President may be able to provide further information on this matter. My colleague from EZK will come back to this point by answering the questions raised in the Chamber, which is what the investigation is currently drawing on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u90	We have, of course, adopted a number of motions here. It's great that we've all been doing a great job. We have also had all these separate containers placed at the stations, but I have been told that all this is industrial waste and that all that goes together in the incinerator. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u91	NS is indeed doing a test at the moment, but this actually does touch a bit on the question put by Mrs Kröger. If it is considered to be industrial waste, it is subject to different requirements. I'm still in conversation with NS and ProRail about the results of the trial and what the sequel is. When people are in a hurry to get to the train, they think first of all "I'm gonna catch the train?" Instead of, "Where do I throw away my cup?" If it is industrial waste, this means, in view of the high requirements, that it is more difficult to meet the quality requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u92	So all those motions that were passed here, that was all symbolic politics. It is perhaps good to know for all those left-wing parties who have supported and submitted it, that it has made a total zero contribution and that everything has just gone to the incinerator. The only advantage that it may have had is that it has provided some homes or companies with energy. Let us take that as a positive approach, but that was the only thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u93	I am glad that Mr Van Aalst is so positive, Mr President. There was another question about illegal waste dumping. What's the status of the source investigation? What can the Empire do? How can municipalities be supported? That was a question from Mr von Martels. The responsibility for recovering costs and conducting investigations lies with the competent authority. But I certainly intend to bring this up in the next board of directors. Then I would like to discuss with these parties the knowledge with which they may be supported. And then there is another question in the area of commitment within the limits of privacy law. Mrs Kröger had another question about recycled plastic. Can this be applied on a compulsory basis or on a voluntary basis? I have already said something about this in the run-up to it. We have European regulations. What we make mandatory must also be in line with what is happening in the internal market. We expect a new action plan from the European Commission for European regulation. I also expect a number of legislative proposals to emerge from this. In addition, we have indeed tried, with the European plastic pact, to make agreements, especially with those countries and those companies that say 'we really want to go further because we simply see the possibility of moving faster'. That is why they can only be voluntary, otherwise they must be compulsory for everyone. But they said, "We're going to use 20% less plastic. We're going to increase recycling capacity. We will ensure the use of recycled material in our products." It is precisely because all those parties in the chain are involved that we can make faster progress with each other. The fact that 15 countries are participating also means that you actually have a large part of the internal market, where governments and parties say: this is the direction we are going. Hopefully this will help the European Commission to show that it can and can be done more quickly, and to include the ambitions in the legislation, which, of course, will ultimately guarantee the countries that do not participate on a voluntary basis. The possibilities are there. The technology's here. The logistics flows have begun. This progress can also be exploited by the other countries, which are now somewhat opposed to: how fast can we go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u94	I understand the logic of working with a leading group on a voluntary basis and then see how quickly we get the rules going. One of the rules we already have is the essential requirements. In an earlier debate on the circular economy, we also exchanged the necessary information, namely the idea that you are already obliged to use as little material as possible as a producer. Then the Minister said: I am going to see if there can be more enforcement. I was wondering if under these laws and regulations, when we look at how we can reduce the amount of waste, she would not see a hook to get much more clearly on top of it, with those essential requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u95	We will look into whether the issue of these essential requirements still provides a basis, for example, for getting out of bullshit packaging. I will return to this in the letter in the run-up to the AO Circular economy. Mr Van Aalst had another point about waste and pre- or post-distinguishment. He had some points about diphtar in his input. By the way, we have seen very positive effects of this, but well, that is also different. Let us not bring the whole debate on diphtar into this legislative proposal, but in practice diphtar often leads to lower costs for citizens, depending on how the municipalities apply diphtar. The point of the waste police, I believe, was about the point of the bags next to the container. It is important that the municipality maintains this well, but also provides sufficient capacity. There was a slightly more specific question about separate waste. Even for glass, separation is possible where this does not affect the ability to recycle the waste and leads to the same quality recycling. That is what I want to say in reply to Mr Ziengs. What about research into the origin of waste? I actually said something about that earlier, so this one was in the wrong pile. GroenLinks asked if I was willing to review the LAP3 critically. The LAP3 focuses on careful risk analysis, but we always keep a close eye on whether it needs to be adjusted in the light of new knowledge. I'm already going to amend legislation to prevent ZZS from being reported in waste streams. The RIVM study of 3 February supports our approach in the LAP3. Mr President, I hope that I have answered Members' questions. But perhaps not all of Mrs Kröger's questions!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u96	No, unfortunately, or perhaps not unfortunately. There is an insane or at least very robust RIVM report on ZZS in the circular economy, a nice report. I hope that the Minister will do something more than just say that it supports the current LAP3. There are a lot of recommendations in it, so I really hope that she will just give it a solid cabinet response and actually adopt those recommendations and implement them in the LAP3.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u97	It is always a bit difficult for you to come up with a particular bill and other issues, which are quite in line with that, are being raised. Reference is made to a list of recommendations. It is just as difficult for me to immediately remember all these things, but the knowledge of RIVM is always an important source for me to base my actions on. In the letter to the AO Circular economy, let's give some more details about what we're going to do with this. But I'm going to amend legislation to prevent ZZS from being reported in waste streams. Further recommendations are also qualified here as a support for the approach we have, but I understand that Mrs Kröger would like a little more text and explanation. We shall return to that in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u98	Very nice. That's gonna be a big letter and a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u99	Sure. It is always a nice debate about circular economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u100	Sure. I understood the Minister was done answering her question. I have one more question, about the possibilities of a minimum requirement for potential ZZS in waste streams. I ask this because we see in practice that these very worrying substances continue to go out through waste streams if you have a minimum requirement, for example for emissions to air or to water. We have much less control over that. By keeping producers focused on minimising ZZS in waste streams, you could increase the possibilities for the circular economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u101	Yes. I understand why Mrs Kröger is asking the question, but there is a certain layering in the answer. The minimum requirement for ZZS initially means that you are trying to phase out all very worrying substances. If you phase it out, use it less, that means that they end up less in waste streams. This minimum requirement applies to all emissions of ZZS. Therefore, no emissions from ZZS to the environment and if this is not possible, for example by means of appropriate techniques or safe alternatives as little as possible emission to air or water. Initially, you try to reduce all emissions to the air as much as possible and also to reduce emissions to water as much as possible. We can do that to a certain extent. It's possible that by filtering the air, you're actually picking up that ZZS. They're not gonna put that in the air. That's exactly what we want. For example, if there is no alternative not to use them in the production process, these ZZS will be taken in. If you have a specific minimum requirement on the waste stream, where are you going with that captured ZZS? You want generic as little as possible ZZS, but from what you have you want it to be carefully processed. So you might want to focus more on the highest possible insulation of ZZS, so that you keep that waste stream as separate as possible and have as little mixture of ZZS with other waste streams as possible. But that's different from a generic minimalisation obligation on ZZS in waste streams per se. You don't want them to go to the air, and you don't want them to go to the water. So if you capture them, you'd like them to be carefully processed, and that would be contrary to a generic minimumisation requirement in waste streams. What Mrs Kröger wants, I think, is why I found the example of that fire extinguisher so beautiful that you keep it as separate as possible so that they pollute waste streams as little as possible. That's how I want to look at it. There's a second thing that's important in that. If it's still in there, it has to be transparent that it's in there. Then the treatment of this stream can be done in line with the fact that it contains ZZS, so that eventually they do not end up in the environment again via the waste stream. So there is a certain layering in that approach. That is actually what I would like to draw Mrs Kröger's attention to. In the preparatory discussions I have with fellow governments on the tightening up of legislation, I will also raise the question of the situations in which they see an interest in a minimum requirement for ZZS in waste streams, but, as I explained, in that layering. I'll inform the Chamber about that. That's why I liked the fire extinguishers. If you separate the one you know is pfas-containing foam, you avoid contamination of the rest of the current. You'll still have a waste stream of fire extinguishers. I'd rather not have them set fire to every fire station apart. You'd like them to be processed separately. That's actually what you'd want. This is different from a general obligation to minimize waste streams. If we understand each other properly in this way, I will also report to the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u102	I think we understand each other very well. Perhaps we are the only two people in this whole Chamber who fully understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u103	Don't underestimate colleagues, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u104	No. Excuse me, colleagues. Because we're going pretty deep into the details. How I hear the Minister's explanation doesn't exclude one from the other. I think I agree with the Minister that you want to create a specific stream. It is important for producers that when two buttons are turned, namely emissions to air and emissions to water, on that third stream, namely the waste that just leaves the gate, you also set an obligation to minimize, because it makes the whole production process more efficient. That's exactly where I think it is, especially when you say that waste is raw material again. We need to see it when that something leaves the gate that's just a raw material and in it you want to minimize ZZS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u105	Mrs Kröger says 'I set up a separate obligation to minimize what goes out of the gate' and for me this is already covered by the general obligation to minimize. You have to try to use as little of that product as possible and if you do not release it to air and water, so through the general obligation to minimize it, that also works in the waste. But if you are going to set up a separate obligation to minimise waste, it must no longer be carried out by air, it must no longer be carried out by water, nor must it be disposed of by waste. So it stays on the premises. You don't want to. You want it processed carefully. I therefore believe that we are working in the same direction, but I believe that this part is covered by the general requirement of minimumisation at the front, i.e. throughout the production process. Where this type of ZZS is covered by this requirement, we must ensure that we look at as much as possible where possible isolation of these substances from wider waste streams is possible. Otherwise, at least there must be transparency, so that you know how to deal with those waste streams, so that you don't spread the mess further in the circular economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u106	I would like to ask the Minister the following. She's gonna do that reconnaissance, and that's what she's gonna come back to in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u107	Yeah, there's gonna be a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u108	Does she want to make a very clear statement... For me, the problem lies in the general obligation to minimize the use of the substance at all. At the moment there is no supervision, no enforcement and no authorisation for that. We have a permit for emissions and discharges. We don't have a permit in that sense on production. You can handle a minimize on waste streams. You'll be able to hold on to that again. That's where the crux is for me. I think the Minister understands my crux...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u109	I do see where the point is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u110	...and we get a very nice letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u111	We're gonna try and make a beautiful letter out of it. Then we'll go to the AO Circular economy and see how far we are with that. I understand Mrs Kröger's point. She would like to have an attachment point in order to be able to assess whether the crane is turned off sufficiently. The question is whether this can already be done at the front, where you can quantify this very clearly in the case of the licences for discharges. We're gonna take a look at it. We've understood each other, Mr. Chairman. That's a nice thing about a debate like that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u112	Yes. And at least I agree with you both that this was extremely technical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u113	Well, we thought it wasn't so bad. Mr. Chairman. I hope that will bring me to the end of the reply to the questions put by Members in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u114	This brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. We shall proceed immediately to the second term of the Chamber. In doing so, Members of Parliament have the opportunity to table motions if they so wish, but they do not have to do so. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u115	Mr. Chairman. I'll take another sip of water for a long speech. I've got some time left, I see. But I'll be brief. At least I will not ask the Minister what she has just explained. I'll wait for the letter, too. I've been looking at colleague von Martels. We had about the same look and thought: that will be a very thick letter. Maybe it'll be a book or a magazine. It was a very technical argument. I'm sure we all got it. I'm sure I'll have a dream of it tonight. About end-of-life status, as in fact described in the document. In any case, the new solution seems to be better than the old power, with which the Minister himself could declare it. But it also has our approval because it remains workable in any case. I assume that I will soon get the appreciation of the Ziegngs amendment that has gone around. I come to the power of the municipalities to choose for separation or separation. That was a clear argument. It wasn't quite clear to me whether we could go to seven, eight or nine containers for a rural municipality, in which I live, for example. Perhaps the Minister could shed some light on this. I got the impression that it was really the choice, even in municipalities, to have to deliver it in all those different portions. I believe that this question was also raised by Mr Van Aalst. I did not have the impression that we really had a very clear answer to that. I also have one additional question in this debate. I have also put it before in a general discussion. Why doesn't the Minister take the quality of the separate waste stream as a starting point?In particular, think of PMD........................................................................................................................................................................................... I can see Mrs Kröger nodding too. We have talked about this before in the debate. That seems to me to be a fairer system to see how you can really measure that quality in this case and what the amount of it takes. That's it, Mr. Chairman. That's all I want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u116	Thank you, Mr. Seengs. I give the floor to Mr Schonis of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u117	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for replying. Glad to hear that environmental services will be supported on this rather specific theme. That will come back to the VTH tasks later. On the amendment, I'm going to breed for a while. I'm sure there's a deadline for that. Anyway, I had to fill in today, so I haven't gotten around to writing that. There is one more point. That is very specific about the labelling of waste streams. What's it supposed to be? We talked about those blisters. I just gave you the example of that tea bag. I think it is useful that we should see if we can add that to the AMvB which the Minister still has to draw up. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it may be unclear in which waste bin products and packaging should be disposed of;]] [[noting that the mess of texts and logos on the origin or compostability of the material increases the uncertainty;]] [[Whereas waste separation errors may lead to pollution of waste streams;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the AMvB still to be drawn up the requirement that producers indicate on products or packaging the waste stream to which the material belongs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35267-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u119	And amendments can indeed be tabled later. Mr. Van Aalst from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll keep it a little less splashy than in the first term. I'll be brief, too. I'm not gonna agree with the Minister today anyway. We have had a brief debate on the diphthar. I hope that the Minister will take more direction there, especially because municipalities use them as a milk cow and I would prefer that the inhabitants should be able to choose what they want: do they want to separate or separate and not leave it to the municipal councils, with the mishmash that arises and all the consequences? I mean, when I look in the Twente region, I see mountains of garbage around the underground containers every weekend. Often this is not about capacity but simply about a container that does not function, that is broken, the electronics system does not work, or with garbage bags that do not fit in. Then you'll come back to the situation where people throw it next to it. They don't have to, but they still have to get rid of their garbage. Furthermore, this is not the first debate we have had on waste, diffuser, circular economy, separation and who is responsible for what. It will not be the last debate either. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u121	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u122	Mr. Chairman. A couple of motions. The first concerns the obligation to minimise substances in the circular economy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in a circular economy, waste streams are becoming increasingly secondary raw materials;]] [[Whereas the reduction of substances of very high concern is part of the European targets for a non-toxic circular economy;]] [[noting that there is a minimum requirement for the emission of substances of high concern to air and water;]] [[noting that substances of very high concern may enter the environment at any time;]] [[calls on the Government to identify how a minimum requirement for substances of high concern can be developed for waste streams and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35267-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u123	A motion on end-of-life status and on when a ministerial regulation determines which substances and products are waste and which are not. The Minister has just promised to inform the Chamber about this, for example in the case of an update of the LAP or something like that. I would like to go a step further, to have a system for that and to be able to ask another question or to have an opinion on it as a Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for the implementation of the present legislative proposal, a ministerial regulation will determine which substances or products are or are not waste and thus what their future will be;]] [[Whereas the Chamber is happy to remain informed and involved in this dossier;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber at regular intervals (e.g. twice a year) by means of a letter and a list of new substances and to allow questions to be asked if they so wish,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35267-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u125	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. The last speaker is Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the clear answer. Sad though, those 85 million coffee cups! I am glad that the Minister also regrets that this action has not been successful. I'm actually curious about the sequel. I'll be hearing that soon. Then there's the campaign against stray garbage. I remember the Minister's announcement in previous debates that there would be a campaign against litter. I have already done two hand-outs to the Minister before this debate to see how such a campaign can be completed. We were thinking about the AUB campaign, waste from the roadside, or the ASO campaign, waste bothers us. Those are two suggestions. I hope the Minister can do something with that. Otherwise there will be other creative minds that come forward with even more beautiful thoughts. Then I have another question to the Minister about deposit money on cans. What is the Minister's view that it is likely that this will actually start or be introduced in 2022? Finally, I have another motion. It is entirely in line with what I put forward in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u127	I am going to give you the opportunity to do so after Mrs Kröger's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u128	I hear Mr von Martels asking the Minister what the chance is. I think we should look at ourselves in particular. Do we say as a room: yes, we go for deposit on cans? I think we're very clear about that. I hope that Mr von Martels is equally clear about that. Then it's not a question to the Minister. It's an assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u129	I'm just assuming it's all going to happen, but I'm still assuming it's going to happen in 2022. This means that initiatives must soon be shown to make preparations to make this possible. Hence my question to see what is going on with these preparations. Are we gonna get that term? Because I think the Chamber has made a clear statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u130	Isn't Mr von Martels' concern that there may be a delay if we are now preparing things for deposit on plastic bottles and not taking cans into account immediately? I think I share that concern. Do we have to say, in all the preparations, 'take a look'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u131	You look at it as if I have a different opinion, but my question is about that. That is why I am looking forward to the Minister's reply. And now for the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u132	Here he comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u133	Here he comes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the costs of illegal dumping of the various types of waste are not kept up to date;]] [[Whereas municipalities, provinces and owners of natural sites often face significant costs in the event of dumping;]] [[calls on the Government to assist municipalities, provinces and owners of nature reserves in recovering costs by carrying out research into the origin of the waste and providing data necessary to recover the costs from those responsible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35267-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u134	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first motion is by Mr Schonis and Mr von Martels. As the motion is now drafted, it becomes difficult, because this cannot be done in the AMvB. Such rules should be laid down at EU level. However, I am willing to work with the European Commission and within the framework of the European Plastic Pact at EU level. But I must therefore discourage the motion as it stands, because it refers to the AMvB, in which it cannot be anchored at the moment. What we do do is see what we can clarify, in the sense that there is some uniformization of what comes into the PMD bin. The conversations are about that. We are certainly doing that, but as you have now formulated the motion, I must advise against it because it states that it should be included in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u136	Yes, I understand that a number of things need to be settled at European level, but if you wanted to settle this, would that eventually have to land in that AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u137	Yes, but requiring a logo on a product is something you can only agree on in a European context. So it becomes complicated to impose that route. I did say to Mr von Martels that, of course, we are going to see how we can make it easier for everyone. In itself, a logo would be very nice, but that is something you have to arrange via that European route. So I can't do that in advance in that AMvB. Once we have settled the European issue and then it falls down in the AMvB, that is something else, but that is not how I read the motion. If the motion asks me to get to work on this at European level, I am therefore happy to be prepared to do so, but the direct link to the AMvB is a little too short. If the call is for me to be involved in this at European level, I am happy to be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u138	In my view, I should now be holding the motion and considering changing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u139	But you could also simply change the motion. It will then be amended and the Minister will be able to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u140	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. If it is an appeal to me to commit myself to this in a European context, then the motion would be given a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u141	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u142	But it is always good to see the amended motion before I make that final statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u143	In this form, the motion is dissuaded. If you amend the motion in this sense, she will be given a Chamber of Appeal, but the Minister would like to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u144	Mrs Kröger's motion on item No. 10 is actually about the whole discussion we just had. I have also indicated that we will come back to that. So I've actually already made that commitment. I would therefore ask Mrs Kröger to hold on to this motion for a resolution. When you see the effect, you can judge whether you think that there is sufficient justice or that we have missed something. Well, then we didn't have the whole discussion just for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u145	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u146	I believe that the Minister's commitment is that I should be informed of this before the summer or even before the AO Circular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u147	That letter about the AO Circular we'll be trying to get to you in about a month. So I don't know if it's gonna work out completely. I don't even know if that would work out in detail before the summer. That is therefore an additional reason for holding this motion, but I would like to start this discussion. If I can, I'll say something about that in the letter for the AO Circular. If that is not possible, I will at least take up a procedural proposal in which I indicate when we think we can do so. But this is an additional reason to say: hold this motion for a moment. Because it was already a technical discussion, but it may also take some time to figure out what we can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u148	Okay, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u150	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (35267, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u151	The motion in part No. 11 requests that the Chamber be regularly informed of such a list of new substances. I have indicated that we are thinking of the context of the LAP. Mrs Kröger wanted to table the motion, because it may not necessarily have to be the LAP. We will let you know how we are going to do that, but I do support the essence of the motion: the Chamber is regularly informed of what is happening. How exactly we're gonna do that, we're gonna see that at some point. But then this motion can get judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u152	The motion in part No. 11 has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u153	And the Chamber can always ask questions about all the letters we send. So that is always a possibility at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u154	Thanks for the judgment. The reason why I tabled the motion is, in particular, that the LAP is being revised once every six years in my opinion. This happens a lot more often. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u155	Yeah, exactly. No, for a moment, I thought you wanted to be very specific twice a year, when I thought, "We need to find a logical moment." That's why I was thinking about the LAP. But you're asking for "sometime soon." Well, I'm sure we'll find a logical regularity in that, which keeps the middle between once in the six years that would be a little little bit little... and every other week a letter. So we're going to find a logical regularity in that. Mr Ziengs asked whether we should no longer look at the quality of separate waste and not just at the quantity. Sure, it's en-and. Quality and quantity are always important, and there can also be a moment when you think: are we going to do everything we can to increase quantity or are we going to find a way to increase quality? We will discuss this further, but good quality is, of course, a prerequisite for high-quality recycling. So this absolutely has my full attention. Mr Ziengs also asked about the number of containers. Municipalities are free to determine which collection method suits them best. We have given that freedom to congregations. That means we're not going to force them all into source separation or separation. They have their own freedom in that. That also means that they can see a little bit of what is a logical way of collecting. I have every confidence that municipalities do so in a somewhat logical way. Mr. Chairman. Mr von Martels asks me in his motion for a resolution on item No. 12 to assist the owners of nature reserves in the recovery of costs, in fact mainly by helping them do research into the origin of the waste. I said something about this when Mr von Martels brought it in. Of course, we have to stay within all the rules of privacy law and the like, but I am willing to discuss with the BOP what knowledge can help. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I can give her judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u156	I see a nod in agreement, so the motion in part no. 12 has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u157	Then Mr. von Martels asked about deposit money on cans. This is a continuation of this debate, although it was not entirely the subject of this legal process. There are two room motions about tin, asking for a similar trail as for plastic bottles. If the targets are not met from the voluntary rail system, we need to ensure that deposit money can be introduced on-the-spot, and that legislation is in any case prepared to do so. It has also been said that a cost study is being carried out, which can then be involved. So we're just carrying out the motions that are in the Chamber about this. Then, President, Mr Ziengs tabled an amendment asking for a veil on the collection of AMvB separately. On the basis of the existing procedures and systems in both the Environmental Management Act and the future Environmental Act, there is no prejudice to the one-to-one implementation in an AMvB. If things are added, such a veil is, by the way, the practice. So if something other than a one-on-one implementation is done, a front is done, but only a one-on-one implementation is not, because there are simply no policy choices because of the one-on-one implementation if you really do it alone. But I was just looking for what Mr. Ziengs was looking for. He wants to be well informed, of course, in order to be able to assess whether it is a one-on-one implementation. I would therefore like to propose to Mr Ziengs the following. I'll send you a comprehensive letter on the contents of the AMvB. I could even add texts to that, so that you can also assess them. Then we could still stay within the deadlines of the implementation process. I can imagine that Mr Ziengs would like to take the test as to whether it is a one-on-one implementation. And since we intend to keep to that neatly, I'd be happy to do so. After all, if we are going to do a veil, we can only start that veil after all this has been completed and so we go into the delay in relation to the implementation. That is why that distinction has been made between the one-on-one implementation AMvBs and the AMvBs with more space in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u158	I understand that the Minister actually points out that it puts her in a time-clamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u159	Yes. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u160	That's actually the problem. I find that rather difficult, because I have had quite the thought to put it in a motion, but an amendment is always a bit stronger, and also indicates how it should be implemented. I understand the Minister's explanation, too. I need some time to think about it, because it is a well thought-out amendment, but I do not want to make it impossible for the Minister either. I understand from the answer that this might make it impossible to reach that timetable. I do not intend to set up a blockade there, so I am still considering it and I will see how we deal with it. I've got the whole weekend for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u161	Yes, it is, of course, only determined at the time of the vote. I would prefer that amendment not to be adopted; let me put it this way. We can make sure that we inform the Chamber in a different way about what is going to happen in that AMvB, so that Mr Ziengs also has the information he is looking for and what he is trying to ensure through this amendment. I hope that we may be able to do this in a different way. I leave it to Mr Ziengs to think about it. It would be preferable if this amendment were not adopted in relation to the implementation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u162	I am trying to come to a conclusion in the terminology we use here. The House is ultimately about whether it adopts an amendment or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u163	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u164	But the cabinet is deceiving the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u165	Yeah, I'm not suggesting it for that reason, but I get the point of the information. I would be happy to elaborate on this in a different way, by sending a letter on the content of the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u166	I would like to ask for an explanation, because I have looked at it. To what extent is that time clamp actually present? What would that mean for the timetable that's in place right now? Maybe the Minister can just point out that this does not need to be done immediately; this may also be done by letter: why there is a limitation in time. The Minister's question was exactly what I'm looking for. The point is that in all these AMvBs in the original proposal, the Minister is given such power that she can do it fairly quickly, without it being in the Chamber. That's my question. Apart from those decisions that need to be implemented one-on-one, because I understand that, the Minister still gets quite a great deal of freedom in the original proposal. That is why I have included it in an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u167	Yes, but it is important: if something other than one-on-one implementation is done, there will also be a veil. Then Parliament also has a decision to make. It is important that this consideration can be made in front of a veil. When it comes to one-on-one implementation, there is actually no room for consideration, because we are obliged to translate this European regulation into Dutch legislation in this way. That is why it has been said that otherwise there will be delays and you will have to wait. The AMvB cannot then go to the Council of State and that means a delay, which would allow you to walk out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u168	One more clarifying question, so I can understand it as well. If the one-on-one can indeed be implemented, through such an AMvB, then also with a front, even if it is a light front,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u169	A veil is always bound by fixed deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u170	That's what the deadline is for? If there is a letter that it is one-on-one implementation, then the deadline is not over? If the Chamber agrees to that, will that deadline go over? Is there that time clamp in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u171	I suggest that I give Mr Ziengs a little more detailed explanation. He's looking for it whether or not it's a clamp and how we make sure the Chamber is well informed. I understand that very well. I also think it is important to be clear about this, so let me explain to Mr Ziegs exactly what is happening with the lower regulation that is being prepared. There is a general system and you would deviate from that. I also understand very well that Mr Ziengs wishes to weigh that carefully, given the information position of the Chamber. Once again, I am always prepared to ensure it in good time. Then Mr Ziegs can decide whether he wants to put his amendment to the vote, yes or no. Mr President, I hope that I have answered Members' questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u172	After the time clamp, another pressing question on my part about the campaign against litter. When does it start?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u173	That too is a continuation of this debate. I believe that we have debated this before in many ways. It is also likely that we will take another step in this policy development in the coming AO Circular economy. I will certainly inform you about this as soon as I have further information. But I would like to thank Mr von Martels for the beautiful board. We do not want litter on the verge. By the way, everyone has a role to play in this, because it does not come naturally. We're here together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u174	This brings us to the end of the legal treatment of the Implementation Act amending the EU Waste Framework Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-32.u175	I would like to thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber, as well as her officials. The votes on the motions tabled and the amendment will be taken next Tuesday. You may congratulate the Minister without giving a hand on this legal treatment.
