ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA for her question on transverse lesions by nitrous oxide. The question is addressed to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Who would have thought shutting down your brain from oxygen would be a fad? More than a year ago, the CDA advocated banning party drug nitrous oxide, because nitrous oxide is not meant to seal your brain, but to spray whipped cream. And yet it's in the entertainment scene. And yet it's low-threshold for young people. We're seeing an increase in traffic accidents and nuisances, which isn't the least of your health damage. Last week, RTL reported at least 64 transverse lesions by nitrous oxide. These are young people who are 22 years old on average. The actual number is much higher, because only 42 out of 78 registered hospitals have been interviewed. In addition, there are rehabilitation centres. And there is not only transverse lesions by nitrous oxide; there is also psychosis and epilepsy. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for the fact that the proposal to impose a ban is now for consultation. How soon can that ban enter into force? With all this, with all these arguments, you would also expect that there is sufficient support for this here in the Chamber. Does the Secretary of State feel sufficient support here in the Chamber? Can this be discussed right after the summer? Mr. Chairman. I told you, kids see nitrous oxide as an innocent thing. They look at it indifferently. Neurologists see that complaints are often deliberately ignored and that young people go to the GP much too late and therefore arrive at the hospital too late. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that young people still have a far too rosy picture of nitrous oxide? How do we stop them from getting started? Second. We know it's a craze. If young people use and have complaints, how does the Secretary of State ensure that they report to the GP in time with these complaints, so that they are prevented from getting a spinal injury?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The subject raised by Mrs Kuik very much appeals to me. Not for nothing have I taken the initiative, together with the Minister of JenV, to put nitrous oxide as a recreational substance on list II of the Opium Act. That needs to be arranged through an AMvB. We are also doing this on the assumption that we are supported in this by the Coordination Point Assessment and Monitoring of New Drugs, the CAM, which has given us the advice to reduce availability. Apart from that, I have also made work visits at the UMC, for example, where neurologists have informed me about the harmful effects, including indeed transverse lesions. We have therefore taken that up and said that we are going to ban recreational use. How do we do that? By means of an AMvB by which nitrous oxide is placed on list II of the Opium Act. We need to take a few steps for that. We first consulted the industry, namely the producers and the actual users, such as the catering industry, the car industry and those who use it for medical purposes, on how to ensure that this remains possible. That still had some feet in the earth. I think we've been acting on that carefully. This can also be derived from the explanatory notes on the AMvB. The recreational use we want to reduce significantly. That must be in the text, which is now before us for consultation. It runs until July 10th. In this respect, it is a good time to bring this to the fore. I hope that this intention will be responded to from the point of view of society. I do indeed hope that there will be sufficient support for this, including in Parliament. Mrs Kuik asked how broad the support will be in Parliament. That's gotta prove it. If you have any very sensible proposals, I think they're gonna come through. But that must be demonstrated by the debate. When can the debate take place, Mrs Kuik asks. After the summer. The consultation is now in progress. We're gonna process that. We want it completed as soon as possible after the summer break. It will be discussed in the Council of Ministers in the course of September, early October. In that case it is in front of Parliament, both in the Second and in the First Chamber. If the Parliament agrees to it after the preliminaries, it still has to go to the Council of State and to Europe for notification. The steps I just outlined, I think, last until Christmas break. Then the next step will be taken as soon as possible. Or the parliament should say right away that it is good, because then we can go straight ahead. But for the notification and advice of the Council of State, we have to count for a few months. I think it could come into force for the first half of next year. But then it's in the law. Local authorities can already reduce all kinds of things by means of a regulation. But the very same municipalities tell us that they cannot tackle everything. This applies, for example, when there is a clear use of nitrous oxide in a car that caused an accident. If there's any patterns in that car, the cops won't be able to tell. That's a point of interest. Municipalities have approached me quite massively with the question of whether we can act on that. That's the process. Then there is information to young people and the perception of risks. Mrs Kuik rightly says that young people do not see the danger. I think it is. The risks are greatly underestimated. That makes sense, because you can get the stuff so to speak on any corner of the street. That doesn't relate to the idea that something is risky, so the risk perception is not right. We'll have the educational material adjusted. The Trimbos are already working hard on that. The folder, the flyer that goes to users, is modified. It's all being updated. Meanwhile, we also have webinars, where we inform municipalities and other relevant parties in reducing nitrous oxide use. There's a lot of interest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thanks for the answer. I am afraid of how much longer this will last and that this will not really work until the beginning of next year. If Parliament can bring speed to that, I am glad to hear it, because I will certainly suggest it. Young people often don't go to the family doctor in time. There's shame among young people. They don't want to talk about it. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he can promise that, in the interim period from now until the ban, there will be an additional information campaign: oxygen in the head of young people. I also wonder to what extent enforcement is now possible for municipalities. Now there are shops in entertainment areas where you can get balloons. If that's still the image of the entertainment area, we're just not doing very well. So we need to be able to take steps to protect our young people from road accidents and health damage even now, especially when we see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	Three questions I've heard. I can go into that very briefly. As for the pace: if it's up to me, it was in the Official Journal yesterday. I'm doing the best I can to do it as soon as possible. Let's all put a lot of effort on that. That's one. Two. Young people must already know about the risks, because these new insights exist. Mrs Kuik asks if I can start a separate campaign for this. I want to take that question seriously, but I will not admit it now. Corona has also stopped a number of campaigns that we already had in the pipeline. So it has to fit into the whole. I think it makes sense that there should be a campaign. When it starts exactly, I am not going to give my word now because there are a lot of other campaigns waiting in line. I'm taking that question seriously. And the last question was? I didn't write it down; that's my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	That question was about the enforcement by the municipalities. Can they take on the nitrous gascowboys?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	What can be done now, municipalities also do by means of a local regulation. For example, they indicate that no nitrous oxide should be sold in an area. That's what's happening. But there are always leaks in the system, for example, what I just mentioned: if there is obvious use of nitrous oxide in a car that swings, then it is very difficult to show a causal link. Soon the fact alone that there are nitrous gas patterns next to the driver will be sufficient reason to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you for having the Secretary of State look at extra commitment to information. I would ask the Secretary of State to draw the attention of mayors to this, so that they can intervene now. So there should not be a nightlife scene with nitrous gas shops, because it is a disaster for young people that this is seen as normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	What the House of Representatives can ask me anyway is to draw the attention of municipalities to the risks that exist on the basis of the CAM report. I'd certainly like to do that. We also have webinars in which municipalities join. I will therefore draw the attention of the municipalities to the possibilities and the risks through whatever channels we can use for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	64 transverse lesions by the use of nitrous oxide! There are a lot of them. It'll be your kid, friend, girlfriend or someone in your teenage group! I really cannot accept the fact that I hear the Secretary of State here saying that a major campaign is not possible right now, because he still has enough in the pipeline. I would ask the Secretary of State to take that back and immediately launch a major national campaign. Because he may be in the process of lawmaking or I don't know what, but it's about now getting between young people's ears that it's not an option to ruin your life by doing something of his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	I understand very well what Mrs. Agema is asking. I also conclude from her words that the PVV Group is going to support the ban, at least that it is going in that direction. The call is to intervene as soon as possible, already, with campaigns. In reply to Mrs Kuik's questions, I indicated what had been considered, because we also have campaigns against smoking, for example. I do not want to say that one suffering is worse than the other, but as a result of smoking 20,000 people die every year. So we just have to weigh it up. It's really not easy, like: we're not going to do that. We're gonna have to weigh it up. I don't think I can promise that, while in the Ministry, the campaigns to take priority are: who can go up first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	We had a debate last week on the ggz. The essence of that debate was that the committee felt that the Secretary of State should take much more direction in this matter. We've just adopted a petition from GPs and 7,000 health care professionals asking for more national direction. That's what the ESC even says, and so is this Chamber. We therefore simply want more direction from the Secretary of State in this regard too. He needs to grab this and not let it go and leave it to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	We have started legislation. It should be there as soon as possible. I told you, if it were up to me, it'd be in the Official Journal yesterday. I don't know how to control that any more. I don't know if the question is broad about ggz or nitrous oxide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	It's about nitrous oxide, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	When it comes to nitrous oxide, I'm also accused of interfering. But I hear from Mrs Sazias that she does not think so. I'm acting as fast as I can. That ban should be introduced into the Official Journal as soon as possible by placing it on list II of the Opium Act. In addition, we make every effort to reduce nitrous oxide, including by informing people about the risks of this harmful substance through webinars and targeted information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yes, Mrs Hermans... on behalf of the VVD. I haven't seen you in a while, which is why I thought, "Good to see you again."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'm still here. Mrs Agema actually said very strikingly that nitrous gas, such a balloon, is not innocent. It has potentially major consequences. So that things have to happen, the VVD Group shares. But it is about the coherence of things and also about the relationship. The Secretary of State said something about it in the AMvB. We have a lot of entrepreneurs who just need nitrous gas to make their whipped cream cake, to repair cars in the garage and you name it all; also the caterer. The balance between actual and improper use: I think that will be the most important consideration in the future. That is why the consultation is very important. Mrs Agema is right when she says: we can now write in a law or an AMvB that something is no longer allowed, but that does not mean that the young people are yet aware of the fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	I come to my question, Mr President. They are not yet aware of the fact that it is dangerous and irresponsible to use a balloon on.I do not know if you can say so............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is why the information campaign is so important. So I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mrs. Hermans, you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	My question to the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u24	You can't do this! Then we really need to change Question Time. You're talking for over a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u25	You're absolutely right. I'm asking my question now. This information campaign, when will it start?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u26	That was a question from Mrs Agema, from Mrs Kuik and now from Mrs Hermans. I will inform the Chamber about this, but I also do not like to promise the Chamber that I will start a campaign next week when there are 15 other campaigns in the starting blocks, which those who are on the buttons say: that must be done quickly. I would therefore like to inform the House when it can do so in a brief note................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is very difficult to indicate a difference in weight between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u27	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u28	It's all about the health of Dutch people, who are equally nice to us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you. This brings us to the end of Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll vote.
