ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u1	Then we continue with the report of the general consultation Education and corona p.o. and vo. I would like to welcome the Minister. I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema. He speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u2	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the general consultation on education and corona, I have two motions. I shall table the first motion because we believe the Minister has said that after the holiday the education inspection will start again with or without penalties for parents of children who do not go to school. As far as we're concerned, it needs to be tighter. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[On 22 April 2020, the Chamber noted that the Wilders/Asscher motion (25295, No. 279) where parents who do not want to let their children go to school after the May holidays are not fined for this;]] [[having noted that, on the basis of the opinion of the OMT, the Cabinet concluded that schools could be fully open after the holiday;]] [[believes that it is important that children return to full school within the standards in force;]] [[calls on the Government to return to its legal capacity immediately after the summer holidays to prevent unauthorized failure of pupils,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u3	An enlightening question, Mr. Chairman. What legal possibilities doesn't an inspector have after the summer break, which he would have with this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u4	We have decided by motion that we should put the education inspection on hold, as it were. We have not yet withdrawn that decision, so at the moment the education inspectors do not have to intervene even after the summer holidays. I think it's wise to do that. That is why I think it would be wise to withdraw, as it were, the Wilders/Asscher motion by means of a motion, because there is all sorts of new information available on possible infections in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u5	Apart from the fact that, in my opinion, we do not lay down legal powers per motion, we can say to the Minister: well, take it easy. But we had an explicit exchange of views in the debate... I think it was even the Minister who asked for it. He said, guys, can I have my inspection again after the summer break, because there's been a motion passed? Then people said, "You can do that again." Now I'm not so sure what this motion is extra. I'm trying to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u6	I also think I gave an introduction, in which I said that in our view the Minister said in the debate that he was going to'start up' after the summer holidays. I think that after the summer holidays we should simply start with the introduction of the education inspection. There's a difference of opinion there. At the next motion too, there will simply be a slight difference of opinion on how we think it should be done. Mr President, may I proceed with my next motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u7	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u8	Mr. Chairman. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, on the basis of the opinion of the OMT, the Cabinet concluded that schools could be fully open after the holiday;]] [[noting that e-mails are already being sent by especially for-schools that they open very limited even after the summer holidays, for example by giving only a mentoring and/or movement education;]] [[whereas public communication talks about the fact that schools should be "open again" rather than "open again" after the summer holidays;]] [[consider that children benefit from good education provided by physical presence in the classroom and direct instruction and that all schools should therefore simply provide physical education;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all schools in primary, secondary and special education after the summer holidays, within the rules in force, are fully open again, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the debate, we discussed, among other things, the specific registration of corona cases that can be traced back to education. Why? Firstly, because we believe that parents and teachers are entitled to that information. Secondly, because we want to prevent people from creating all kinds of Excel files themselves with information that they can hardly control reliability. That is why we think it is a good idea to make this information clearly available to those who are interested. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there may be concern and uncertainty about a possible increase in the number of corona infections associated with the re-opening of schools;]] [[noting that there is no specific registration of corona contamination that can be traced back to re-opened schools;]] [[considers that this registration is necessary in order to provide people with reliable information;]] [[calls on the Government to register and make publicly available the number of corona contaminations that can be traced back to contamination at a specific school,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u10	Mr. Chairman. By way of illustration, a journalist who wanted to make a story for the AD about corona contamination in schools, literally had to call off all the GGDs. Then he got the answer that they were too busy to find out for a journalist. That information is therefore not available at the moment. We think it would be wise to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u11	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs van den Hul on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much has happened since AO Education and corona p.o./vo. In the meantime, thanks to Elijah's hard work, which we already thought about during the AO, there is a flag moment for final exam candidates in the vso. I am giving the Minister a thumbs-up because he has responded to this. Mr. Chairman. We also have more clarity about the opening up of school buildings. I say'school buildings', because, of course, everyone who has been working for months to make sure that the schools could just stay open, physically but above all online. At the same time, we know that "open" does not mean "open." Mr Heerema was just talking about it. This is also reflected in reports about the sometimes large differences in how schools deal with this. My question to the Minister is: how do we ensure that these differences do not lead to greater inequality of opportunity? And how does the Minister see his role in this? Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow, we will be discussing further, inter alia, education deficits and the shortage of teachers. That's why I'm gonna leave it at that for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. Mrs Westerveld has the floor. She speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u14	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we're having a flag moment. I hope that all those who hang their flag after the exams in mainstream education will do so when the students in secondary special education hear whether they have passed. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of which, I have a motion on obtaining certificates. I continue to find it special that students who opt for a certificate get zero rematches, while they get four rematches when they go for a diploma. This can cause major problems for the students. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are pupils who have completed courses over several years by means of a certificate and there is no re-opportunity for them;]] [[noting that this may cause problems for pupils, for example because they need these certificates for further training or because they have reached the age of 20 this year and therefore cannot take another year of pre-school education;]] [[calls on the Government to examine with the CvTE the availability of examiners and the possibilities for re-launching students for whom obtaining the certificates is necessary due to further training or age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-192]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u15	I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that several parents and the Minister of Disabled Persons indicated that children unable to wear a mask due to their disability had been refused by transporters in recent weeks;]] [[noting that this prevents children with disabilities from attending school and is further excluded from society and is contrary to the UN Convention on Handicap;]] [[noting that, from 1 July onwards, the requirement to wear masks in pupil transport will disappear, but will be maintained in regular public transport;]] [[Whereas this may lead to uncertainty among carriers;]] [[calls on the Government to communicate clearly to the transport sector that pupils in pupil transport no longer have to wear a mask from 1 July and therefore cannot be refused;]] [[calls on the Government also to ensure that there are sufficient protective equipment and materials for drivers and trainees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a motion and then I'll have one more question for the Minister. The motion is about broad bridge classes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the agreement reached by the Government that schools have a regional mandate to offer as comprehensive a range of different types of bridge classes as possible;]] [[whereas at present the Minister only observes whether there is a variety of bridge classes;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with municipalities, to focus more on a variety of different types of bridge classes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-194]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u17	I'm sure it's me, but I don't quite get that guy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u18	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u19	I said, I'm sure it's me, but I don't quite get that guy again. We have a debate tomorrow on the financing of secondary education, where we have the opportunity, among other things, to do something for those broad bridge classes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u21	Isn't that a lot more logical? I mean, I think it's a good idea. I guess I'm just gonna vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u22	Good idea. I have brought this up in this debate also in the context of corona, because it is precisely now that there is an additional need for broad bridge classes. After all, there has been no final test and no possibility of a rematch, let me just say. That has been the reason for me to do it in this debate, but it could have been tomorrow. But, yes, tomorrow I have quite another, beautiful, new ideas, Mr. Kwint, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u23	I'm looking forward to that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u25	I too will be at the flag moment. It's nice that it's coming and let's all mention Elijah here again, as far as possible, because he's done a lot about it. It's a good thing that's remembered here. He'll be there himself, that's beautiful. I am also very interested in the Minister's reaction to Mrs Westerveld's motion on the rematches for the certificate holders. I've already signed myself up as an examiner, but yes, if it's necessary, it's gonna have to prove. At least it won't be up to me. Finally, a question. It is about something that I have also raised in the debate. The legal requirements for a apprenticeship follow-up system are limited. Schools are hardly aware of that and you see a kind of addiction to systems like Magister and SOM. They are, because those are the only two that still exist. Their prices are being increased and schools are being forced to participate. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to see if anything is possible within the framework of SURF and Knowledge Network. Can such a system be developed from these public services, so that we are no longer dependent on these market players? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u26	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the Chamber's input and we wait for the Minister to have the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u27	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the motions that have been tabled. I'll start with the motion in part No. 189 by Mr Heerema on what the compulsory education officers should do after the summer holidays. I think I have been very clear in the debate. I asked the authors of the previous motion if they could agree, because it was, of course, a statement from the Chamber that after the summer holidays we would use the old regime again. I don't remember taking the word "start up" in my mouth, but if that has led to any clarity, then I'm taking it away from here. All legal possibilities are present. The only thing that has happened in the past period is that the coupon book has not been waved, to say the least domestic. After the summer vacation we will get back to that. In some cities, if it is not corona-related, there is already a bit more stringent action at the moment. We're just gonna go back to working in accordance with the old regime. If there are people who are affected by corona or who cannot go to school for other reasons, they will of course be excluded, but for the rest we work in accordance with... Like the inspection, I was gonna say, but it's the compulsory education officers. Let me say this in the direction of Mr Kwint. That's something else. So we work like the compulsory education officers always do. I think this motion is superfluous in that sense, because it has already been promised. It's confirmed here again. Then it looks like we're doing something different now than we agreed to last week. I don't need a motion for that. I have been very clear in the direction of the Chamber, and the Chamber in my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u29	My memory of the AO is something else. You did indeed ask the submitting party whether it was right that this motion should come to an end, as it were. I had understood that this motion had to be discussed. But the Minister is very clear and says: the current regime will simply start on 1 September, at least the regime before corona. That's enough for me. Then I'll withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u30	I appreciate that, because I think that we have worked together in a very nice way as a Chamber and cabinet and have reached clear conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u31	Since the Rudmer Heerema motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u32	The motion in part No. 190 asks the Cabinet to ensure that all schools in primary, secondary and special education after the summer holidays, within the rules in force, reopen and inform the Chamber accordingly. Primary education is now fully open. That's what we'll continue after the summer break. Special education is also fully open. After the summer vacation we continue with that. Secondary education is not yet fully open, but secondary education is completely open after the summer holidays. The cabinet has been very clear about that. There's no doubt about it. I am even pleased with that, because at the time of consultation the decision was indeed not yet taken by the crisis team. I did tell you that we had applied to the OMT. You also read the OMT's advice. That has given us room for manoeuvre so that we can make that decision. There's no doubt about it. After the summer holidays, all the schools that belong to the foundational education are just opening up, where the vast majority is already at the moment. In that sense, this motion is really superfluous, because two of these types of school are already open and there is no doubt at all that they will open. The decision has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u33	I think I said in my introduction that it is clear that a number of schools communicate with their pupils and their pupils' parents that they will continue in the same way as they are doing for the first three weeks after the summer holidays. I don't think that's possible. Apparently, the Minister doesn't have this information. I want a statement from the Chamber that after the summer holidays the schools will start teaching as we intended before corona time. There's doubt about that. There's noise about that. It has not helped that the government has said in expressions that schools must be opened up again instead. There's a big difference. I think we should simply put this motion to the vote, because I want a ruling on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u34	It is, of course, up to Mr Heerema and his group itself what he wants and does not want to put to the vote. Indeed, we have not received any signals that schools are still unclear about what the situation will be after the summer holidays. When we had our general consultations, there was indeed still uncertainty. At that time, some schools also communicated. But that is what the decision finally came about. What the Prime Minister said at the press conference about the space that was going to come was clap-and-clap. In fact, I think we are going to create confusion ourselves if we pretend it isn't clear. Then about the words "can open again." If that word "may" has been used, it has also been done in relation to the advice of the medical experts, who ultimately also gave the government the courage to take this decision. Of course, these are among the reasons for this. So I think the motion is really superfluous. I think the motion is going to cause confusion, also because you are bringing in school types that are already open at the moment. I wouldn't do that, but that's obviously up to you. Then I come to the motion on part No. 191 by Mr Kwint, asking for corona contaminations that can be traced back to contamination at a specific school to be registered by school. Following the general consultation we had, Mr Van Dissel, you were able to do so or you listened very clearly in the Chamber last week. When someone reports, their age is recorded, whether it's a man or a woman and what his profession is. You know that education and childcare, in one category, are also kept up-to-date. If source and contact research shows that the infection can be traced back to a school, the registration of a school is now added to it. That has now entered into force. This is also published, so we can keep track of which source and contact surveys point the arrows towards a school. We're going to register that properly. That has now been agreed, and that has been communicated with your Chamber. So, in fact, you were served before you failed your motion. So this is what we're gonna do. I think that's a good addition, too. It has been said that sometimes it seems as if there is a lack of clarity as to what the GGD is doing with signals. That also has, quite simply, to do with the cases that arise. At the time when a case refers to a school, action is taken in a different way than when a case refers to a home situation. Apart from that, parents, regardless of what comes from a school, always have the space and the possibilities to be tested, if they want. But your motion has now become obsolete due to time, because this supplement has now taken place and has, of course, also been communicated with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u35	What does that mean for the appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u36	I'm gonna dissuade her. Otherwise, I think there will be confusion, as if something new is going to happen again, when this is now settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u37	The Minister says that this has already been settled. So we will soon be able to get an easy overview in which you can see which corona infections are related to education and to which school they are related?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u38	The names of schools are not mentioned. I can't do that, of course. This has to do with all kinds of restrictions on privacy and so on, because that information can also be traced back to individuals. But it's registered or source and contact research shows that the source of an infection is believed to be a school. If that is the case, it will be properly recorded and we will have it in that overview. But you also know that there have been situations where someone involved in a school was infected, but where source and contact research showed that the infection had arisen in the family situation or otherwise outside the school. Then, of course, no cross is placed behind the school, because that infection has a completely different cause. So every time, source and contact research is done and where it goes is looked at. Is that a school? This is now being properly recorded, as you were promised last week by Mr Van Dissel. This is kept neatly on the websites, so that we have that overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u39	It is precisely my concern that it becomes known when there are corona cases at a school and that information is given about them. Indeed, after source and contact research, the conclusion may be that an infection may not have occurred in a school. But if there was a period of three days, I'll just mention what was in between in which someone did start teaching, then I suppose that's a good reason to do follow-up research. This can also lead to the identification of other cases at the school. And if multiple cases are observed at a school, or one case, is it not so strange that both teachers and parents say "I do want that information"? Moreover, we have recently seen a whole bunch of media reports where it was no problem that schools were simply mentioned, in the sense of'so many cases have been noted here', and 'we are closing' or 'we do not need to close, because we have taken these measures'. It's all public to a large extent. If you do not communicate proactively about this yourself, then the point I raised earlier is the fear that people will keep Excelsheets themselves, the information of which is less verified than if we were to do so as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u40	RIVM has agreed that if source and contact research reveals that it can be traced back to a school, we're going to keep track of that, too. In general... Your supplementary question is appropriate, because I should have mentioned that. There is already an agreement that if there are special clusters, they will then be communicated and reported, also towards parents. Fortunately, this has never been the case in the Netherlands. Let's hope it stays that way. But you'll get all the addition you want. That's how we keep track. In any case, we know that the number of infections among children is very low, even when it comes to portability. Now we are getting additional information, which is not happening in many other sectors. If source and contact research reveals that it can be traced back to a school, then we register it separately. We'll keep a clean record.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u42	So I advise against this motion. Mrs van den Hul has just put her finger on the flag moment for the vso. You knew I'd been working on that for a while. At the moment when we are meeting the flag with the students represented by LAKS, I have also spoken with them about a special moment, especially for the vso. Only they did not feel entitled to represent that group. He doesn't really have a representative, even though there is now a person who does so. Of course he can and he does so with great enthusiasm. I told you we were gonna think about the moment. Friday is the first time and a follow-up will be given at various times in the country. You are all very welcome. Of course, the discussion about opening up and opening up also had to do with the fact that it could not yet be completely open. Now that we can, that ambiguity has finally come to an end. Mrs Westerveld is very consistent in returning to the certificates. I am also consistent in my response, but not because we would not want to make any more exceptions. We have made the choice that if it leads to a diploma there are again re-opportunities. You know it went to three and went to four. We already know by now that we are still working on the rematches for the rest of this calendar year. I have made a very explicit request to that effect today. People have their hands really crowded with them. That has been a clear definition. You mention very specific groups. If a person is 20 years old and one is not quite ready because one does not get his certificate, one always has the space to go on for a year and obtain the certificate. The same applies now, even without corona. When it comes to further education, we are going to make another exception in an exception. This is also going to lead to a lot of inequality, regardless of the demand for capacity, for those who go for the certificates. I am therefore holding on to the answer we have given. It's the most consistent. It's being worked like hell to make sure we can get this calendar year all around.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u43	We have indeed had this discussion a number of times, but I have now modified the motion so that it is a much smaller group than in the previous motion. The previous request was to do this standard for all students who went for certificates. I understand that there is also a group of students who have achieved, for example, a sufficient one, but would like a rematch to get an even higher figure. This motion no longer applies to that. This motion applies only to pupils who are otherwise demonstrably delayed or who are indeed not admitted to further training. My estimate is that this is really a very small group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u44	That's Mrs Westerveld's assessment. But we don't know exactly, either, because it doesn't register for what reason people sign up for part certificates. That would, of course, be a very strange administration. The question does arise now, but it is not kept up in that way. Then you'll get a piece of legal inequality. You can say that it is fair to make an exception to that rule.... an exception that was never made in the normal situation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the discussion that we are now having in addition, just for a moment from the enormous challenge that lies ahead and the clear frameworks that we have given up for when they go for their diploma. I want to hold on to that. The CvTE really has a lot of hands on that with all its people. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u45	If the situation makes sense, it is that secondary special education is lagging behind, even when it comes to exams and rematches. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether the CvTE has the opportunity to make an exception in individual cases. Because I have of course also discussed this with elderly organisations, for example, who are working on this and examiners. They indicate that a number of students are really getting in trouble. I also heard last week that exceptions are being made in an individual case. So there is already inequality. Can't that be standard? Or can the CvTE decide that on the basis of examples they get and on the basis of a student who goes to them and tells them to really get in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u46	I have also checked whether such situations have occurred. I didn't get that confirmed by the CvTE, so I don't know where your example came from. I am always prepared to look at this individually if you can give me that. I have already made myself clear on the matter of 20 years. That was the case in the non-corona period. If a student gets into trouble, it can simply be extended to obtain the highly desirable certificate in the new period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u47	Most exam students in regular secondary education succeed. This also applies in secondary special education. The same applies to the certificate holders. So we are talking about a limited group anyway, because they are the ones who have to do a rematch. With this motion, the group will be restricted once more. That wouldn't even have been necessary from me, honestly, but okay. The only argument mentioned by the Minister is that there is no capacity. But that time and capacity must still be found, if you would say, as with the vso students, that you are taking the time until January 1st, especially if you also use people who are not currently in the picture as examiners at the CvTE? I really do not understand where the Minister's resistance is, other than that the CvTE says that it is not possible with the current occupation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u48	We have been talking about this for so long and I keep gathering new information, also to check whether we are on the right track. It has nothing to do with unwillingness. But we've made a very clear distinction. On the basis of the discussion with the Chamber, we have also increased the number of rematches. I have indicated that we are really at a very exciting point when it comes to tension. But that fourth, okay, that's what we finally noticed: that's what we're going for. But we will also be working until 1 January to reduce these rematches with the available capacity. I checked that again today to make sure that there isn't a little air in it that could possibly be used for that group. We don't know how big that group is. There may be assumptions that it's not that big, but we don't know exactly. In addition, if you are going to make another exception for this group, there will be a bit of inequality for those who are not covered, which will also cause a lot of discussion. That is why I am holding on to the line I have chosen, also in the context of the tension of those...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u49	Very briefly, Mr. Van Meenen, because you're not under the motion, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u50	No, no, no, but I want to know what I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u51	Whatever you need to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u52	I want my voting behaviour to depend on what the Minister is saying. I do understand from the Minister that it is not unwilling and that, if he could, he might do it. But could we at least agree that he will let us know how many students are ultimately involved if that is clear? That seems to me to be relevant information. Suppose, for example, that we know in August as a result of the first round, then you could look again at whether there might be a possibility. But at the moment, I would just like to ask for the promise that we will be told by the Minister before the end of the recess how many students are in need of a second chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u53	If we can give you numbers on this, but again, for what reasons one does not want to obtain a certificate, I will see if it is information that I can share with you. So I will indeed stay alert, but we also need to have some rest towards those who now have to take all these rematches in the coming time, in order to ensure that they succeed in doing so within the time allowed for that. Because before you know it, you're already at the end of this calendar year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u54	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u55	Then the motion to part No. 193 on the mouth caps. Indeed, a decision has now been taken that will no longer be necessary as of tomorrow, 1 July. We are asked by Mrs Westerveld to communicate clearly in the transport sector that students no longer need to wear that mask; but that is also well known. The protocols have now been adapted. The adapted protocols will be distributed to all those involved today or tomorrow at the latest. The decision-making process has therefore now been further translated. That is the new reality, which, fortunately, has become wider than in the old situation. We are, of course, ensuring that there are sufficient protective equipment and materials. I have also checked this today: there is also enough material available at the moment. So there is no problem at this point. In that sense, therefore, this motion has been overtaken by time. Because at the time you are going to vote on this motion, communication has already taken place through protocols.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u56	So your verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u57	I advise against this motion, not because of its content, but because it is already being carried out. That's what we're doing right now. These days, that's reality. The protocol is adopted by Royal Dutch Transport and is also spread with the VNG and all other stakeholders to all those who bear a responsibility for transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u58	I'm gonna keep an eye on this for the next few days. Because the minister says this is already known. We had to look hard before we could find what was agreed. There is also, of course, some light between what can be done in regular public transport and what happens in student transport. So I'll just have the motion put to the vote for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u59	It is true that there is a difference with the student transport. But you are talking here about student transport and not about ordinary transport. The protocol, which you will also be sent, has processed everything and all those involved are part of it, because you know that the Empire is not the owner of the protocols, but the sector itself. Mr Van Meenen has tabled a motion on item No. 194 over the broad bridge classes. From the coalition agreement that is already a subject that has our great attention. Through a dashboard we give insight into the way in which that offer is also sufficiently present in the country. You know that we are quite positive about this, but it can be further strengthened. Given the corona crisis, the need may be greater than ever. I give this motion of censure to the Chamber and will implement it in such a way that it will also be part of it through the Regional Educational Facilities Plan and the Local Educational Agenda which we are now further expanding, also in accordance with commitments made to Mr Ganzevoort in the First Chamber. I will actively encourage this to be brought to the attention of all those who have to make choices. Then your question about the apprenticeship tracking system. You know that I said about Magister's price increases: driving, joining SIVON and making a fist to Magister. But SIVON is also in good contact with SURF and Knowledge Network, who are indeed looking to see if they can also give handouts to build something themselves, so that one is not dependent on those other providers. I will further promote that, because I do think it would be good to have that side of the coin. Moreover, I do not share your somewhat sceptical opinion on apprenticeship follow-up systems. I think they do have a function. Anyway, I want to say that for a while, because I think that can have its value. Mr. Chairman. With that, I have answered the motions and the questions. I look forward to tomorrow's debate with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u60	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-41.u61	We've come to the end of this VAO. The vote on the motions will take place on Thursday. I'll suspend for a few moments, maybe one moment.
