ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mr Den Boer on behalf of D66. This week we say goodbye to no less than two colleagues: Mrs Monica den Boer and Mr Erik Ronnes. Today we say goodbye to Monica and tomorrow we say goodbye to Erik. I'll start with a few sentences from Monica's suicide note. "My decision to leave is particularly difficult for me. I went into politics with a lot of energy and commitment from science, but I have to conclude: I am more scientist than politician. Unfortunately, I have not managed to spread my wings in the Chamber as well as I expected. Nevertheless, I have experienced it as a great privilege to hold this office. All Dutch deserve 150 MPs who take everything out of the closet to bring their ideas and concerns to light. Especially now, during this corona crisis, it is of the utmost importance that the House of Representatives exercises its democratic control as best as possible: it is all hands on deck. Hopefully, the corona crisis will ultimately contribute to the restoration of our mutual trust, our human contact and our solidarity." That was Monica's short letter. Dear Monica, You leave after two and a half years of parliamentary membership. You choose to return to science. Your farewell letter shows that you have long doubted this decision, precisely because parliamentary membership is such a beautiful, important and responsible position. In the end, your answer is no. Science is and remains your great love. With your background, you brought a lot of expertise in criminal law and public administration. So you looked at topics such as police, fire department, crisis management and domestic administration. You were also active in the steering committee working on 100 years of universal suffrage; I believe that Suze Groeneweg, who also came from the Hoeksche Waard, has always been an example to you of what women can achieve. But you couldn't swing your wings as much as you expected. Your honesty is commendable. Few politicians themselves say they haven't achieved any groundbreaking results, as you do. But that makes it no less painful for the Chamber, and especially for the voters, of course, to see another MP leave prematurely. I hope you get wings back in your new position, and I wish you every success in that. Take care!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	A little uncomfortable, but okay. Then I'll suspend for a moment so you can say goodbye to each other, outside the room, at a distance of five feet.
