ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue with the debate on the Economic Affairs and Climate budget. We would have stayed with Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are facing an acute corona crisis and a creeping but urgent climate crisis. Although there is talk of aid packages, I would like to say something about the effects of the corona crisis on the economy. I am not going to talk about the support packages, because there are separate debates for that. But last week, during a general discussion on tourism, I drew attention to the inner cities and the potentially devastating effects of the corona crisis on inner cities in the mix of retail, catering, cultural and public facilities. 800,000 people work in retail alone. I am pleased that my motion was adopted last week in order to explore with the industry organisations how the vitality of the inner cities and of the centres can be maintained. In his contribution, Mr Verhoeven asked about the state of play of a retail task force. The case is urgent. My question to the Secretary of State is how she will carry out these motions. I would also remind the Secretary of State of the United States of a motion from last year. It focused on the delivery economy and the unequal playing field for retail and the delivery economy. I would also like to know what is going on with the implementation of that motion. A second point I would like to mention is that the corona crisis is causing a sharp rise in unemployment. Then it is a very stark contrast and a shame that industry, especially the technical sectors, but also the process industry, is faced with tens of thousands of vacancies. There are just tens of thousands of unfulfilled vacancies. It is a pity that Mr Verhoeven is not in the Chamber, because he said that this is his tenth budget. I would have liked to ask him whether the shortage of professionals was a problem ten years ago. I think it was. My question to the rulers is: what are we going to do about it? We have to help people from work to work. How are we gonna fill those vacancies? We can talk about an economic growth fund, but if we do not have potential growth because we do not know how to fill tens of thousands of vacancies, that is actually a great shame. We are simply abandoning potential economic growth because companies do not have enough people and have to reject contracts they can get. Mr. Chairman. In addition, there is a risk that the influx into these sectors will also dry up. A lot of internships aren't going on right now. I do not want to speak directly about a lost generation, but we are running the risk of having a large group of young people who will not or will not enter the sectors where we have so many vacancies and where there is such a screaming need for professionals. What's the Cabinet doing in that area? I can smell a little what the rulers are going to say, namely that this should be addressed to the Minister for Education or the Minister for Social Affairs on an occasion. But my position is that education policy and social policy are economic policy, so even if the rulers do not formally have competence in this, they do have an interest in getting our economy back on track as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the long-term crisis and its approach. Last week, the Planning Office for the Environment gave a richly destructive assessment of climate policy. My question to the rulers is... Let's see if their sub-meeting is over, because I see they're busy talking to each other. My question is: what is the Cabinet going to do to achieve the climate objectives? It cuts me through my soul. I got an e-mail from the Young Climate Movement. They're asking for a climate authority, for perseverance. It's about their future, about the future of the younger generation. We have a climate law and we have a climate agreement. They look beautiful, but my question to the rulers is: what is their realization power? That question, I think, is legitimate. That is also to be proposed for those structurally unfulfilled vacancies in the engineering and process industries. What is the realisation power of this cabinet if we leave these tasks so long and do not respond sufficiently? What additional measures do I intend to take to get the climate ship back on the right track with the questions from other political groups? I also see this lack of realism in the Growth Fund. First of all, this Growth Fund has had an elephant charm. It took incredibly long before the first idea had been turned into a concrete plan and the question is whether it is concrete enough. What's the impact of that 20 billion? Originally, there was 50 billion. I would remind you that the network companies alone will invest 40 billion in the next ten years, so yes, how should we see that in perspective? Is that 20 billion enough? That's what I'm asking the Minister. Governance is also very complicated. As far as the PvdA is concerned, we simply need to make a much sharper choice. We cannot leave the choices to be made about the use of the funds of the Growth Fund to externalities. Those are just political choices. As far as the PvdA is concerned, there will be two sharp priorities. First of all: strengthening innovation and training. In the case of a declining labour force, we need to increase the level of training to maintain and further increase the productivity of the economy. Do the rulers share that view? Do they also share the plea of, among other things, our Nobel Prize winner, Mr Feringa, who said that investment in fundamental research should be concentrated? The applications will then be released, and with that the jobs will also be created. The second thing that needs to be invested is the hydrogen economy. Hydrogen is an important energy carrier. The Netherlands has all the assets to develop that hydrogen economy. My question to the rulers is whether they really want to give it absolute priority. There's just huge opportunities. Among other things, in the North of the Netherlands there are opportunities to start that hydrogen economy. We also see, for example, the project of the gas treatment plant in Emmen, where a hydrogen project is running, how difficult it is to get that chain organized properly. We really need to work on that. Then I come to hydrogen, saying goodbye to the fossil economy. We're moving to a hydrogen economy. To support this transition socio-economically, the European Commission has set up the Just Transition Fund. Northern Netherlands has really been designated as a core area, as targeted area. Mrs Mulder says that half the funds can also be spent in other regions. I would remind you that only 1% of the previous natural gas revenues invested in the Economic Structural Fund have been spent in the North of the Netherlands. In regional economic policy, too, it was the mainports, the brainports and the greenports. In the past, at the time of the peat extraction, Pekela was a very rich place in the North of the Netherlands. East Groningen collapsed after the peat extraction stopped. We can't let that happen after the gas extraction. 20,000 jobs are lost in the North of the Netherlands. I do not think that Northern Netherlands should be shipped off with a half egg with the Just Transition Fund, because Northern Netherlands is entitled to the full pound. And I'm not saying that that really should be 100%, I don't want to pour everything into concrete, but I do think that a much larger share of the Just Transition Fund should go to the North of the Netherlands. That is where the greatest disruption of the fossil economy takes place. That is what these resources are for. Then I come to industrial policy. The cabinet is making more of that. Hail for that. A letter was published in May, but concrete action is needed. Earlier this morning, VDL was mentioned. Yeah, we need to help bring the automotive industry to a next level. I'm talking about the production of electric cars. But I would also like to draw particular attention to Tata Steel. I tabled a motion in June to help Tata Steel, the steel industry in the Netherlands, if necessary by unconventional means, to move on to another stage. Ultimately, this should lead to a steel industry that has hydrogen as its energy source. At the moment there are concrete plans and concrete proposals. There is an extensive working group, including people of name and fame who are committed to this. My question is whether the Minister wants to talk to the initiators, whether he wants to embrace that plan and whether he is prepared to take Tata Steel to the next level, if necessary through the formation of a consortium and investment funds. Finally, Mr President. Mrs Beckerman called attention to the coal chain. There's going to be a power plant, a coal power plant, on the Maasvlakte, but upstream it's going to have its effects. The supply, the import of coal will decrease. I know how difficult the discussion was at the time to get the FNV into the energy agreement. The coal fund was really a hitch there. I think that we really need to pay attention to the employment effects throughout the coal chain, not just the power plant that is at stake. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. I am also at the end of my speaking time. I said when interrupting that the further capitalization of the regional development companies can help in terms of companies seeking finance and having a capital requirement. They cannot be transferred to the Growth Fund. A step was taken in August, but my question to the Secretary of State is whether she is prepared to make additional capital available to regional development companies so that they can gain more investment power to stimulate the regional economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. When Mrs Mulder reported this morning that it was a thank-you day, I saw from the minister's body language that he had no idea what that was about. Thank you, yes. In the Netherlands there has been a habit of praying and thanking for a good harvest since the Middle Ages. Prayer day in spring, thank you in autumn. And as industrialization increased, the thank-you day for crop became a thank-you day for crop and labor. So let me just start today by thanking all those entrepreneurs who are fighting for the preservation of jobs and for the survival of their business. They form the backbone of the Dutch economy. But I also look with gratitude at a robust government that has built buffers and can now create a temporary safety net to take the worst hits. Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union, the company is a community of values, where people work together for a common goal. We shape this community of values by how employer and employee interact and how they take responsibility for the impact of the company on the environment, the natural environment and society, here and far away. The company as a community of values is the foundation for an economy in which relationships between people are central and in which we behave as good stewards for creation. An economy that we want to pass on to our children and grandchildren, one that offers room for economic growth, but also peace and attention to what really matters. In that we take some nice steps. The cabinet has taken over my proposal for the social enterprise, the bvm. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the bvm is the banner for that economy of the future. The company with a social mission will increasingly become the standard and ever less the exception. In addition, we see the choices for imvo and for Rhineland-Palatinate conditions in case of state aid to individual companies that this cabinet formulated at the beginning of May. We see the adopted motion on the national company guarantee that can further shape these ideas and we see plenty of attention for family businesses, including from the political point of view. Family businesses are the example of the company as a community of values with by definition a long-term focus. That is the Netherlands, that is enterprise and we want to cherish these companies. At the start of the corona crisis, we saw a number of companies changing quickly, but it was unheard of that we had to get the most vital products with an air bridge from Asia, with weeks of delay and only after political pressure. We need a manoeuvrable, innovative manufacturing industry that makes and exports smart products. The economic basis is also our manufacturing industry in the 21st century. The Netherlands must learn technologically and in terms of production to stop its own pants together with its neighbors. I would like to hear from the cabinet about the implementation of the Heerma/Segers motion on strategic dependencies of vital sectors. But you can never predict exactly what you need in the future, so don't suddenly build a mouth cap factory. We need a versatile and agile manufacturing industry, with smart, practically trained technicians. Technicians are literally vital. That's why I'm going to focus on the three m's, people, means and measures. People first. Even with today's unemployment, there are major shortages in the manufacturing industry. We lack tens of thousands of practically trained professionals, while at the same time many recently graduates do not know how to get a job. Vocational education in science and technology must be made more accessible, including in study costs. We need to invest heavily in technical VMBO, MBO and HBO training. Until universities, we must make these studies attractive where employers are raving at the gates when there is a graduation ceremony. Does the cabinet feel this urgency with me and does the cabinet share my view that we should dare again to steer the influx into education? There should be a brake on training which has a lean labour market perspective, especially in times of crisis when many people need to be retrained. How is the cabinet going to steer this so that we can train the professionals of the future? That is an EZ question for me and not just an OCW question. The second m stands for means. Investing in innovation pays off. That is why it is a good thing that the Growth Fund is going to be there. What does everything I have said in this regard about long-term focus, agile manufacturing industry and training professionals for the Growth Fund mean that we have to take this green and circular future into our hands? How are we going to ensure that the whole country benefits from the Growth Fund, knowing that this innovative manufacturing industry is also located in Twente, in the Achterhoek, around Brainport, near Chemelot, in Southeast Drenthe? How does the Growth Fund strengthen our earning capacity across the country? And how's it gonna relieve the Randstad? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet supports R&D with the Wbso scheme. Very well, but isn't it also time to look at an extended first disc or a new second disc, to stimulate companies to do more about innovation and not just make it cheaper? Very well that the Secretary of State supports sustainable shipbuilding on a multiannual basis, but is the maritime industry also covered by the European recovery fund? After all, we now see that other countries are also supporting their maritime industry. Does the cabinet guard the European level playing field in this very international sector with severe competition? When is the government going to buy something really innovative? The number of SBR projects is still very low. It seems that purchasing departments of governments never think about buying innovation-oriented products, while it allows you to support the Dutch manufacturing industry and SMEs in a very targeted way. Can the Secretary of State ensure that the number of SBR projects increases across the whole range of government, right now, in crisis time? Mr. Chairman. The third m stands for measuring. The calibration of measuring instruments is of great importance for the Dutch manufacturing industry. For years I have been concerned about the availability of measurement standards and the continued existence of high-quality calibration facilities in the Netherlands. The staff turnover at our national measurement institute VSL is high and the corona crisis has made the financial situation more serious than ever before. I still believe that it was a wrong choice by the previous cabinet to reject this institution and put it completely on the market. The need to make a financial contribution now shows that. The basic infrastructure of metrology is vital infrastructure which should be in public hands. But now that it is as it is, the government must at least have control over the services offered by the institute and the unique measurement standards associated with it. I note that the Secretary of State is aware of this, and with her letter to this effect she is taking a number of important steps. However, the various tasks, roles and responsibilities of the Ministry, the Institute and the Board of Experts are still simply too unclear. As the government's concerned controller, I just want to make sure that all the services that are crucial for the Dutch high-tech manufacturing industry are continued, crisis time or no crisis time. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the climate. We see that the Netherlands is becoming greener and cleaner, but we need to take additional steps in our care for creation. The Christian Union believes it is important that we build a climate-neutral economy and society together with citizens, cooperatives and entrepreneurs. The KEV shows that it needs a strong tooth in the coming years, with the major challenges of heat production and doubling energy savings. A national isolation program as advocated in the Segers/Klaver motion that helps people to make their homes more sustainable is more urgent than ever. It is therefore a good thing that all sectors of the economy take their responsibility quickly and that there will be a strong CO levy for too many greenhouse gases emitted by industry. But the Council of State is critical. I know the Minister of EZK as a rasoptimist, but more measures are really needed here. In November there will be proposals from a study group. Do I find the Minister at my side when I ask him to look with me at these proposals with an open mind to see what we can quickly pick up so that we do not move on to another cabinet period? Mr. Chairman. There is also a regional and local energy transition, but what I miss is a clear message from the Empire. When the Minister of EZK once again prices a nuclear power station or when the Minister of BZK thinks that all wind on land is going to fall into the sea, municipalities find it a bit more difficult to create support for the local transition. Because why a windmill in my garden, if Mr. Wiebes is going to build a nuclear power plant anyway? Is the Ministry willing to support the municipalities in the local transition in word and deed? And is the Minister prepared to adapt the national rules on local property and citizen participation in such a way that bumps are removed so that this can really get going? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union and the CDA advocate that most of the Just Transition Fund be used to boost the hydrogen economy in Northern Netherlands. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion for a resolution on this matter? What means and instruments does the Minister provide to enable the scaling-up of the hydrogen economy and thus achieve the objectives set out in the Climate Agreement? I'm closing up. I started with the explanation about thank-you day for crop and labor. And yes, there's a lot to be thankful for, even in crisis time. But gratitude is never complacency. Ora et labora, pray and work. We need to get our hands on a delta plan manufacturing industry, for training professionals, for building a fully circular economy, for innovating and creating the necessary transitions so that we build the 21st century economy, the economy of our children. And maybe we should adjust that age-old habit of a thank-you day for crop and labor to this time of year. A thank-you day for crop, labor and innovation and then the Minister and Secretary of State, knowing them, will probably join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u7	That's all very nice, from that thank you day, and I share that also of course from my upbringing and faith, but a good shepherd brings his sheep in on time and protects them from the invading of wolves. You should do that as a good shepherd. You do everything to protect your sheep, you put dogs in there, you put barbed wire and put power on it, and you do what else you can do. But you're not gonna let wolves in. Let me turn it around to economics. It's all very nice to say that, but we're killing our entrepreneurs ourselves, all of them. The Christian Union has also contributed to this, with all due respect. They've never supported any of my motions that can counter that. We allow false competition, we finance false competition from the former Eastern bloc through the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u8	Your question is, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u9	It's all funded. They're financing their own competition. We just let everyone in and everything gets ruined, everything. Our whole economy, our whole care, everything gets ruined.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u10	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u11	No, no question, I wanted to give you a message. I don't even have a question, because I can't let him answer that. I'd make a huge fool of him. It's very nice to say thank you here, but we're not doing anything about it. It's very hard to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u12	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u13	We're killing our entrepreneurs, our own people. We're bad sheep keepers. We don't, but most of us here do, like a lot of Cabinets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u14	That was a message. You don't have to respond to that, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u15	I would like to say a great deal about how we really want to be the best boy in Europe when it comes to open markets, while other European countries play very smart games to protect their own industry. We do little, we do too little. Hence my call, for example through SBR and innovative procurement, for us to focus much more on our own industry. I believe that we should use all the rules to ensure that the government buys Dutch products and uses Dutch products as a launching customer with its large purchasing power and thus stimulates innovation in the Netherlands. I can go on for 45 minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u16	No, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u17	But this seems to me to be an excellent introduction to a college on innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u18	One last question. Mr Öztürk also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u19	I understand the idea of Dutch products and Dutch innovation, but if we want to keep VDL Nedcar open, we still need to invite foreign car manufacturers to the Netherlands to produce here and create jobs. So we cannot only work with Dutch products and must be engaged internationally. For this I ask the Christian Union to make a contribution to finding an international partner, also for Limburgs VDL Nedcar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u20	Concrete question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u21	Yes, Mr President, in my contribution, I have argued that we should be able to stop our own pants, along with our neighbors. We live in a blessed piece of land in the world with good neighbors around us. Together, we are one of the strongest industrial clusters in the world. It is important that we keep manufacturing industry in our country and that we also look across borders, but the most important thing is that we go for innovative, agile manufacturing industry, so that we can make products that are smarter than products from other countries. Then we can export them and make money from them, so that we can be a strong country and protect the vulnerable people in our country. You will also have to have a strong economy and an innovative manufacturing industry. That's the only thing that's gonna make real money in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. For a minister about whom some say he prefers technology rather than man, he has achieved remarkably much. Against all warnings, he is quite capable of maintaining the fossil industry. Yeah, he's closing the gas field in Groningen fast, and that deserves compliments. Sure, here's the deal. But, rien ne va plus. That's what the dealer at the casino says when you can't bet anymore, when you can't gamble anymore. Gambling is what the minister did with climate policy. It has become painfully clear that there is far too great a chance that we will not achieve the climate targets, either in terms of CO reduction or in terms of energy saving or in terms of renewable energy. According to the PBL, the objective of 75% CO reduction at the end of this year can only be achieved in highly unlikely situations. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the motion adopted by the Animal Party not to take any risk with the Urgendavonnis and to make an extreme effort to achieve the Urgend goal. I'm considering another motion on this. Mr. Chairman. There is no mention whatsoever of the 49% reduction target for 2030, which has already been mentioned and which is far from satisfactory. 34%, and perhaps more, if measures are implemented which are not yet concrete at all. It is shocking how little "the greenest cabinet ever" has managed to achieve in terms of climate for this generation and for future generations. What is perhaps much worse is how the Minister is hiding behind the climate policy that is still in the pipeline. Let me wake the Minister up for a moment. This policy is not included by the PBL for a reason. It is still far too little concrete to be passed on. How is it that, in its own words, the greenest cabinet has managed so little? What's that in? How is it possible for the Netherlands in Europe to push up the climate target to 55%, while in the Netherlands itself, unlike Denmark, Finland and Austria, waiting for agreement within the EU? I think I know the answer to that. The government's focus is still too much on short-term interests, particularly in the fossil, livestock and aviation industries. It does not look at what is scientifically necessary, but it looks at what is feasible, taking into account, in particular, the interests of the fossil industry. Thunberg put it sharply. She said, until you start focusing on what needs to be done instead of what is politically possible, there is no hope. I will give some examples of this cabinet's foreign short-term policy. The fifteen most polluting companies in the Netherlands, which contribute 86% to CO emissions, do not contribute 86% to solving the problems for which they themselves are responsible. On the contrary, the biggest polluters get all kinds of tax benefits and so pay far less than you and I. The horticulture sector consumes 80% of agricultural energy, but pays less than large consumers and also gets exemption from storage renewable energy taxes. Does the Minister agree that more equal tax treatment is needed? I'd like a response. As far as we know, 6.6% of the companies covered by the saving obligation are 100% liable to the tax. Imagine that only 6.6% of taxpayers in the Netherlands would actually pay taxes. Or that only 6.6% of the aircraft that were to leave would arrive as well. Does the Minister agree that he should be a little ashamed of this? I am therefore considering putting forward a motion to help the local authorities enforce it in this area. Aviation is thus being kept above board and, at its own discretion, can set climate targets that are as favourable as possible to the sector. Reducing emissions is mainly about compensating. And this while the sector is exempt annually from paying 2.45 billion in kerosene tax. I know that the Minister is not formally about this, but does he not feel a little responsible for that sector, which has such an impact on the climate? I come to the question: does the Minister agree that his climate policy is actually unbelievable? Mr. Chairman. Related to the short-term focus is the fact that no account is taken of unforeseen costs. I have talked about this before, about the so-called unexpected climate disasters. Time and again, it appears that the climate crisis is unfolding faster than ever thought possible and that the consequences are also greater than expected. I'm thinking of news reports like "oceans warm up 40% faster than thought," "climate change accelerates," "permafrost thawed out 70 years earlier," "warmest September ever," "heat record November night," "perpetual heat waves above the polar circle." Rien ne va plus. I ask the Minister why he wants to be on the wrong side of history. Speaking of which, the wrong side of history is a nice little bridge to biomass. I see the Minister is already thinking, because he's going to grab his head right now. He'll wonder what I mean, but I'll explain this. There is a disastrous policy on woody biomass, a fuel that does not contribute to solving the climate problem, but rather worsens it. It's better halfway back than all the way down. Over the past four years, it seems as if the Minister has deliberately left the policy on its way, with another investigation here, a report there, and then to postpone clear conclusions again. And that as the unrest in society grows about it and the unrest in the coalition also grows. Yet the Minister continues his old policy and lifts decisions about the elections. Thus, the Minister saddles the next cabinet with his biomass plants, just as he saddles the next generation with his climate policy and, in particular, with its consequences. So far, the Minister prefers to stick to the false accounting reality that says woody biomass is CO-neutral. I now have a question that is actually easy to answer with a yes or no. Does the Minister himself, regardless of bookkeepers in Europe and what he prescribes, when he bases himself on his own observations, his own observations and reasonings and his cognitive abilities, think that woody biomass as a fuel for power stations on the scale he wants to apply is CO-neutral, also given that a tree has only grown back after 50 years? Now it may be obvious that the Minister is going to answer: it is not about what I think. That could be an answer. In this case, however, it is precisely the issue that is at stake. Because I think I am almost certain that the Minister himself is aware that biomass is not CO-neutral. I also have the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister know the letter of fire from 70 residents' organizations, scientists and foreign NGOs that appeared in De Telegraaf yesterday? Can he respond to that? Can it indicate whether coal plants can remain open if they run 100% on a fuel other than coal? And could the 100% wood biomass combustion plants apply for a new SDE subsidy for burning woody biomass? Mr President, I will conclude. The Minister and I are of an age when we are probably not going through the worst consequences of climate change ourselves. But we are of the generation that is co-responsible for the enormous increase in CO emissions over the last 40 years. And we are also of the last generation who can do something about it. In the three previous budgets, I have been convinced that the Minister has taken his task seriously in the field of economic affairs, but frankly that is not true for his role as climate minister. He did not achieve the Urgenda target, he did not achieve the energy transition targets and he did not achieve the 2030 target. Unfortunately, we have to conclude that the past few years have been lost years. The consequences are not only for future generations, but also for vulnerable societies elsewhere, who are already feeling the consequences. I blame the Minister for this. The Animal Party wishes to remind the Minister why we are doing this, why we are now committed to reducing CO2. That is not for biomass accounting in Europe. It's not for industry's wind figures. It's for the preservation of ourselves. Mr. Chairman. We will table several motions and amendments which, for example, will reduce financial incentives for the fossil economy. For example, they will make energy saving easier and stop the burning of trees. Finally, we will make a proposal for a uniform CO levy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Chairman. It is nice that my colleagues Mulder from the CDA and Bruins of the Christian Union began to remember that today it is thanksday, for crop and labor. The Minister still has a bit of a clue what it's about, with the explanation. For the sake of clarity, it is a day to thank God for all the good he gives us. So it's not just for entrepreneurs and governments and so on; it's a day to thank God. I thought that was something to consider, too. Mr Bruins said: let's expand it a little bit; we can let the crop, labour and innovation be. Now I am a somewhat conservative person, so I think: let's keep the tradition as it is: focused on crop and labor. Nevertheless, I am actually very grateful for this innovation. Because I'm used to going to church this day. I was going to do that tonight, and I'm going to do it a little bit, but I'm going to do it behind the digital devices, because unfortunately we can't all go into that church building together. So I am actually also very grateful for the innovation that allows us to experience divine services at a distance. If anyone is interested, and if the minister or anyone else is free tonight, I can forward the link in a moment. All right, Chairman, let's leave it at that. The most beautiful thing I still think is that we can thank God for giving us his Word, because it contains very nice and good lessons for our daily lives. One of those lessons I'm taking to this budget is that of the wise and the foolish builder. This is not only a lesson for our personal lives, but also for entrepreneurs, climate policy and so on. Because without a good foundation, no matter how fast you build it, a house cannot withstand storms. For companies, especially the SME entrepreneurs and their families, there are enormous stormy times, with great uncertainties. Last night, we had a debate on the support package and we started working on short-term support. But today is, I think, the day to look further and really look at laying a good foundation under our economy. Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with the financing of SMEs. Colleagues have already mentioned that the financing of SMEs in banks is rather inadequate, especially at the moment. There are plenty of private investors who would like to do so, but who would like to do so against, for example, the capital return tax. The SME Financing Foundation advocates the introduction of the Winwin Loan and the Venture Capital Scheme. In neighbouring countries, such arrangements are very positive. My question to the rulers is whether they want to examine the possibilities for this in the short term. Mr. Chairman. I also had a whole section on the possibilities of the maritime manufacturing industry. But Mr Bruins in particular took the words out of my mouth, so I am not going to do that. I am just going to put a question along the lines of this: what is the cabinet going to do to support our maritime manufacturing industry? I think, for example, that we should keep the submarines that we are going to build as the Netherlands mainly here. I'll come back to that with the Secretary of Defense, but I'm sure it'll be remembered. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the Growth Fund, because the SGP has some doubts about that. I am pleased that we are having a separate debate, in which we can discuss the Court's budget law, the added value of the separate fund and the lack of a proactive investment agenda at the moment. But I would like to put two questions to the cabinet for the debate we are about to have. I understand that plans have been submitted from different ministries for the first round. My question to the Minister is whether, as a Chamber, we can also get these plans. That gives us a bit of insight and a bit of feeling about that black box that it still is for us as Members of Parliament. That is the first question. The second question is whether, for the forthcoming debate, the Minister can provide insight into the perspective for SMEs. How will SMEs not deal with large business in this Growth Fund? The Netherlands Committee for Entrepreneurship notes that many government regulations focus on the development of innovations, but not on their application. The Committee therefore calls for an investment scheme aimed at the application of innovations by SMEs. How do the rulers appreciate this plea in the light of the growth fund ambitions? I would like to hear about this in this debate. Then there's the line pressure. Unlike the previous cabinet, this cabinet had no clear objective for dealing with regulatory pressure. What did we see happen? The regulatory pressure sneaked up, to the value of EUR 1.2 billion if I read it correctly. I mention, among other things, the privacy regime, which is particularly difficult for smaller companies, but the OECD is also strongly critical of the application of the comprehensive balancing framework to new regulations. In short, it is high time for a clear objective with at least a zero line, and for a better application of the integrated balancing framework. Cabinet, will you pick up this glove? Mr. Chairman. Then digitalization. That is, of course, Mr Verhoeven's area, but I would like to say something about it. Because digitisation offers opportunities, but also risks to security and privacy. I'd like to think about the odds first. The Dutch Committee for Entrepreneurship, which I have just spoken about, calls for the digitisation programme for SMEs to be scaled up. SME-Netherlands advocates a pilot with innovation performance contracts for digitalisation. Will the rulers pick this up? During the General Reviews, I come now to the risks............................................................................................................................................................ This has also been confirmed by the Prime Minister, who in his reply did not know which minister he should be with. Let me give you an example. Tens of thousands of loading posts in our country do not meet the requirements of cybersecurity. Suppose hackers get access, they can cause major malfunctions. Then there are three ministries that have a responsibility: EZK, IenW and JenV. Then how are you gonna stop those ministries pointing at each other? In short, how is the cabinet going to avoid a fragmented approach and therefore a loss of power in the digital domain, especially when it comes to it? Mr. Chairman. Let me just say a few words about the Climate Act. We are at the beginning of a complex conversion of our energy supply. Think of the discussion about biomass, the built environment, regional infrastructure bottlenecks and the fine speech of the VVD earlier. I'm not gonna repeat that, because I don't have time for that. But now the cabinet thinks it's wise to hover through a binding European target of 55% CO reduction in 2030 and a tightening of our own Dutch climate law. Let me be very clear: I disagree. Because does the Cabinet know what the impact is? According to the BNC chips, not yet. For example, European ambitions suggest a doubling of our reduction target for the built environment. I say forget it. Please, let's get realism back. So as far as we are concerned, at least no tightening up of the Climate Law. Because if the Planning Bureau calculates that the 49% target for 2030 is not likely to be met, then there is a panic, while I think the problem is much more in the current low gas prices, which, moreover, are beneficial for achieving CO targets at EU level. I do not think it is a lack of policy here in the Netherlands. So, as far as I'm concerned, we shouldn't juggle with CO targets and measures, we should go on calmly, realisticly and soberly. Mr. Chairman. Just a brief word on energy poverty. The SGP calls again for attention to be paid to the alleviation of energy poverty. Others have done the same. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister whether, in consultation with municipalities and fellow executives, he would like to work on a joint approach, rather than continuing to be fragmented. For the rest, I do not have my text on this point in view of the time; I think the question is clear. All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll end up with the Bible, the SGP itself. For king Solomon, well known, says that a handful of rest is much better than the two fists full of labour. I, and I hope everyone else, would like everyone to have Sunday rest, especially the shopkeepers. The cabinet still has to respond to my written contribution to the bill to prevent forced shop opening, but at the same time, in addition to that Sunday, a broader desire of shopkeepers to be free to choose their own line at any time outside the regular opening hours is also being expressed. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she wants to think along these lines. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mr President. This morning I got on the train in Roermond. I wasn't the only Limburger. Several Limburgers got on the train. They were employees of VDL Nedcar. They were worried about their job. Not just because of their job, because over 5,000 people work at VDL Nedcar. Those jobs are on the road. BMW has indicated from 2023 that it wants to stop production in Born. The DENK Group wants the government to indicate what it can do for these people and for employment and technology in Limburg. Mr. Chairman. This has happened more often in the past, when Daimler and Mitsubishi stopped manufacturing cars in Born. Therefore, it is important that the cabinet now finds a sustainable solution and also crosses all limits where it is necessary to maintain a car factory in Limburg, to maintain employment in Limburg and to maintain the technology in Limburg. In order to do so, the cabinet could, if necessary, go unorthodoxly to bring car manufacturers across the border to the Netherlands to keep employment here. Mr. Chairman. Not only the Limburgers, but everyone in the Netherlands is worried about their job or business. That makes this budget of Economic Affairs and Climate so special. This is the last chance for directors to pick up the signals from entrepreneurs and employees. It's the last chance for them to boost the economy. Three years ago, in December 2017, we first discussed a budget of EZK with Minister Wiebes and Secretary of State Keijzer. At that time, we gave our view of the economy. We have also put this in a document: "DENOWLEDGE of Economics. Diversity as a strength for the economy." We then offered that to the Secretary of State and the Minister. We will offer that again today through the chairman. Why do we do that? Because we would like to know what they have done with this in those three years and what they intend to do with it in the coming year. I'd like to hear that in writing if necessary. For example, we have proposed the creation of a centre of knowledge for diversity and the economy. We have tabled a proposal that the second year of illness should no longer be paid by entrepreneurs in companies with fewer than 25 employees. In order to tackle discrimination more effectively, entrepreneurs are also discriminated against. To reduce taxes for SMEs. To make a social cost-benefit analysis of the negative impact of xenophobia on the economy. When it comes to reducing the tax burden on SMEs, we see a step in the right direction by reducing the corporate tax rate to 15% for SMEs. But yes, what the cabinet gives with one hand, takes it away with the other hand, as with the reduction of the self-employed deduction, which goes from €7,200 to €3,200. On other points I have mentioned, I do not see much progress. Why did the cabinet abandon the abolition of pay-as-you-go payments in the second year of illness for smaller companies? One of the few good plans in the coalition agreement has been destroyed. It would bring back affordable private policies, but I haven't heard much about this. What's the status of this? Is it even a serious alternative to paying for the second year of illness? There's not enough attention for thezzp'ers. In the middle of the crisis, they will receive a reduction in the government's self-employed deduction. But that's not the kind of attention they need. They mostly need a little push in the back. Workers get the chance to get retrained with a lot of schemes from one job to another, butzzp'ers... Well, they should also be able to go from one employer to another, or to another job. What they could use are special vouchers to train or be coached. Can the Secretary of State consider creating in-service vouchers or coaching vouchers forzzp's? I'd like a response. I am also considering a motion on this point. I would now like to turn to an issue that I have dealt with a great deal in recent years: lending to SMEs. We have had several discussions with colleagues about this. And yet it is very difficult to get credit as a small entrepreneur. And when you get credit, you just see that there are sky-high interest rates or costs on the other side. How can you help the small businessman to make a contribution to the economy after all? In particular, in the period 2013-2017, the banks' lending collapsed. During this period, total lending decreased by about 10%. Research carried out in 2015 by research firm Panteia on behalf of the EU showed that 39% of the credit applications in the Netherlands were immediately rejected. That was the highest percentage in Europe at the time. The last few years after 2017 it seemed that things were getting a little better, let's have said that as well. In the first wave, the banks were quite well positioned. They were in some cases accommodating with solutions and interest payments. The number of bankruptcies remained low for the time being. Unemployment was also limited. This was mainly due to the support packages NOW 1 and NOW 2. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also supported this. The group of DENK has spoken out against the austerities in the second and third packages, because precisely now that the second wave is hitting hard, entrepreneurs are going to find it very difficult, which means that many viable companies can unnecessarily go bankrupt. My question to the Minister and the Secretary of State is therefore: is the cabinet prepared to reverse the austerity of the aid package? The support package must breathe with the economy, but in this way the economy will only suffocate. I am getting signals that banks are now beginning to become less generous in the second wave, that credits may not be extended and that new loans are becoming increasingly difficult. A study by the SME Financing Foundation shows that 54% of SMEs expect liquidity problems and need funding within six months. A lack of funding would be disastrous, especially as entrepreneurs were absorbed on their reserves during the first wave. The soil is now in sight with many entrepreneurs. The rack's out. Credit is like oxygen for a company; without oxygen, the company suffocates. And if a company can fall over due to bankruptcies, then there is a negative domino effect. Eventually, we end up in an unmanageable negative spiral; scenario black for the economy. We must avoid this at all costs, so the banks must take their social responsibility. During the period 2008-2009 a number of Dutch banks were saved with tax money, from entrepreneurs, from the people, especially ING and ABN AMRO. In 2013, SNS REAAL was rescued by the nationalisation of this bank. Now is the time to give something back to society. Are the Minister and Secretary of State prepared to consult with the banks in order to keep lending going? I'm considering a motion on this point. Is it true that government guarantee schemes, such as the SMEB, only cover one percent of all loans? Then public policy will have no impact in this way, will it? In what way can the Secretary of State ensure that government guarantee schemes are much wider in scope and, for example, apply to 10% of all loans? A number of guarantee schemes have been rigged specifically for the corona crisis: BMKB-C, KKC, GO-C and COL. Is it true that only 5% of these schemes are actually used? All these arrangements, all these resources that we are making available, why are they hardly being used? Are they unknown, or are they too complicated in implementation? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The cabinet can also help finance in other ways. The business association ONL has a panel with entrepreneurs in it and therefore knows quite well what is going on with the entrepreneurs. The ONL makes a number of valid recommendations every year, including fewer rules and better access to credit for SMEs, for example by reintroducing the auntagath scheme that existed earlier between 2001 and 2011. This scheme has a tax reduction for investments in venture capital. Another example is the Winwin scheme. This scheme also includes a tax reduction on interest rates for loans to SME entrepreneurs. Both schemes have a form of loss deduction. So a loss or write-off on the loan or investment may be deducted from the taxable sum. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The group of DENK would like the banks to show a little more empathy for the SME entrepreneurs. For example, banks could do this by not asking for repayments on current loans. They've been doing that for the past six months. If they offer a few more months of delay, a number of entrepreneurs can survive. I am considering a motion on this point. I am also thinking here of making better use of various guarantee schemes, which they themselves called for in the spring. Fair business is also important, for which a number of colleagues have rightly called for attention. This also means that no one should be discriminated against. There is discrimination in the labour market but there is also discrimination in the entrepreneurial market. Entrepreneurs with a migration background are still discriminated against in the entrepreneurial market. I am referring to public procurement, which spends EUR 73 billion a year, but also expenditure between entrepreneurs. The employee sends a letter of application. The entrepreneur sends a quote. The exclusion mechanisms that follow are similar. More and more discrimination is being exposed. Discrimination in the housing market, discrimination in the labour market, discrimination by and within the police, discrimination in education, discrimination in the street and discrimination on the Internet. The discrimination ghost is a multifaceted monster that is difficult to combat and keeps showing up again and again. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, Tamara van Ark, is working on the labour market with mystery guests and anti-discrimination plans that companies have to make. She is also doing quite well, but that is mainly about the personnel policy of companies. Moreover, this can be done even better by making the charter mandatory diversity for companies with more than 50 employees and by making the charter mandatory in calls for tenders. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u28	Tamara Van Ark is now Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u29	I know a lot of people from all directions, but also a Turk who also knows Mr Öztürk well and whom we may well call by the name because he has come a long way, namely Atilay Uslu, one of the best and one of the top entrepreneurs here in the Netherlands. That man's had every chance. I believe he was 1 when he came to the Netherlands. He's had every opportunity and he's never been discriminated against. And look at our President sitting here and look at a lot of friends and acquaintances of mine who made it all. And they come from all kinds of countries that you can imagine. I think you need to be a little nuanced. You're putting everything in the magnifying stairs now, but I don't think that's right at all. If people get a fair chance somewhere, it's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u30	Fortunately, not everyone is discriminated against. Fortunately, there are people who do everything in their power to contribute to Dutch society, but there are still dozens, hundreds of investigations, international, national and European, which prove that there is discrimination and that we need to tackle it. That's what we're gonna keep fighting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u32	Discrimination against companies by other companies is not a policy at all. The DENK Group wants this to be investigated. DENK wants an overview of how and in what way entrepreneurs are discriminated against and how this can be tackled. I would like a response from the Secretary of State, and I am considering a motion on this point. Dan Invest-NL, whose director Mr Wouter Bos says: 5 million and above, I will do my best to do so. This is something he, as a Social Democrat, should know that small businesses should be able to get these credits. In addition, there is Qredits that helps small businesses with 7.75% interest rates. It can't be. That's usury interest. Qredits must be addressed. Qredits must ensure that there is enough money at low interest rates to help small businesses. Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of business transfer. We have an ageing population. A lot of companies are going to stop, also because of the corona crisis. The most important thing is that we let these companies come into contact with young people, so that good business transfer takes place. This is good for integration, for society and for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. EZK is a very wide area. My time is limited. Therefore excuses in advance for the somewhat fragmentary approach and the lack of far-reaching reflections. We are talking about the climate growth fund and Groningen at other times in the Chamber, so I will leave that aside today. I do have a few comments that affect people in general and 50PLUS people in particular. I do so in the knowledge that there are connections with living and taxation, but that is no reason not to talk about it today or not to get answers. Energy poverty is a growing problem. The question is what is now the share of EZK's rulers in preventing energy poverty? Mrs Beckerman mentioned that a number of people now need to work more at home. I also said last time that older people are particularly affected by the gas tax, because they are at home all day. Now there are many more people who have to work at home. They notice that the stove has to burn all day, at a temperature that as you get older is also a little higher, in the average experience. This leads to a heavy burden and a problem with energy poverty. This does not mean that older people do not want to participate in the climate rules. They would also like to see their burdens reduced in this way. Then I come to the question that has been raised earlier today: why are so many roofs of rental flats still empty when it comes to solar panels? I have not yet read the amendment, but I understand that this amendment could provide for many more roofs to be equipped with solar panels from EZK. So let me put it this way: I hope I can sign with that amendment. But like GroenLinks, I must also say: see first and act then. Others have mentioned "belief." I don't want to connect that to this. It is precisely in the Netherlands that you can use the roofs on the rental flats to ensure that energy can be generated in the agglomerations. Then it doesn't have to be brought in from the outside. The same applies not only to the tenants, but also to the owners. When you are at an age, you are confronted with the fact that because of the age limit of 75 years you can no longer borrow for an adjustment of the home, while we believe that such an adjustment has its advantages for the next user. And despite the fact that some would like to say that it is different, not many elderly people have that kind of money on the couch or still in an old sock to spend directly. We therefore call for attention to be paid to this age limit. We have often asked for attention to be paid to the fact that a number of municipalities do not yet have enough publicity. We'll be living with the subject again. That includes the Minister of Foreign Affairs. As far as economic affairs is concerned, we are very concerned about the possibility of making sufficient use of the European funds in the near future. Because there are disturbing signals, you know the proverb "be careful what you wish for" that we in the Netherlands are getting a taste of our own dough, as I had unfortunately already announced. This cabinet wanted very much to use raising the retirement age, of the AOW age, as an export article; then restructurings had to be demanded from the economy. And what do we get in return? That the funds cannot be used because the Netherlands is not restructuring. At that time, I warned against losing our own sovereignty. Soon we will have to tackle the mortgage interest deduction and a number of other things if companies are to be able to access the money that Europe has reserved for that purpose. I would like to receive a response from the Minister and the State Secretary of EZK: how can they reassure companies? Because they have to be able to do with the amounts they need to solve the consequences of the corona crisis on their own business. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the corona crisis, but there's something about it. It might be surprising, but then I'll join the CBS. In recent years, the CBS has transformed the legacy of Jan Tinbergen into a "Centre Bashen Seniors," as it is called by many elderly people. Because the CBS makes statements about rich elderly people; people in a rental house are called upon to be rich because they have a paid-off home and that sort of thing. One element has remained somewhat underexplored, while that is actual. At the time, when I was talking about 2012-2013, the CBS published new figures on life expectancy. They were based on the assumption that the Dutch figures were too negative because we have good health care and life expectancy abroad was higher. In the OECD figures, we are not at the top of actual life expectancy, but at the bottom of something. The question is what has changed. 'Cause there's air between those life expectations. Then you can say that this is something for statisticians, but it is translated directly into the trajectory for increasing the AOW age. This means that things like the 2017-2018 flu wave should be incorporated in any way, but that also means that the air has to get out. In this respect, we are looking with great care at what the corona crisis produces for delayed regular care, which, according to a number of doctors, leads to a further reduction in life expectancy. So I'd like an answer from the Secretary of State and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can reassure Mr Graus. I signed up for 25 minutes, but I think it's gonna be around 15 minutes. My contribution is also on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Mr. Chairman. Over the last ten years, it has become increasingly difficult for Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises. There are about 2 million Dutch entrepreneurs, of which 1 million are zzp'ers. SMEs provide more than 4 million jobs, and two thirds of our income is earned in SMEs. However, SMEs have been the milk cow of the government for 10 years. This applies not only to SMEs, but also to our beautiful multinationals, which are being greeted with great awe outside the Netherlands, but which are being bullied away by lazi bureaucrats in The Hague. We should be proud of companies like Shell, Unilever, Philips and Heineken. These are companies that not only make high-quality products, but are also involved on all fronts in the top of the world. Instead, in the deep socialist Netherlands of recent years a disgust has arisen from business, a disgust of entrepreneurs and a disgust of success. This again translates into all kinds of vindictive laws and jealousy taxes. I call the dga tax, ozb, box 3, Vpb, ODE, VAT; it goes on and on. Unilever has already voted with his feet and has emigrated to London, despite all the state propaganda about the negative consequences of the Brexit. And Shell is also about to leave the sinking ship. I don't think the Cabinet is aware of the impact of moving Shell's head office to London. That is why I have a first question. Has the Cabinet mapped out how much it would cost society a year if Shell left? What is this minister going to do to prevent that? Mr. Chairman. Back to SMEs. Unilever and Shell may decide to move their headquarters. A supermarket, a catering establishment, an administration office or a construction company can't do that. SMEs are at the mercy of this cabinet without the opportunity to escape. This middle class cabinet has forgotten where jobs are created and where money is earned, namely in SMEs. In recent years, it has become increasingly unattractive to undertake. Taxes went up while the tax burden in the Netherlands is already among the highest in the world. Within the OECD countries, we are in a sad tenth place with a staggering tax burden of 39%. For the record, the OECD average is 34%, which is already very high. Energy prices went up to finance climate madness. Billions of subsidies went to subsidising the burning of biomass. Last year, this Minister defended the situation and, of course, I am talking about Minister Wiebes, who is still burning biomass on fire and on the sword. But I can assume that he has now calculated everything and has come to the conclusion that burning biomass is not very clever. Last week, Mr Van Raan and I adopted a motion calling for an end to the burning of biomass. I am very curious to see what steps this Minister is going to take before the elections to carry out this motion. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. The cost of disease continued to rise. And the bureaucracy from The Hague around disease is truly cross-border. In the carefully cultivated sadness industry called UWV, some 20,000 people now work. This is not only a net cost for society, but the UWV also creates a huge time and energy lag for SMEs. If a small company with an owner and four employees is suddenly confronted with the terrible situation that one of its employees is getting cancer, then the suffering is unheard of. First of all, of course, for the employee himself, but then also for the employer. The paperwork is huge, the reintegration obligation is unreal and the remaining owner and his or her employees get a burn-out because the work still needs to be done. What is left of the cabinet's intention to return payment in case of illness from two to one year? It is in the coalition agreement and it was the only bright spot for SMEs. Is this going to happen in this cabinet period or can we add it to the list of broken promises? On top of that, there were more rules from Brussels every year, so we had to deal with all kinds of privacy requirements and demands for the banks, which also limited funding opportunities. Where the banks used to stand alongside the entrepreneurs in their search for growth and success, the banks have now been reduced to cold paper pushers who are trying to keep their own streets clean, because they have to comply with the know-your-customer principle. And if you manage to fill in the piles of paperwork and provide all the supporting documentation, you'll be a month further and you'll usually get zero on the reekest. Then you have to arrange a pointless ISO certificate, fill out the UBO register and have a day job meeting the GDPR. Entrepreneurship is no longer a matter for SMEs in the Netherlands. Can the Minister indicate what he thinks of the financing problem in SMEs? What opportunities does he see to solve this? The increase in regulatory pressure has been enormous in recent years. Both SMEs-Netherlands and ONL have repeatedly drawn attention to this, but nothing is happening. In fact, bureaucracy only increased. And the bureaucracy of this cabinet is not free. SMEs-The Netherlands calculated that this cabinet has led to an increase in the regulatory burden of no less than EUR 1.15 billion per year. Can the Minister explain to me how he's going to stop this expensive rule rain? I understand why the bureaucracy has exploded. Indeed, there is virtually no one in the cabinet, nor in the coalition groups, which has any connection with SMEs. I'm hearing a protest right now. Then I have to make an exception, I understand. Almost no one has ever had a company of their own and has found out for themselves how incredibly absurd the rules that this cabinet produces are. And that is a pity, because this abstract, world-frequent and bureaucratic approach leads to a brake on SMEs. It leads to a brake on development and ultimately to a brake on success. And that translates into a downward spiral where enterprising people start to wonder what they're all doing for. Why would you take that chance? Why would you work 80 hours a week? Why would you have to earn your own pension? Why would you risk all your savings? Why would you want to be an entrepreneur in a country with a cabinet that comes up with so many nonsensical rules that you end up getting a fine for success? The crucial error of this cabinet is that the government thinks that the government should encourage an entrepreneur through subsidies and regulations. Through the RVO, the most patronising grants and incentive programmes on SMEs are paid out, from the WBSO to innovation financing, from sustainability initiatives to a National Growth Fund. And also all kinds of new laws lead to additional bureaucracy: the Digital Government Act, Gambling, Property Act, so on and so on. When are we going to stop letting civil servants decide how an entrepreneur should run his business? Why don't we just stop with all these bullshit schemes and just lower the tax burden? I wonder what the Minister thinks of this idea. The VVD used to think the same thing. For the record, it's not just from this ministry. The problem is the accumulation of all measures. Next week the debate on the Tax Plan will be on the agenda, so I will save you all my complaints about the dga tax, the home and non-housing ozb, the villataks, the self-employed deduction, the box 3 story, just like last year, by the way. But the business climate is not getting any better. Yeah, I'm gonna give something away. I am therefore curious whether anyone in the cabinet is keeping track of the results of all these different measures from the different ministries. Or is every minister just going to be his or her own divine process? I understand that Mr Aartsen has tabled a motion to counter this accumulation. I'm very curious about that motion and if possible I can sign it. Mr. Chairman. In March, the corona crisis was added to that. Of course, everyone suffers from the corona crisis, perhaps not even so much from the virus itself, but from the corona measures taken by this cabinet. But some groups are really screwed. There are large groups of people who are threatened in their lives and who risk losing their business. In the hospitality sector, it is a bloodbath and more than half of the catering companies are in danger of going bankrupt. The same doom scenario currently applies to many sectors in SMEs. It's good to think about that. We all get our salary every month, like all officials in The Hague, and holiday money, a thirteenth month, an end-of-year bonus; it's all guaranteed. We don't have to worry about our pension and civil servants can hardly be fired, so the risk is zero. I have to say that this also applies to me, because I am glad that I finally have a little pension. It's never been like that until now. We already knew that an entrepreneur doesn't have any of this. It is well known that an entrepreneur is always at risk of losing everything. But that is normally rewarded with freedom, success and profit. But now that the government decides that whole sectors should remain closed, that changes the situation. This is not a normal business risk and I therefore believe that the government is far out of line by deciding that all the entrepreneurs are actually going to go down. This is not a corona debate and I remember what the President said earlier, so I will keep my criticism until this afternoon's corona debate. But I insist that the measures are disproportionate and that the medical, social, cultural and economic collateral damage is enormous. I find it absolutely unreasonable to take the account of this cabinet's failing corona policy fully into account for SMEs. The various support packages are large, but they are characterised by a lack of realism and red tape. Customisation seems to be completely lacking, while no company is the same, and there are huge differences within the sectors as well. At a bowling alley, the corona measures reduce sales in winter and at a beach tent just in summer. The bumping with reference periods, third-party statements and SBI codes was really toe-curving, and it just seems to get worse. Riskless bureaucrats have seized power. Perhaps it is still best to illustrate that with an example, if I may be so bold. For example, a tennis centre has three sources of income. Firstly, the rental of tennis courts, secondly, the catering industry, thirdly, the provision of training. The job rental is divided into fixed contracts for a longer period of time, occasional job rental and the organisation of competitions. In March, April and May, everything was closed. That was extremely bad, but at least it was clear. At the moment, the situation is much more complicated. You can rent a job, but the competition can't, because the virus obviously knows if you're playing free or playing a game. And the catering business is closed. The fixed contracts are paid long in advance and therefore the liquidity seems to be in order, but at the same time you get a problem with the reference period for the decline in sales. Because part of the turnover falls away, namely the catering industry, the possibility to pay the daily costs is also lost, while the costs do not go down, because the business has to stay open because the job hire continues. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that this kind of businessman is getting a massive burn-out from this cabinet. The TOGS, the Tozo, the NOW: they are all bureaucratic freaks, which drives the average SMEs crazy. Why can't we handle support packages in a realistic way and just deliver customization? Why isn't the starting point that we want to ensure that the entrepreneur is just fully compensated for the intervention that the government has done? Otherwise just stop the demonstrable non-working corona measures! This would be the right support for SMEs. Mr. Chairman. What is happening now is that statistically it is all over for the most affected entrepreneurs. They're going bankrupt. And the cabinet is looking away. Fear reigns. While reporting daily how many people are on the ic, no one seems to care that the third wave will mainly consist of SMEs who will have to close down their business. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to Europe. The EU corona fund has EUR 750 billion. No one understands why, in such a severe crisis, we have transferred our money to Europe. Anyway, it happened. Of this 750 billion, about 6 billion is available to Dutch industry, but thanks to the tough negotiations that our Prime Minister has conducted in Brussels, there are so many demands that there is little chance of us seeing any of that money back. For example, Brussels, in return for giving back our own money, demands that we further limit mortgage interest rates and that we amend tax rules for large companies. This can't be happening. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to recover our own money without having to jump through all kinds of euro hoops. Mr. Chairman. Then China and the Dutch retail trade. Last year we talked extensively about China, and this has already been mentioned in the budget for external trade and development cooperation. There is a tough war going on between China and our own SMEs, with our own retailers, and we are going to lose them, because there is no level playing field. For the record, once again the reasons why there is no level playing field. China does not comply with WTO rules, nor with OECD standards. Chinese companies can buy our companies to their heart's content, but they can't. The Chinese government is sponsoring Chinese companies without scruples with state aid and there is widespread patent and intellectual property infringement. Marks are forged and counterfeit products are offered for a fraction of the price on Alibaba. No import duties are paid under the €150. Then you also have the postal agreement, which states that China is a developing country, which makes them hardly pay transport costs. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the Minister what he has done in the past year to protect Dutch business from China. This is particularly important because China no longer has a corona and is on the take-over path. Several beautiful Dutch companies are now threatening to fall prey to Chinese hijackers. Can the Minister indicate if he sees this as a problem? And if so, does he have an idea how big the problem is and what he's going to do about it? How are we going to ensure that production will just take place locally in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Then climate and energy. The nitrogen gate is still there, just like the CO madness, the self-created pfas problem and the climate religion. The entrepreneurs who survive the corona measures will soon be able to get their breasts wet. The Netherlands has no nitrogen problem, no pfas problem and no CO problem either. We have an administrative problem and the government once again proves to be the biggest enemy of the entrepreneur. Then there's the energy transition. Sustainability is fine, but in a technically and economically sound way. I have mentioned the subsidy on biomass before. We know that this leads to more fine dust and CO2 emissions and that this results in less efficiency. Can the Minister promise to stop this as soon as possible? I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yeah, I see two. Mr Sienot and then Mr Van der Lee. Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr Van der Lee may first, because mine is not specifically concerned with this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u39	Fine. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u40	I hesitated for a moment, but I want to know why all these problems are systematically denied. I am referring to the problems which are really serious and which Mr Van Haga and also the Forum for Democracy cannot ignore. Because of the way we deal with our raw materials, with flora and fauna, with the world of life and with the climate, it will be impossible for our children and grandchildren to live a normal life on this planet. Why are all these problems systematically denied? And why do you think companies can flourish without problems? What world do you live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u41	That is a rather general question: what world do you live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u42	I like the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yeah, it's a nice question. I think in the same world as you. I think I might approach the problems a little bit more technically than you and then I come to the conclusion that stopping natural gas is not good for the environment, that closing state-of-the-art coal plants is not good for the environment, that it might be wiser for the environment to switch to nuclear energy and that burning biomass is completely idiotic if you want to work for a better environment. In that respect, I think we really do live in the same world and make proposals with the same good intentions. But apparently we don't feel the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u44	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Haga on his eighth place at the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u45	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u46	You say you're an entrepreneur in politics, and then I notice you're letting down entrepreneurs. The Forum for Democracy is getting away from all the climate problems. What do you say to entrepreneurs who are worried about the drought? Take all the farmers who really have a lot of problems with that. Or take gardeners who see thick hailstones falling through their greenhouses. Take insurers who can hardly pay the damages anymore. Are you sure you're gonna let all these entrepreneurs down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u47	I don't understand this question at all. We don't leave any entrepreneurs behind, but we don't hunt them for bizarre climate costs either. Look, I want to go a long way with you. I welcome any technical improvement, but we must put it in a spreadsheet and then see what is good and what is not good. For example, a heat pump is not good, because there is no return on it, and double glazing might be. You're gonna have to put all that in your spreadsheet. For the time being, I see in your party more of a kind of religious approach to the climate problem, making you do all kinds of stupid things, which cost a lot of money but not necessarily lead to the CO reduction desired by your party for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u48	I can see that Mr Van Haga is abandoning entrepreneurs. The religion he always talks about is then confessed by De Nederlandsche Bank, by the Economic and Social Council, by the Planning Office for the Environment, a really huge green church. I wouldn't take care of that. I think it is much more important to note that Dutch companies want to lead the way and tap into a global market in building comfortable houses, in building greener cities, in ensuring clean air. I get the feeling that you're trying to keep all those entrepreneurs away from opportunities and those entrepreneurs trapped in the fossil age. Is that really what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u49	Yeah, look, there's a lot of assumption in that question. Progress is good. If we can generate clean energy, we have to do it mostly. If we table a motion for a nuclear power plant, I assume you will support it, because that is extremely clean. For the rest, I'm sticking to the fact that you have to approach it in a technically sound way. Your party doesn't exactly do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u50	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u51	Actually, I've already said it. Otherwise, I'm gonna repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yeah, I guess so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u53	Maybe we should talk outside this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u54	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u55	It is really very important for people to understand that certain measures are really bad for the environment. Those biomass plants in particular are a good example. Until recently, everyone was lyrical about the biomass plant. Minister Wiebes told a story last year about a desert in which he was planting a tree. He was gonna cut it off. That was fun, circular, beautiful. And now he realizes that it's just a big pacifier and that it's really stupid... Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u56	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u57	Okay. Friend and enemy are amazed at the fact that the Netherlands is getting rid of natural gas, while even non-technists know that methane is the cleanest fossil fuel and we possess it in abundance. Perhaps in addition to the demand of just now: in the meantime, you must of course continue to produce natural gas. That is very clean, much cleaner than all the options you have put forward. As a transition fuel, natural gas is indispensable. We should nurture and maintain our gas infrastructure, especially as long as it is uncertain what will become the energy carrier of the future. This cabinet is doing exactly the opposite. The Netherlands is full of windmills and solar fields, which are more of a problem than a solution because of the unpredictable contribution to the electricity grid. Moreover, the energy contribution of a solar field is negligible and the damage to the landscape and the economy is enormous. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The problems outlined in this budget treatment are all due to the role of the government. The cabinet opts for a large, cumbersome, everything-determinating and often completely unpredictable government with a lot of rules and a lot of interference. That's exactly what this is all about. Do we want to be able to decide for ourselves how we organise our lives or our business, or do we want the government to do that for us? Do we want that risk-avoiding bureaucrats to be able to decide that whole sectors are going down, because the same bureaucrats in the years before have cut back on care and therefore a capacity problem has arisen? Let us therefore learn one thing from this corona crisis: the interests of SMEs are being widely squandered. This is because in 2017 we voted for people who have little sense of SMEs. That is also apparent from their actions. I do not think this is going to change in the last few months of this cabinet period, so I hope for a fresh wind after the 2021 elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u58	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u59	If it is right, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Secretary of State will continue answering the questions on Thursday. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State.
