ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance: Taxation and Tax Administration to the First Chamber. I repeat that the fixed interrupt microphones, which are operated by hand, have been replaced by a microphone that can be operated by the foot. It's right there. I would also like to inform Members that if you submit a motion, you will have to read the text yourself and then put this motion on the bench to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The GroenLinks Group supports the choice of the cabinet to issue a full government guarantee on Dutch supply credit insurance. The importance of this type of insurance for the economy, businesses and jobs is also evident to us, especially now. Once again, this is a very substantial intervention with considerable budgetary implications, as shown by the second supplementary amendment to the budget for finance. Many questions have already been asked about this proposal of the cabinet in the Lower House, sometimes now answered. The rest will come later. We can largely justify that. If I see correctly, the Secretary of State will soon inform the Chambers about this reinsurance facility, once the European Commission has delivered its opinion. Then the Secretary of State also sends the draft contracts to the Chamber and other relevant information. Is that correct, Secretary of State? Is that how it goes? For the moment, I have questions on two parts. Firstly, the currently foreseen balance of premium income, the deduction of costs, and the loss of revenue from recovery is now budgeted at EUR 1 billion; we read the legislative proposal. I understand that these are estimates that are more than usual uncertain about the crisis that is now taking place. This uncertainty concerns in particular the damage and the proceeds of recovery. As far as premium income is concerned, there is probably more certainty, more fixed base underground. With this facility, that premium income now belongs to the State. These are the current premiums on policies already issued, as well as premiums for new policies. My question is this. The insurers are now going to issue these new policies. So how does the new premium come about now that the State's guarantee is in operation? I try to understand this as well, because on the one hand the risk profile of the insured damage has increased in such a way that the insurance was not offered without guarantee, but on the other hand the risk profile is nil because of the State guarantee. So what exactly is going to happen here? Does it make sense, for example, to ask the Secretary of State, for the duration of the guarantee as a guideline, to use the standing premium scheme and to make it part of the agreements with the re-insurers? Is that how it is? This is also important in terms of market conditions. That point has already been changed in the House of Representatives. My point here is that this is also very relevant to the revenue of the State. The importance of this depends, in turn, on the relationship between the standing policies and what is new under the umbrella of this guarantee. What exactly are the relationships in this respect? How material is the question of new premiums for the new policies? In short, what is the assumption of the Secretary of State here? What is the sum of the contributions received? My second and final question concerns the one billion euros. Let us look at that amount for the sake of convenience. The key question is, of course, where does it land? The first preference of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is for this account to be placed with the sector itself. After all, the State maintains a market on which it will be able to return to later. However, the Secretary of State is holding off the boat here and stated yesterday in both the Lower House and in the written reply that the cabinet will return to it in the autumn. My group understands that the cabinet does not now have a fully prepared answer to that question, and that is not the intention of my question now. However, I would like to ask for clarification on the principles which the cabinet will now apply. Of course, this does not only apply to this facility, but also to the whole emergency package as it stands. Mr Van Gurp also mentioned it earlier in the first debate this afternoon on the second supplementary budget for Social Affairs. This issue, simply referred to as 'who pays for the crisis', is very important. See also the outcome of the credit crisis and the euro crisis, in which citizens and the public sector were mainly addressed at all costs. They are the ones who enable the deep pockets of the Minister of Finance from which we can now pay for this aid operation. Since March, the cabinet has chosen to keep arrangements broad and simple, without too specific conditions in advance and without a guideline on the financing of the ex-post emergency measures. My group has accepted that, for reasons of speed, the first emergency package was put together in this way. But now it becomes more apparent that "temporary" is a stretchy concept. In short, we are still working on this. The economic impact can be particularly high, see "the Great Lockdown" from the IMF last week. There is a good chance that parts of the emergency package will have to be extended by the summer. Meanwhile, the cabinet is probably in the process of directly supporting larger companies like KLM. Then the question really is: what conditions are being imposed on it? What is important to the cabinet: participating in the sustainable transition from the Paris Agreement? As far as we're concerned, please! Exclusion of participation in a tax haven? Seems obvious to me. No bonuses, no dividends? Again, you have to do it. In short, where will the account be deposited? What is conditionality? What is the framework from which the cabinet now intends to operate in the near future? Then how does it fit in with the compensation of the damage resulting from the current reinsurance scheme of EUR 1 billion? The Secretary of State says, again, that he will come back to this in the fall. That is too late for my group. The cabinet will have to explain in the near future how it intends to answer the next political question from the account of the crisis and what that means for this facility today, for future interventions and for possible extension of the emergency package. We need clarity, and I think that this also applies to the cabinet itself, if it is to be able to make a firm decision in the coming months. As far as we are concerned, President-Director Knot of DNB was quite right last week: what is now called liquidity support based on temporaryity will inevitably become a solvency issue in parts of the market, with the prospect of the crisis as outlined. Then the difficult question is: who do you support and who doesn't? Under what conditions? Who's paying what? In the short term, we would like to see this framework of directional statements from the cabinet. Because if conditions are not set at the front, it is all the more important that the cabinet makes timely choices as to where the back of the bill falls. The cabinet is not doing either at the moment. In the heat of this moment, that is understandable, but not sustainable. Assuming that in the first round the Secretary of State fully answers my comments and I do not have to speak twice, I wish him and the cabinet, and certainly also the officials of the Ministry of Finance, a great deal of health and wisdom at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u5	Mr President, thank you. Let me start by echoing Mr Vendrik's last words on a great deal of health and wisdom. The same applies to everyone here. My group had doubts as to whether we should now debate this in plenary. It is also clear to my group that the proposal was born of economic need and that speed of action is needed. In addition, more than 50 questions were asked in the Lower House. But in addition to speed, there is also a need for care in these times of corona and we must, of course, also take our role as legislator seriously now and, in doubt, avoid a plenary debate. For my group, that doubt does not concern the purpose of the legislative proposal: to avoid further job losses due to the fact that the insurance of supplier's credits falls to a large extent, and thus also the confidence in that part of the market. After all, many companies depend on loans. Nor do we necessarily disagree with the means chosen. Public intervention by guaranteeing risks through reinsurance is likely to be inevitable. However, the doubt is more in the way in which this is done, namely by laying down the account for this necessary intervention with the taxpayer without the government wanting to give any insight into the fact that at least a large part of this account can later be recovered from those private parties or that part of the business that is helped by it. My colleague, Mr Vendrik, has just pointed this out. In this case too, the strength of the repetition applies. Of course, we support the objective of maintaining employment as much as possible, but unlike, for example, the NOW scheme, this objective is not directly served here, but only indirectly, by providing a solution to the problem of defaults between companies and the payment risks associated with credit insurers. The budgetary impact of this is not small, even at these times, when the amounts sometimes make you dizzy. It concerns guarantees from the State of 12 billion and a written-in loss of 1.4 billion. So there is indeed a public burden here, whereas the benefits were rather private. That wrings. Would it not be logical, I would ask the Minister, to try to achieve a more balanced distribution of benefits and burdens, not by allowing the taxpayer to bear the costs, but by the market, which is now temporarily taken over by the State, that is to say by the business community? We have also asked this question in the written round, but we do not really get an answer to it. What does the Secretary of State actually think? What does he really think is not reasonable about this proposal that this account should ultimately be deposited with the business community? And if he thinks it is a reasonable proposal, why is he not prepared to make a concrete commitment on this issue? For my group, this is really a crucial point. The government must do what is necessary at this time in order to save the economy and preserve jobs, but perhaps by doing so we will help companies that have previously made healthy profits, and which may continue to do so in the future thanks to state aid. Then it is not too much to ask for these companies to pay back this aid at a later stage, rather than having the bill placed on the teachers, on the care staff, on the staff of supermarkets and on everyone else in this country who pays taxes. I would like to hear a clear response from the Secretary of State, because I do not think it really has to be so complicated. Mr. Chairman. There is also a lack of clarity in my group as to what exactly is the position of credit insurers with regard to the legislative proposal. What would it mean to them if these measures were not taken? Will the solvency of these insurers be compromised, for example? If they are in financial difficulties, I ask the Secretary of State. My group is not clear why the government says that the credit insurers themselves do not benefit from this measure, this massive state aid. It seems to me that they obviously benefit from this. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, I would also like to ask my group whether the Secretary of State will be able to include the position and role of insurers in our economy in general in the evaluation of this intervention. My colleague from GroenLinks also mentioned the evaluation. This time is, of course, a very exceptional time, but it is not the first time that the State has acted as a lifesaver, also in relation to the insurance business. And it may not be the last time either. That raises fundamental questions. As has also been pointed out in the House of Representatives, it now appears that the provision of supplier's credits is an important utility for our economy as a whole. However, this function has so far been carried out by private insurers, who thus made considerable profits. If things go wrong, however, the State intervenes. As before with the banks, therefore, there seems to be a situation in which the fulfilment of an important utility creates large private profits, but in which the State then socialises losses, or at least potential losses. My group considers that to be a real problem. Therefore, not only should the costs of the current operation be borne by the business community, but the more fundamental question should also be asked as to whether this utility should always be left to the market. I know that questions have already been asked about this on the other side of the House, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State to be a little more generous with his reflections on this matter than has been the case so far. Could he at least undertake to include this in the evaluation mentioned? Of course, as always, even in this case, with the new Secretary of State, we look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mrs Sent on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Cabinet on the pace and strength of its efforts to reduce the depth of the economic crisis. I would like to congratulate the Ministry on the speed with which our questions on both the previous extension of export credit insurance and on the reinsurance of supplier credits have been answered. The result of this pace is that the answers are not always entirely convincing. That is why I am pleased that we can discuss this in plenary today. I do wonder to what extent there are oral options to provide the desired clarity. So I would also like to propose that a number of points be clarified later in a letter, but that is where I come to the three points that need further clarification as far as we are concerned. The first concerns public-private burden-sharing. In the answers to the questions raised, I read that this is only known once the European Commission has given its consent and that further consideration will be given in the autumn. That's taking my group a while. We would like to be promised by the Secretary of State to clarify public-private burden-sharing in the shortest possible time, to share the calculation with our Chamber after the European Commission has given its consent and to indicate a date on which, according to the Secretary of State, the Chamber can be informed of this. The other point that has been raised by the two previous speakers is the accumulation of risks for the public authorities. What is the total size of the guarantee? What is the total size of the expected loss? On this point, the government writes in the note following the report that the scenarios and estimates are surrounded and further checked. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State when these checks have been completed and when he thinks he can give further information to our Chamber on the calculations concerning the extent of the guarantee and the extent of the expected loss. We do not want to wait until the autumn. We hope to be informed by the Secretary of State at the shortest possible time. I'm asking him when he expects to be able to do that. Finally, in the written questions, we asked for attention to be paid to the tax incentives relating to the financing of companies with debt and equity and the asymmetry contained therein. It was with great pleasure that earlier today I reminded the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment of the motion he had tabled as a member of the House of Representatives. There is an Advisory Committee on the Taxation of Multinationals. He has delivered an opinion on this. In the answers to our questions, I read that the cabinet intends to respond before the summer. The request which I made this morning to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and which he will pass on, but which I can now refer directly to the Secretary of State, is whether he will also inform our Chamber in the shortest possible time. As soon as that reaction is received, we would also like to receive a copy of it. That brings me to the end of my speech and I thank the Secretary of State for the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Otten from the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. Today, for the second time this month, we are voting on economic emergency packages in connection with the corona crisis. We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are wondering whether the current emergency packages are sufficiently large. We are even more concerned about the timely implementation of the measures, as we indicated earlier this afternoon to Minister Koolmees and Secretary of State Van Ark. The emergency package is now on the agenda for additional possibilities for reinsurance of supplier credits. This is an essential measure, which is very important for the liquidity of SMEs in particular, especially in this time of crisis. It is now necessary to prevent suppliers from asking their customers for advance payments, as this would have a strong crisis-enhancing effect. Our group therefore welcomes the measures which the cabinet intends to take. We are also pleased that the cabinet is showing the necessary strength in this crisis. Mr. Chairman. But we are now mainly working on all kinds of patchwork to mitigate the effects of this corona crisis. The big question is of course what the exit strategy will be, because the Dutch economy will go all the way to the philistines if this takes a long time. We have to be careful that the cure isn't starting to get any worse than the ailment. A phased, cautious, controlled phasing-out of the lockdown measures seems therefore appropriate in this respect. We are therefore waiting for the Prime Minister's press conference tonight with great interest. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also thought about what needs to be done in the Netherlands at EU level to deal with the new economic reality of the post-corona era. We have heard a lot in recent weeks about coronabonds, where the Netherlands should guarantee the enormous and fast-growing Italian sovereign debt, which is already 2,500 billion and goes through the crisis towards 3,000 billion. We understand that Minister Hoekstra is not waiting for this; neither are we. But it is now important to take a helicopter view to see what needs to be done in this difficult situation to keep the Dutch economy going. How, as it were, we take out insurance for the entire Dutch economy, is the question. You can, and I'll explain how. Mr. Chairman. If we look at Dutch public debt in a European perspective, we see that it is among the lowest in the euro area, with 47% of GDP. Much lower than countries such as Italy and France, even Germany has a debt of 60% of GDP, and that is, of course, due to all the measures that need to be taken in all countries. Most countries therefore even go towards the 100%. It's all coming up fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u10	I have a question. In preparing this specific bill, questions were put by SP, GroenLinks and PvdA, not by the Otten Group. This is specifically about re-insuring supplier credits, a good measure for SMEs, which has been explained. The Otten Group has agreed and has only requested 10 minutes' speaking time. Who do you do a favor with this? Because you already agree with the proposal, and we are talking here about supplier credits. Why do we do that in this way, and why do you choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u11	Mr Van der Linden first chose not to take part in the debate on the temporary law two weeks ago, and then took an active part. Everyone is free to ask for speaking time. It was our choice as a group to explain here as well what we think is needed in a larger context for the Dutch economy. Because things aren't going well, and they're extraordinary times. So it is not so exceptional that I am speaking about this now. I will come back to the legislation in question in a moment. I shall continue my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u12	I have one more question. That is indeed interesting, and that calls for a much larger debate, but should we not have a separate debate on this? Then each group can prepare itself for that and then we can discuss it constructively in order to share our vision. Now there are a lot of people here who have prepared for those supplier credits. Mr Otten also believes that it would benefit the debate if we could all prepare ourselves well to have the debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u13	I would certainly welcome such a debate, but we are now talking about export credits, also in a wider context, so I will continue my speech. It will be clear to you in a moment. I have already said that our national debt is very low in the euro area. Of course, Mr Vijlbrief has also worked in the Eurogroup; he knows all this much better than I do. The following is essential in the current corona crisis, but it is also related to this export insurance issue. The private debt of the Netherlands, the Dutch private sector and the Dutch households, is among the highest in the whole euro area by 102%. In almost no country is it that high. So we see a huge mismatch between government debt and private debt. In Italy, that is exactly the other way around. There the private debt is around 57%, around the euro area average, and the public debt is 150%. So we are in this crisis with a fatal mismatch. But with the power that the cabinet has recently shown, I think we can find a solution to that. What we need now is, as it were, a put option against what awaits us economically in the coming years: a corona credit insurance for the whole of the Netherlands. What the Dutch economy now needs to do is to protect us from the inevitable gigantic developments that are about to rise. A departure from the euro area has become unrealistic in the current situation and costs the Netherlands astronomical amounts. For example, just look at the TARGET2 claims of 100 billion, which the Netherlands still has in southern Italy. The time for departure from the euro area may have come earlier, during the Greek crisis, but that opportunity has now been lost and the political will is also lacking. Mr. Chairman. I am very much in favour of austerity, but the current budgetary policy of the Rutte cabinet is far from rational in view of the current situation and the corona crisis. Now that interest rates are still low, as crazy as that sounds, we need, as it were, to create some kind of insurance by increasing our public debt, starting with, for example, 100 billion. But do so quickly, before interest rises as a result of global debt and huge money creation by central banks. If the money doesn't cost anything, you have to borrow and not until later, when the interest rate is much higher than the current level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u14	Mr President, I would nevertheless like to support the comment made by the Forum for Democracy Group that this is out of order. I find this an interesting argument, but it is now about the reinsurance of supplier appropriations. In my speech, I would have liked to focus on all kinds of other issues relating to the corona crisis and the economic crisis as a result, but that is not the issue at the moment. I would say that we should keep to the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u15	Mr. Otten, you're hearing what the colleagues are saying. Pursuant to Rule 94 (1), I would like to call on you to keep to the subject of the debate. Are you capable of that? Would you do that, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u16	I will conclude my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u17	It is about the reinsurance supplier's crisis measure. I kindly ask you to stick to this subject in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which we have agreed on here together. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u18	Credit insurance is, of course, necessary, because, above all, business debt is growing very much now. That is why we have made this argument. A macroeconomic solution must be achieved. We can then use the public debt to settle debts, such as consumer debts, mortgage debts and corporate debts, so that people can repay the credit insurer. But you could also think of tax debts, student debts, and perhaps also Mr Kox, I am looking at certain rent debts. We therefore call on the government to look into this and see whether certain investigations can be carried out. We are also considering tabling a motion on this in the second term. Mr President, I will conclude. As I said, these are extraordinary times. There's still a lot coming for us. There is also an urgent need to look beyond the patchwork from day to day and to be able to put in a greater perspective how as a Dutch economy we can make ourselves more robust for the turbulent times that are coming towards us. In this context, we are in favour of the proposal for a directive on credit insurance and we are most likely to vote in favour of it. We are just waiting for the Secretary of State's reply, and look forward to the State Secretary's response in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u20	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 35433, second incidental supplementary budget on COOVID-19 crisis measure reinsurance supplier appropriations. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna sit tight. That's not out of disrespect for the Chamber. I do that in the House of Representatives, because I have some back problems and can hardly stand for long. I hope you don't blame me. I'll try to make up for the quality of the answers. Thanks for the input. They sometimes say, "You feel broad support." I feel broad support for the cabinet's intentions here. It also raises questions, but that is also right. I must honestly say that I was double on this debate. Yes, it is busy and then a debate takes time. But I was actually happy with it, just like in the House of Representatives, because it gave me the opportunity to explain what we are actually doing here. We are talking about 12 billion in guarantees. So it's about something; it's not a little thing. When I became Secretary of State, I thought I'd spend my days trying to get the IRS into quiet waters. In the meantime, I am running out of days, which seems to be a kind of fate to me, with the fight against crises. So that's what we do with this one. I do so with great pleasure, not because it is pleasant to be in a crisis, certainly not in this one, because I think it is a nasty period, but because it is nice to be able to work on the economy at a time when I am very worried about it. At the end of the debate, I will say a few words about the contribution of Mr Otten, who has said a great deal about this. Supplier credit is a fascinating subject. Pretty much nobody actually knows what it is. I tried to explain it on television using the fashion store. The fashion store has a collection that he's trying to sell, but it's going to be pretty tricky at this time. But the fashion shop has to buy a new collection, because in the autumn you can no longer sell zoom leather. That store usually buys a new collection. You usually do that on supplier credit. You get delivered and then you only have to pay six to eight weeks later. That's what the supplier's credit is for. That's actually how the system works. That's insured by credit insurers. What's going on now? I was simply trying to explain that to television viewers. We are simply struck by a huge shock. As a theoretical economist, I am not at the moment, but I am also trying to say a little bit. This shock is caused by a lot of market failure on the insurance market, which is normally not there. Indeed, all risks arising for insurers are correlated. That's always very annoying. That is also the case with storm damage and water shortage. These things are all very difficult to insure on the private market. That's what's happening here. That's the first problem. The second problem is that this insurer no longer knows what the good store and the bad store is and what the good supplier and the bad supplier is. So, yeah, he's getting a little chilly. What's the credit insurance company gonna do if we don't do something? Then he withdraws from this market and says, "I quit." He can also raise his prices tremendously... that is the alternative... but mostly it are policies in which prices are fixed for a long time. But even if he did, he would of course cause great problems. You must imagine that, if that were to happen, you would really talk about the squatting and squeaking to a halt of the economy. I use harsh words here, but that's really what's happening. Supplier credits are a kind of lubricating oil in the machine. In my opinion, I am passionate about that; you also hear that from how I talk about it, the cabinet had to intervene because it is really about a lot. It concerns 15,000 suppliers in the Netherlands who can make use of this. It concerns many, many customers of those suppliers, and so it is a lot of jobs. I had an intensive debate in the House of Representatives with Mr Van Apeldoorn's spirit. Then I tried to make it as clear as possible that this is not about saving insurers or subsidising insurers. I shall come back to that in a moment, but this is about saving the jobs of the people in the shops. There are very large industrial companies in the south of the country that everyone knows, but there is also another company, perhaps less known, that uses a supplier credit of 1.5 to 2 billion. If that can't be used anymore, that company is in trouble. So there are problems in the insurance market. The government has no choice but to intervene very firmly. We didn't do that firmly in 2009, 2010. At that time we had an arrangement, namely the TASK, but it was not used. That was a big failure. We have now decided to go in with everything we have, just to say it popularly. That is exactly what Mr Otten has just said. That is exactly what the government must do in this situation: go broad. I believe that this was also widely supported by the members of your Chamber. And yet some people have a sense of justice. That was the case last week in the House of Representatives and so it is again here. Is the division of this right? Where do the lusts and the burdens fall? And who is actually paying for that market failure? I understand those feelings. I think we had a very good debate on this last week in the House of Representatives, and it now came back to the speeches made by Mr Vendrik, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mrs Sent. I would like to answer those questions with a triple of things that we are going to report to the Chamber. Let's see if that helps with this feeling. If we have an agreement from the European Commission, which I hope to have in a few weeks' time, this arrangement can enter into force as soon as possible. I have already promised the House of Representatives, but I would also like to promise it to your Chamber, that we will send a comprehensive overview of the things that Mrs Sent asked for in particular. What is the situation with regard to today's regulation on public-private burden-sharing? And what about the premiums? Mr Vendrik asked for it. What are the scenarios and the risks? That's what's going on in that letter. That's gonna be an elaborate letter. That's not the letter Mr.Vendrik and Mr.Van Apeldoorn just asked for, but it does give the precise overview of the arrangement that I think was asked for. It also deals with the accumulation of risks, which Mrs Sent has inflicted. That's letter one. Then letter two. I know that colleagues in the cabinet as we speak are working on a framework that the cabinet intends to use when generally supporting companies. Mr Vendrik also extended the scope. He said this isn't just about insurance companies, and he's right. The cabinet is developing a broader framework of support, as it is called, with conditions for support. I really would not like to say anything about this, because that is really a letter from colleagues in the cabinet, but it is being worked on. That letter has been announced in the Lower House and will shortly be sent to the Lower House and also to your Chamber, I presume. That's the second letter, the broad letter. Then there is the annoying point, which followed point, in good Dutch, about the risk of the insurers. I said about this in the House of Representatives, following a motion by the Socialist Party: "Don't ask me to tell you that I am going to tell the insurers that I am going to bear these costs, that 1 billion of possible damage we are suffering. It's too soon. I can't put it that way right now, but I might be able to tell you what my starting points are." I have been thinking about this in connection with Mr Vendrik's contribution. The starting point might be that you're going to study carefully who actually ran the risks here, that you're going to study carefully how that would have been in a situation without government intervention, and that you're going to try to put the bill where it belongs. But I really can't do that in a week. I have also tried to make that clear in the House of Representatives. This requires a good analysis of the insurance market, and we need to be in calmer waters in order to be able to do it, for example in the autumn. This may have been perceived by some as holding back, but that is not intended to give this, said in The Hague, a big move in the future. I say this firstly because we are now putting out the fire, and secondly because we really need time for that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u22	I have another question for the Secretary of State. He indicated: if this is adopted, I will go to the European Commission to see if I can introduce it from her. What if the European Commission says: no, it can't? Can you outline, for our consideration, the scenario that we have to take into account, so if the European Commission says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u23	I think I can reassure Mr van der Linden. A similar scheme was introduced in Germany and approved by the Commission. The what-if question is therefore limited to a rather small risk here. If that risk were to exist, it could be that the Commission is saying that we still have some work to do on this or that. And if I have to work on this or that, so on the terms, then of course I have to go back to Parliament to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u24	Mr Van Apeldoorn is interrupting, or am I mistaken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u25	You've got that right, Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking. Let me get this straight. The Secretary of State suggested that my colleague Alkaya's motion was in the Lower House to tell the insurers, but that was not the operative part of the motion. The operative part of the motion was to deposit that account with industry in general. Then it will later be possible to find out which part of the business sector this concerns. But the point is that the bill ends up in the hands of the business that has benefited from it and not in the hands of the taxpayer. That, in my view, was the thrust of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr van Apeldoorn, you need to keep pressing the button, because sometimes you fall out and we do not want to miss anything of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u27	I got it, but I was close.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u28	If it doesn't bother the Service Report and Editorial, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u29	This interruption by Mr Van Apeldoorn indicates precisely the difficulty, or the puzzle problem. The question is who benefits from this intervention by the government. I shall come back to Mr Vendrik's precise questions on policies. What we are doing with the insurers is that we are in fact taking over the policies from 1 January. We're freezing their wallet, and they're running it for us for another year. We collect the premiums and we pay advice to them to carry it out. That's it, that's what we do. Do the insurance companies benefit much from that? They prevent them from having a very bad year. You could say that's the benefit of the insurer. But the benefits here are mainly in terms of the jobs that we maintain through this arrangement, I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn. The question is, how do you calculate where the advantage falls? In the banking crisis, we had the same kind of discussion. There at some point we introduced the banking tax as a kind of shadow price for too big to fail. We all understand that, but it's ten years later that I get it all right. On this one, I really want to think very carefully where the pros and cons come down. It is not a runaway from a motion that was undoubtedly well-intentioned. Indeed, the operative part was about business, Mr Van Apeldoorn is right. I have a problem with that too, because what is "business"? Should I tax the profits of all companies in the Netherlands? Do I need to increase an insurance tax? Apart from where it drops down, the question is also what instruments you use to do that. What's the best instrument? That is why I ask this Chamber, as in the House of Representatives, to give me some time to make up for that analysis and for the good instrument. My intention is to come up with a thorough analysis in the fall. I can also see that it may not be a good idea for the government to always solve market failures without a price. This is essentially an economic problem. I'm looking at the further answer. Mr Vendrik has asked quite precise questions about the new policies. As Mr Vendrik probably saw in the replies, the premiums amount to about EUR 200 million. That's an estimate based on last year's premiums. The following applies to the new policies. Because the risks in the market have clearly deteriorated, we assume that a higher premium rate makes sense. I don't mind that either, because then you'll avoid the emergence of a sucking effect for new policies. In the current situation, unlike the previous situation, there is an own risk of 10% for insurers for the new policies. In other words, there is no risk for insurers in the current policies, and we do in the case of new policies. That is what we are all doing in order to prevent the possibility of new policies and the fact that we are guaranteeing them. I think I answered his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u30	In order to understand how important the question of these new policies is, I also asked about the relationship. How big a problem is that? I'm just gonna relate it to the treasury, 'cause we're all gonna get that money. I was just curious to see what the underlying relationship is there. Does the Secretary of State know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u31	No, I don't. Let me take a look at the officials, do we know that? This is always a problem in the First Chamber. I hear a few percent. But shall I do it in such a way that I will return to this in that letter, which I am sending as a result of the final agreements with the committee and so on? That I'm going to give you the exact numbers? I understand the question. Which brings me to Mrs. Sent. I thought I had answered Mr Van Apeldoorn's questions through my answers to the distribution of risks and so on, but let me see if that is the case. Doesn't look like it, so I'll hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u32	No, the Secretary of State doesn't quite have that. Don't you think I'm gonna kick in the mike now, Mr. Chairman? I think I am now, but it takes some getting used to. However, I would like to say a few words about the distribution of income and costs. Look, of course, the Secretary of State can say that in the end a lot of people benefit from this measure, because they keep their jobs. But that was not the point of my speech either, that they then have to pay the bill for it. What matters is what the Secretary of State himself says, namely that this is a market failure, and that the government intervenes. I had already asked, in my first term, what about the financial position of insurers and their solvency? The Secretary of State has not yet answered that question. Will it be at risk if this measure is not taken? And if so, I would say that there is talk of insurers making profits in good times and seeing in bad times that the state takes over. With very good reasons, which saves a lot of jobs. That's what we're here for, no misunderstandings about that. We do not say that it is about saving the insurers; we also understand that the goal is different. But that may be the result of it, and in the opinion of the SP Group it would be fair that at least part of that account should be deposited with insurers. That was the thrust of my speech. Hence my question about the solvency and financial position of insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u33	I am not aware of any information that, in the current situation, there would be a problem with the solvency or financial situation of insurers. What the insurers will do, I would like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn, was quite clear at the beginning of my speech. If we don't do something, the insurance company won't get into any trouble in a way. What they will do is stop insuring; that will be their behavior. Well, that's the ultimate market failure, let's just say. It is something, I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn, which neither of us should want. We shouldn't want that with each other. And then indeed the difficult question here is: where exactly is the advantage? That's still the point. Again, the specific market prevents them from adjusting their prices in the policy conditions. Moreover, that would not be a solution either, because if they make their price too high, there will also be problems. But they will withdraw, so there will be no immediate problem with these insurers, although, of course, the insurers will stop a bit on this part of the market; at least there will be no market for a while. But he or she will withdraw. But I am not insensitive to the argument that there is also an advantage for the insurer, because in some sense you guarantee continuity. I can see that, but it is, I think, too simple to say: the insurance market is being maintained here, the insurer is being helped and has to pay for it. That is not what Mr Van Apeldoorn says, I think he is more subtle in his reasoning, but that is why I am asking for a moment for my analysis and my answer to this difficult issue. I just want a moment to find out exactly what the zero situation is, what would happen if we didn't intervene. That is what Mr Van Apeldoorn is doing. What happens now, and who and where do the benefits come from? I really need time for that. It's gonna have to work for that, too, maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u34	Thank you. In any case, I welcome the answer from the Secretary of State that he is now saying something other than what is stated in the written reply. It says that insurers do not benefit from this. I was surprised. I understand very well what the Ministry says: that the premiums also benefit the State and so on. But this guarantee and this state aid have, of course, helped insurers, in the sense that the continuity of their business, of their services, is, as it were, guaranteed by the State. They could otherwise end the insurance, withdraw the credits or lower the limits. But then, of course, they have another problem. So if I were an insurer, I would certainly be pleased that at this bad time when the insurer is actually failing and there is market failure, the government is saving the hand. That seems to me to be a good start to the analysis which the Secretary of State has yet to make in detail. I would like the Secretary of State to be able to say here that if this analysis were to be carried out, the insurers would indeed have been helped in this respect, and that his translation would also be given to whom the account will eventually be charged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u35	As far as the latter is concerned, I'm not doing the analysis for nothing. You'd like that analysis to lead to something. But there is another difficult problem. If you would find that, for example, insurers have an advantage in this or anyone else has advantages in it, how exactly are you going to skim that advantage, get it back, etc.? In the House of Representatives it was suggested to do so via the insurance tax, but we suspect that it will be passed on to a great extent. Anyway, all those questions will come back. So also the instrumentation. Even if you find that these benefits do fall down like this, the instrumentation here is not yet an abc.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u36	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, a short third and final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u37	Yes, very briefly. My group also sees the latter. So I would not like to record the Secretary of State on the instrumentation either. But that is what I intend to do in the end to place the bill with the right parties. So I see some movement that the Secretary of State here is getting a little more concrete than in the House of Representatives. But if he can make it even more concrete, if he can indicate that it is being deposited at least with those parties who have benefited from it and that the instruments are still being left open, that is at least a movement which I welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u38	The commitment I can make is the following. I'll run the analysis. I will make that analysis as objective as possible. Then I'm gonna see where the pros and cons have been knocked down and then I'm gonna try to instrumentalize. Another instrument that has been mentioned here is that we could ask the sector to build its own fund for this kind of difficult time. That too is a way. The guarantee isn't the real problem. The real problem is the potential damage suffered here. A fund of EUR 1 billion is a lot, but this is another way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u39	May I ask the Chamberkeeper to bend the microphone up a little bit? We have a number of long speakers right now and every now and then it sounds a little soft. Thank you. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're not gonna get down on our knees. That's right. I understand the Secretary of State needs some time to figure out how socialism works. I can still understand that, but my point is another. The Secretary of State has indicated on three points what the cabinet comes up with. One point: after the European Commission's agreement, a further letter will be sent to deal with the questions that remain. Fine. Then there will be a support framework. That seems desirable to me, because if the cabinet is to decide quickly on the possibility of providing support, you need a framework. That seems obvious to me too. Later in the autumn, we will then have a further development of a possible rehearsal of the net costs of this scheme. My point was about the connection here. We have an emergency package. We have the NOW, the guarantees, the deferred tax payments, and we now have this facility. We have the Tozo, and so on, and so on. There may also be a support package for large companies. Who knows? Perhaps there will be further measures and in a month or two the political debate will be in and between the Cabinet and the Chamber on the follow-up of the emergency packages, I think, probably. Then it is really time to give direction, not on the details, whether the insurance tax might be the most appropriate variant to recover an advantage for insurers, but to point out how the cabinet intends to continue with this crisis, the distribution of costs and what that means in terms of conditionality. That's what I'm looking for. I actually prefer to see, although the Secretary of State may not be able to answer it himself, that the cabinet responds to this in writing. I would say that within a month we simply want to know. What are the main routes the cabinet sees for itself? That is what the cabinet itself needs, I think, because it has to keep course in this very complicated situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u41	I think the question is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u42	Mr. Chairman. I do not think I fully understood Mr Vendrik in the first term. It's good that he repeats it. An answer in two. I have to take this back to the cabinet as a humble Secretary of State for Finance, to the important ministers. I can't make a promise about a term right now. I will say to Mr Vendrik that I will take this back to the cabinet and this part with the most concerned colleagues. I can say that I would be surprised if we went to an emergency package 2.0 or whatever, if we do this as directionless as it happened in the first few weeks. Then you can pump nothing but liquidity into the economy. Mr Vendrik already admitted that. I think that this is well received by my fellow Members, but I cannot say from my portfolio myself: top, we are doing so. So I'm gonna say I'm gonna take it with me, but in six months, it won't do you much good. However, I cannot give a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u43	I'm glad to hear that. Thanks to the Secretary of State. It helps the good progress of things when we hear from the cabinet next Tuesday at the latest or, in any case, how and beyond. That leaves open what this gets us, but then we get where the cabinet is and what's coming. Once again, my group really prefers that the cabinet should do its best to inform the Chambers about this larger issue within a month, in which the follow-up steps could be taken. Then there will also be more focus on the question of who will pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u44	Like I said, I'll take it to the cabinet. There is a Council of Ministers on Friday, and I will raise it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u45	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u46	I think I've almost gotten to the end of it. I hope to have answered Mrs Sent's question with my first comments on the sadness of notes that are coming. I think that the first note, in which I go deeper into the risks and scenarios of credit insurance, will help you with the public-private burden sharing as it is now. That's what I thought you were asking for. Furthermore, I mention the overview of the risks: what does this actually mean? We'll describe some scenarios in that too. So far, I've been working from some sort of maximum scenario. There is also a maximum risk, so it is also wise to do so. But there are also better worlds imaginable. So I'll be happy to do that in that letter. I thought I understood your question about own funds/foreign assets as follows, but I need to check with you. I promised the House of Representatives a response to the report of the Ter Haar Committee in the summer. I would like to say that I would also like to send that to the First Chamber, of course, if that is the answer to your question. I shall conclude with Mr Otten. Yes, I must say that I found the last part of his speech particularly interesting. In it he emphasizes the debt, both private and public. Indeed, I share with him the concerns about this development, whether it be public debt or private debt. In such a crisis, at the beginning, as I said, there is no other way to react than as quickly as possible. Mr Otten saw from the discussion I had just had with Mr Vendrik and Mr Van Apeldoorn that questions about distribution arise from such a lightning-fast reaction. That's what I call it. But, of course, other questions also arise, namely: is building a debt strategy the best strategy? How do you do that? Et cetera, et cetera. But we're really still at the end of the day at the most. Above all, we are fighting fire and trying not to stop the economy. But this question about debt levels is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u47	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the strength with which he began his contribution, about the importance of this emergency law for 75,000 suppliers who would benefit from this to continue. Compliments. I have re-examined and considered the response to the European Commission. I have two further questions on this matter. How long does the Secretary of State expect it to take the European Commission to pee on this law? Is the intermediate period then a period of uncertainty for all those helped SME entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u48	The period can be quite short. Last week in the Lower House I said: a few weeks. Almost a week has passed by now. So it can be done very quickly. Does that give you any uncertainty? I do not think I can completely remove the fundamental uncertainty Mr van der Linden is referring to. There is always a possibility, a kind of tail risk, to say it again in good Dutch, that the Commission says no. Just... no. A hard no; this cannot be done. However, given my experience in Brussels, perhaps I may use it now, the Commission almost never says no in these situations. They usually say: you can do that, but then you have to turn this button a little bit more to make it fit better in preventing state aid and promoting competition. So there is this uncertainty, but as I said before, the risk is really very small, given what is happening in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u49	Obviously. However, I would like to share a little frustration with the Secretary of State, namely that we here in this Parliament, in the First Chamber and in the Second Chamber, are able to approve emergency packages of tens of billions within one or two weeks. We just had a debate on this with the Minister of the Interior. Here is a measure for which I think it is mainly aid. We're gonna see how that works out. The European Commission can take up to five weeks to remove that uncertainty. That's frustrating. That's unnecessary. In my opinion, the European Commission has already shown in this crisis why it is superfluous. Why is it not possible for the Commission to just let us know within a week: this is fine? One could have already studied the concepts there. If we can do that here in the Chambers, surely such a Commission should be able to do so, especially in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u50	I am not talking about the Commission's deadlines, but I can promise Mr van der Linden that I will make a phone call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u51	I don't think the microphone's been disinfected yet, but I'm gonna take the risk this time. I am pleased that the Secretary of State supports my proactive attempt to place this crisis in this chambre de réflexion in a wider context. I would like to come back to that. I don't think it's a pass that the Barendrecht councilman thinks he should stop me from speaking in this Chamber. So I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u52	Mr. Otten, this is inappropriate language. We're not on the Barendrecht Council here. Mr. Van der Linde is a senator. He has been elected for a fellow group and he is not sitting here with another hat on him. I therefore ask you not to use that terminology. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u53	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I did indeed submit the list to the Election Board myself at the time, I remember. But this aside. I think it is very important that we look forward now, because we have to do something to protect ourselves. So even though some people believe that this is not the issue right now, I would like to see how to ensure the economy of the Netherlands. And as counter-intuitive as it sounds, it probably can in this situation by building a sovereign debt, as a hedge. Multinationals sometimes do that in difficult countries. Then they borrow money from the local bank. If it goes wrong, you'll at least lose that loan. So I think we are going to table a motion on that. And certainly in view of the Secretary of State's background, I would like to talk about this at another time. Now that we have him here, let us take advantage of it. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Has the Secretary of State completed his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u56	We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give Mr Vendrik the opportunity to speak. I see he likes to take advantage of that. The floor is up to him. May I ask you to sit behind the speaker's seat for the second term, and not behind the interrupting microphone, Mr. Vendrik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. I only have one question. I just heard the Secretary of State say I'm taking it back to the cabinet. He says he wants to think about how he can serve Parliament in the major questions that have just been raised. I would very much appreciate it if the Secretary of State would undertake to tell us a little more about it within a week; is this going to happen and, if so, when then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. In any case, I am pleased to note that he is now going a little further in his reflections than in his answer to the written questions and also in relation to what he said in the debate in the House of Representatives. He goes along more generously with us in the observation that there is a market failure, that certain parties are potentially benefiting from it and that this must also be taken into account. I'm still trying to get it a little more concrete. Does the Secretary of State intend, after the analysis has been made, to account with those market players which are part of the major market failure that now necessitates the massive public intervention? Does he intend to leave the account at least part of it there? Did I understand the Secretary of State that well? Credit insurers shall in any event also constitute one of the parties to that market failure. So I am also pleased to note that the Secretary of State agrees with us that these insurers benefit from and benefit from this massive state aid. They may not have a direct advantage, but they may have an indirect advantage. This concerns the continuity of their services, their business model and their earning capacity. Without this support, there is certainly a problem. That also raises, morally speaking, the question of whether, in the end, at least partly, the account should not be deposited with them, depending on what exactly comes out of that analysis. We can talk about the instruments at a later stage, but at least then the intention is not to leave the account with the taxpayer in general. If that is the intention of the Secretary of State, I can tell you that there is a progressive understanding, or at least a ripening of the idea that it should be worked out in some way later, so that the bill will then reach the good parties and not all of us. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if I have understood that correctly and whether he is making this commitment to that effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mrs Sent on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Others have to get down their knees. I need to stand on my toes. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the pleasant and careful answer to our questions. The quality of his answers is certainly not negatively affected by his sitting position. In the first place, I have asked for attention to be paid to a number of issues. Public-private burden sharing, not only now, but also looking forward to the future. Stacking the risks the government is taking on. I am pleased that the Secretary of State will send us three letters on this matter. Firstly, a calculation after the European Commission has received agreement. In addition, the broader support framework. We had an exchange of views on this with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment this morning. And then there are the principles of burden-sharing. We very much look forward to that. We also support the input that GroenLinks has made here. Finally, on foreign and equity. The Secretary of State himself mentioned the credit crisis and the lessons learned from it. Then an important lesson is that it is now very nice that banks hold more equity. This reduces the vulnerability of the financial sector. As far as I am concerned, there are parallel lessons to be learned for business and foreign and equity financing and the vulnerability of business. That was the reason for me to add that now. I wish the Secretary of State much wisdom in drawing parallels to that crisis and learning the right lessons. In particular, I wish him and the members of the cabinet good health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u63	Mr President, thank you. I just had to finish my motion, which is why I'm late. I look back at the debate with a few observations. When I listen to Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP, I hear the following. "Oh, there's so much fire these days. The manufacturers of fire trucks and fire hoses have a golden age. We need to do something about that. They're getting rich wrongly. It can't be." That's kind of how the SP's in it, I guess. I totally agree with the Secretary of State. There is now a situation in which the backstop for insurers must be regulated very quickly via the government. This must also be done quickly. The speed is actually much more important here in all these debates than whether or not the last percent ends well. You'd better do it 80%, 90% right and then wait a long time. Well, if you don't mind if I reflect for a moment, Mr. Chairman? I'll be brief. Mrs Sent is always talking about strengthening equity by companies. Mrs Sent, how much equity do you think SMEs have left at the moment, after this crisis? If you have a catering company and there's not gonna be any sales, your equity will be gone in a few months. I hear it with great interest, but it seems to me like the situation six months ago. Maybe that was the issue back then. But we ended up in a different time very quickly, let alone having any equity left at all. So let's focus on the emergency measures. I will come back anyway, unless Mr Van Apeldoorn wishes to respond, to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u64	I did not really want to respond, but now that Mr Otten is going to take the measure or at least comment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u65	You did it yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u66	I pointed out the order of business. You're going to comment on our contributions. About this comparison with the fire department, I think it's limping. The fire department isn't a private company, it's a public service. There are no profits made which can then be retained to socialise losses when times are bad. That was exactly my point. Perhaps, when it comes to a fire function, we should turn it into a real public service or a utility function, which is guaranteed at all times by the government. In that sense, I think that comparison is limp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u67	I mentioned the fire department, but I could take a grocery store or a take-away company. There are now enormous behavioral changes in the economy due to the corona crisis, and some will at least be semi-permanent and lead to major economic shifts. Then we can do everything through the government, but a company always has to deal with problems and new circumstances that it will have to deal with. Some companies are going to do very well, and other companies, which may not have been so strong in the past, are now facing very serious setbacks. That does not mean that we have to socialise everything and put it under government control. I'm not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u68	Please continue your argument, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u69	I have another motion to make, Mr. Chairman. That motion is handwritten; I assume that is not a problem. The President shall: Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis reveals a huge mismatch between the Dutch government debt (47% of GDP) and private debt (102% of GDP);]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of establishing a form of debt transition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35433-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u70	Only by myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u71	That's a big deal. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the second term of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u72	Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik asked for that note within a week. I'll tell him. That's quick and clear. With regard to Mr Van Apeldoorn's cost-benefit analysis and the question whether I am prepared to make it sound in the sense that I will let the costs and benefits fall where they belong: yes. But I would point out, and I repeat that in order to avoid misunderstandings, that I do not think we agree a priori on where the benefits fall. I myself think that the insurers do not have such great benefits, except continuity, and that the benefits are mainly shared. That's why I'm asking you to let me do the analysis. This will enable us to have the debate here. But in itself, I agree with the principle of trying, if we are out of the deepest depths of this crisis, to bring down the costs and benefits well. We don't disagree. I think we could differ on where the costs and benefits are. But I do not think that we should be having that debate now, because I did not do the analysis, so that will be a bit of whistling in the dark, as I used to call it in the middle of the euro crisis. Mrs Sent made a point: it was not really a question of what I wholeheartedly agree with. If this crisis so far has shown one thing, it is actually far too early to say; you should never do that after two months, then that is the buffers we have built up in all kinds of areas, really too small. That is a much broader point than just insurers or banks; that brings me back to what Mr Vendrik is asking for. I will not go into that further, because we will be here in two hours, but I think that is one of the lessons we have learned so far. We're much less shockproof than we thought, in many ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u73	Thank you, boss, for lowering the microphone. I do feel challenged to ask the Secretary of State to what extent taxation contributes to the fact that we have not built up enough buffers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u74	You are now asking for the views of the Secretary of State on the relationship between equity and debt, for example. However, that is a view that my predecessor and his predecessor had already had. With taxation, we have certainly not done the right thing in the past. There are other places. For example, when we talk about the self-employed deduction, taxation does indeed affect the economy, namely when it comes to how people behave. I am very careful, because I am now in the areas of others, but you hear me say that there are all kinds of places where taxation actually promotes or does not promote the building of buffers. One of the lessons so far, once again, is very dangerous after two months, that these buffers are not large enough. Taxation can be a means of dealing with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u75	I had to let the Secretary of State's words settle for a while after all. It is understandable but, at the same time, it is regrettable that this analysis will only come later, because we now have to vote on the legislative proposal. I can imagine that we will indeed not agree on the analysis of where the benefits fall. The Secretary of State seems to be a bit inclined to compare apples with pears. Of course, the benefits of this measure also come from a much wider group. The analysis already shows, at least now, that the government's hypothesis is that it will benefit 75,000 companies and their employees. These workers do benefit from this, but it is not necessarily the intention that we should take account of them, because it is precisely because we are trying to maintain employment for the general interest. That is different from when you talk about market players making private profits in good times and now being dragged on dry land by the State and kept out of the wind in that sense. I think that is a fundamental difference. On the one hand you have benefits for a very large group of employees and on the other hand you have benefits for private parties that can make big profits in good times...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u76	What is your question, Mr. Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u77	My question is whether the Secretary of State can reflect on that difference. That matters to us for the question of who you're billing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u78	I think I should simply agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn. There is a difference between private benefits and public benefits. But again, I keep repeating my point: I really want to have time to think better about how this is exactly and I also want to look more broadly at the insurance market, where it all plays. I'll tie it in my ears. It wasn't so much a question as a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u79	Mr Vendrik has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u80	The Secretary of State himself made a comparison with the credit crisis and saving the banks. That was also a public interest, an interest of all of us, but at that time we chose to introduce a banking tax for a good reason, even if it was only a fraction of all the damage caused by the banks at that time. That analogy also applies here, of course. Often public and private benefits are not side by side, but they are, as it were, interspersed. It was then, and it is here. I hope that this will give recognition to the fact that, in the end, the account will have to be sought from the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u81	Yes and no. The analogy is partial. But we have to realize that the banks themselves were in trouble at the time. They were in big trouble because they would have just gone bankrupt if we hadn't done anything. In this case, it's a bit different. Those insurers had not gone bankrupt, but simply stopped delivering this product. These are exactly the subtle differences why I want to take a good look at what to do. As I have just said, the idea is to form a fund as a more or less private resource where the insurers agree with each other that they are going to invest part of their profits in order to take this kind of situation in the future at least partly for their own benefit. But there are other ideas. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mr Otten's motion. In a way, if I try to understand it, Mr Otten is served by the situation. I can tell you that there is one thing I am quite sure about: public debt in the Netherlands is growing very rapidly. You don't have to worry about that at all. That goes on an emergency train ride. In a way, what Mr Otten is trying to achieve is happening. I talked to Mr Koolmees about that. What exactly are we doing with the NOW scheme? The government borrows and then gives that money to the employees of companies. There is a direct flow from the public to the private sector. We're running out of public debt. If Mr Otten means "is this going ahead and does the cabinet think that this is a desirable development in this situation of the crisis?', is the answer: yes. But I must advise against this motion, because I read something else in it. That may be my twisted mind, and they may forgive me. But I'm reading some sort of bail-out by the government of private debt. That's not what we're up to. The cabinet will never do that, for a lot of reasons that we shouldn't be dealing with here. Then I'm really going to be on the sidelines of the Minister of Finance. He'll have to talk to you about that, too. But I dissuade this motion because I read it in it. You are talking about a form of debt transition. A "transition" is a transition, and I read a bail-out in it. But if, economically speaking, your intention is for the government to make debts in this economic situation, in the NOW scheme, you see that at best illustrated to keep the private sector going, then the answer is: yes, I agree; that is exactly what the cabinet is pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u82	Let me explain the idea of my motion, because it was a rather short motion. In fact, in this crisis you better be an Italian than a Dutchman, because then you don't have high private debts. And if a country goes bankrupt, that's too bad, but Italy has gone bankrupt seven times, an eighth time can be added. That doesn't affect the people themselves. In the Netherlands, everyone with very high mortgage debts, consumer debts, study debts, rent debts will soon find themselves, because Koolmees' measures are not enough to facilitate this with all due respect. That's a drop on a glowing plate. The Secretary of State knows that, I think, too. So I'm not saying we should do a bail-out, but we should be in the form of... Look, as a Dutch state, you can easily raise that level to the German level of 60%. It's probably going to go up a few percent now, but it's not going up to those kinds of levels yet. It can easily reach 70%, 80%; so has the President of the Netherlands Bank. You don't see any effects yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u83	Mr. Otten, you have one more question, because this is starting to look like a third term. Can you ask a short question in the event of interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u84	You have just heard Mr Vendrik and Mr Van Apeldoorn in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u85	I asked those two to finish at some point. So if you'd like to use the interruption for a brief question, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u86	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I would nevertheless like to suggest that you investigate this, with certain limits and criteria. We can all discuss that further. But this is an important direction to see if we can manage the crisis in the long term. However, I would urge you to carry out an investigation and look at it. Think of it as a possible direction to do so. That's what I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u87	I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State. He talked about a temporary higher public debt, so as to make a transfer to the private sector. He also mentioned the importance of large buffers. You can almost guess that this was a hunchback, because where are those buffers now? With the pension funds. There should be a very substantial reduction at the end of the year. You do not have to respond to that, because this is not your portfolio, but I do feel somewhat strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u88	I'm really trying to think along with Mr Otten. Another line I heard from his last comment/question was a line that does appeal to me and is close to the buffers. Mr Otten pointed out the long balance sheets in the Netherlands. This is a very well-known problem in the private sector. There's a lot of capital, but there's a lot of debt on the other side. That has something to do with this, and I am laughing at Mrs Sent's report with the way in which we have put our fiscal system together. So if Mr Otten asks me if I want to look at high levels of private sector debt and what to do about it, I will just put it on my portfolio and say: I would like to do so. In fact, I'm going to. I have all sorts of reports from very handsome people who advise me on the future of the tax system. That's a point there. That's fine. The second point relates to the further study on debt in different countries, European countries and the Netherlands, in the private and public sectors. I will gladly pass this on to my colleague, Mr Hoekstra, who is talking about this, and I will ask him to report to your Chamber if that is the intention of this motion. However, I did not read the motion in that way, because she is talking about a debt transition. That's why I have to discourage this motion. I am trying to meet Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u89	Mr Otten has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u90	In the words of the Secretary of State, I hear more or less that he says that if he can understand the motion, he will want to look at it further. Can you then promise that you will come back to this at a later date, not too long from now on, and exchange views with us? Then I might be able to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u91	I will be happy to do so, but I will have to do so in consultation with Mr Hoekstra. When I come back to it in the form of a note, I will do so mainly on my portfolio, taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u92	Just a little more time. The Secretary of State spoke about tax reform, bringing with him a number of issues, including debt. I would like to point out something that strikes me from the reports from the OECD and from Brussels. This does not actually reflect the overvalue of the own property in mortgage debt, which is huge. You should really get that into that picture. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u93	Mr Van Rooijen is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u94	Now it's getting a little too crazy for me too, because there's getting more and more. What else is this debate about? I'd really like to talk about foreign equity. I would very much like to talk about where the debt positions will be built up and whether it should be equity, for example; I call it a side street. Let's have a nice chat about that too for an hour. But this isn't about the bill anymore. So, frankly, Mr Otten, you have tabled a motion that has nothing to do with the bill. I'm sorry. And I would very much like to have the debate, but let us just do it in an honest way, where everyone can prepare, we can discuss the subject well with the cabinet and also the good rulers are here. Then we have an orderly debate. But this is too much for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u95	The Secretary of State is almost coming to an end now, I think. Is it true you're almost at the end of your term, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u96	Sure. I'm done talking for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-9.u97	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote directly on the legislative proposal today at the end of the sitting and that we vote on the motion tabled at the next sitting. I shall suspend the sitting until 7 p.m., after which we shall have the debate on the joint examination of two laws in the area of finance.
