ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u1	There is a message of opposition from Mr Bruins of the Christian Union and from Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party. The next item is the continuation of the debate on Mr Van Meenen's proposal for a law. As you may know, this proposal was originally tabled by Mr Raemakers. I can imagine that Mr Raemakers is currently following the debate. Mr Van Meenen has now taken over the defence of the proposal. I'd like to welcome him. He is supported in box K by Mrs De Boer, policy supporter at the D66 Group. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I welcome the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. We're supposed to finish the whole legal process together tonight. Since it's a legal procedure, I don't want to limit the number of interruptions. I would ask you, however, to be somewhat short and to do two-way interruptions. Then I hope we'll have a very nice evening together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. It's the initiator's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. It's nice of you to put Sabeth de Boer in the spotlight for a while, without whom I would be nothing. This also applies to gentlemen Linthorst and Meijer, who have chosen to sit in the back. I'd like to mention them anyway. I'm sure they're gonna hate it, and that's why I'm doing it. Mr. Chairman. This initiative law is very important for the entire D66 group, but for one person within our ranks it is particularly important, and that is the author: my colleague Rens Raemakers. You've already referred to it, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema told Rens in her first term that she would like to see him more often in box K and I fully agree with that. It is therefore extremely unfortunate and unfortunate that he cannot stand here today to defend his own initiative law. From this place on, I wish him all the good and the good. Come on, Rens! On behalf of Rens, I would like to thank all the first-term speakers. It is incredibly important that steps are taken on this point in the short term. I am therefore pleased with the support that I have carefully tasted from your Chamber and also with the critical remarks that help me to tighten up the story, because we want it to work in practice. Mr. Chairman. As a parent, you want the very best for your child, but unfortunately you can't control a lot of things. We parents I am one myself and I am also a grandparent so we cling to what we can influence. We give our children all the love and attention, insist that they eat enough fruit and vegetables, go to the consultation office, inform us what we do best in education and what we don't and if we are sensible let us also vaccinate our child according to the National vaccination programme. We want the best school, maybe even move to that child-friendly neighborhood and hope that these choices together are the recipe for our children to grow up healthy and happy. The choice for childcare is also included, but how can parents make a well informed choice if one very important criterion is not clear? There are many young parents coming to us who say: "When I send my child to the shelter, I want to make sure that it is as safe as possible there. Can that be arranged quickly, please?" Many childcare centres get questions about it and say: "This is my own company, isn't it? Why shouldn't I be allowed to offer these parents that safety?" In 2012, 96.1% of 2-year-olds were still vaccinated against mumps, measles and red dog, the so-called "bmr-prick." In 2018, that percentage had fallen to 92.2. Last week RIVM reported a slight improvement for the first time, but too few children have still been vaccinated. According to the World Health Organisation, a vaccination rate of at least 95% is necessary to prevent an outbreak of measles, for example. That we are now below that percentage, we can see from the recent outbreaks in children's centers in Urk, Zoetermeer, The Hague and Leiden, all in the past year. When it comes to measures for the safety and health of our children, D66 has no taboos. However, we think it is wise to start with light, unenforceable measures. And we are doing that now, by giving childcare centres the opportunity to refuse unvaccinated children. This makes the market transparent and gives parents the opportunity to choose the safest environment for their child. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the specific questions raised by my colleagues. I'll do that in the next few blocks. Block 1 deals with the relationship between the legislative proposal and the proposals of the Vermeij Committee. Block 2 deals with the objective and usefulness of the legislative proposal. Block 3 is about striving for maximum security. Block 4 deals with the risk of clustering of unvaccinated children. Block 5 is about the scope of the bill. Block 6 deals with the legal aspects. Block 7 deals with the implementation aspects. And finally, I'll make you happy with a beautiful final word. Mr. Chairman. I come to the first block, about the relationship between the bill and the proposals of the Vermeij Committee. After the introduction, I would like to address the question of who is responsible for what we are talking about here and what. The Vermeij Committee notes the following. "The government's got a move to make. This means that the responsibility for taking measures lies with the government, not with childcare." That was so general that the committee immediately added something to it, otherwise the impression could arise that childcare would never have to take any action, and perhaps it would not have to. The report then states: "This is without prejudice to the fact that staff or host parents have their own responsibility to protect children under their care as effectively as possible against the occurrence of infectious diseases." That's a good thing. But I do not see why, in addition to the staff, the owners of the children's centers should not have that responsibility. The Childcare Act is full of obligations for the holder of a children's centre. Those obligations also concern a safe and healthy environment. I refer to Rule 1.49. It contains a long list of things that holders are asked to do in the context of that safe and healthy environment. And I don't see why protecting children as well as possible from getting an infectious disease couldn't be part of that. So I do not think it is very fruitful to argue about who has the first or the greatest responsibility, as was done in the first term of the Chamber by Mr Hijink and Mr Renkema on the one hand, and Mr Van der Staaij on the other. I can say three things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u4	Before you do that, there is an interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr Van Meenen makes an important point here, I think. There are already a lot of safety rules to which daycare centres must comply. The crucial point is, of course, that those rules which are laid down in the law are the same for all daycare centres. The government sets the standard. Mr Van Meenen clearly does not choose to do so in his proposal. He actually says: there are all kinds of rules, for example about electrical sockets, stair gates, the occupation on a group. Those rules are uniform and they apply to everyone. But, says Mr Van Meenen, my proposal on child safety when it comes to vaccination, I make it optional. He says: I leave it to the daycare center to decide whether that safety standard will apply. That is, of course, a crucial difference. Why does he make that difference? And why is he making the comparison with the measures applicable to all nurseries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr Hijink is well aware of this: we are not setting a standard, but we are giving an opportunity. However, it has also been asked whether we should lay down responsibilities at all with the holders of children's centres. So it's not in itself a crazy idea to do that. We do not do it; we do not place any responsibility on the holders of nursery homes, but we give them an option to do the right thing for the children. That is what this bill does: no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Hijink, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u8	Can Mr Van Meenen imagine that we would do this on other fronts, that we would say 'yes, you will properly shield the stairs with stairs and close the sockets, unless you think it is not necessary'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u9	No, I can't imagine. But that is certainly of a different order than this bill; I hope we can agree on that. Mr. Chairman. I said I'd say three things about that. First of all, the wording of Article 22 of the Constitution "Government takes measures to promote public health' is not such as to prevent other than public authorities from taking or taking measures to promote public health. Secondly, we must be careful not to trivialise the responsibility of citizens, in this case the holders of children's centres and the parents of children. Thirdly, there is no doubt that the government is responsible for measures that can only be taken by the public authorities, namely legislation. As far as I am concerned, this is where the government comes in. That is why I agree with the Vermeij Committee. The question is what the content and timing of this legislation should be. I do not want to detract from the seriousness of the problem we are dealing with today: too low a vaccination rate. However, I am aware that if we are going to address this problem with forms of coercion or obligations, we will inevitably have to deal with legislation restricting fundamental rights. I refer to freedom of religion and belief, privacy and the integrity of the human body. I do not want to leave any doubt that, in my opinion, the weight of public health and of the child will ultimately have to be the most important factor in the balance of interests. However, the far-reaching nature of the legislation required for this has been a reason for the original initiator Rens Raemakers to consider whether less far-reaching legal measures should first be taken. Measures which may not lead directly and demonstrably to an increase in vaccination rates, but which could contribute to this. To this end, he has sought membership of the responsibility for safety in children's centres, which also lies with the holders of those centres. The mirror image of that responsibility is the concerns that live among the customers, I say disrespectfully, of the children's centers: the parents. Mr Bruins believes that reassuring parents who want to have their children vaccinated should not be our primary objective. I strongly disagree with that. These parents do what they can to prevent not only their own children, but also other children from getting serious infectious disease. But they rightly want to know whether the parents of the other children in their children's center also contribute to this. In the interests of the safety of their own children, they do so. This can be clarified and reassured if their children's center reveals that it only allows vaccinated children. But the children's centers have to be allowed to do that. If this is properly regulated, transparency will arise in the childcare market. Parents can then opt for the highest possible level of safety provided by children's centres that allow only vaccinated children. Or they can allow their choice to be determined by other considerations. Mr Hijink does not have much with that, that is clear to me. For he speaks of a market-oriented and consumeristic approach. But the bill does nothing but take account of the actual situation. The provision of childcare is still an activity of private entrepreneurs in this country. You can find all kinds of things, but that's the actual situation. But that does not rule out government regulation, and that is what the Childcare Act has done a great deal. The bill is in line with this. In the recitals of the original initiator...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you so much for stopping. There is an urgent interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u11	Perhaps I am too early, but Mr Van Meenen has just said that the legislative proposal does not really change much in current practice. With me, the question arose as to how far this bill is actually something new compared to the current situation. A distinction is already made between unvaccinated and vaccinated in some daycare centres. To what extent do we actually need this bill to change practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u12	I shall come back to that very comprehensively, if that is all right with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u13	Yeah, that's a separate block. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u14	What I said about not changing anything was about the fact that we now have a market for childcare. We're not gonna change them with this. That's just the actual situation. You can also find all kinds of things about this. I find all kinds of things about this, but that is not what we are talking about here. In the recitals of the original initiator Rens Raemakers also played a role, many say that they are in favour of measures aimed directly at increasing the vaccination rate, but think mainly of measures that remain in the sphere of information. The suspicion is justified that some of them will not feel for further measures such as vaccination restrictions or even obligations, even if they would be necessary for the required increase in vaccination rates. In other words, it is still not certain whether a more far-reaching law will be passed. In response to a question from Mr Van Dijk, I note that these considerations led the original initiator of the Rens Raemakers bill to submit a bill that could not only contribute to an increase in vaccination rates. In any case, this legislative proposal can remove the possible legal obstacles that could prevent holders of children's centres from doing everything possible to prevent the contamination of children at their centres by allowing only vaccinated children. This will also make it easier for parents to understand which children's centres allow only vaccinated children and which do not distinguish between vaccinated and unvaccinated children. This responds to real concerns of parents about this. Unlike Mr Hijink, the bill does not make children's centres responsible for vaccination policy in our country. This responsibility remains explicitly with the government. But I do not see why we should not appreciate it positively if the holder of a children's centre feels responsible for more safety aspects than the hygiene in his centre and, for example, the sealing of electrical outlets. And indeed, everything he does at that point does not serve the protection of all children in the Netherlands who are staying in a children's centre, but what is wrong with him doing something to protect the children in his own children's centre? I also disagree with his statement that this does not serve the sector. There are children's centres that would like to only allow vaccinated children, but are uncertain as to whether they should. They do not want to run the risk of court proceedings, with all the costs and stress associated with them. A number of their organisations have therefore voted in favour of the legislative proposal. I do agree that a situation is gradually emerging in which we have to think about a form of vaccination coercion or perhaps even a duty to have your children inoculated. The Vermeij Committee has made an important contribution to this, but it has limited itself to the position of childcare in the wider problem of the under-vaccination rate. The report of that committee has led my colleague Rens Raemakers to express the intention to submit a letter of amendment which would be in line with the opinion of the Vermeij Committee. I see Mrs Hermans at the interrupting microphone, but is it okay if I say two more sentences? Mr Hijink has rightly pointed out that Mr Raemakers did not do so. I'd like to explain to the Chamber why he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u15	I felt that Mr Van Meenen was going to a slightly different subject than where I wanted to ask another question. That is about responsibility and the question of who it should be with. That is in fact a follow-up to a question that Mr Hijink has just asked. If I have listened carefully to Mr Van Meenen, does he link that question of responsibility very much to questions like "who is responsible for what measure?" and "who is responsible for vaccination policy?" As far as I am concerned, it should be the question of who is responsible for setting the standard on what we think is normal, what we think is important, or what we require as a condition for access to childcare. Then Mr Raemakers, now through Mr Van Meenen, makes the choice to take responsibility for this responsibility. I mean to lay down the responsibility for this standard for childcare, for a childcare organisation that says: we only allow children who have been vaccinated or not. What the Vermeij Committee is doing is turning that around. She says: as a government, we set that standard and that applies to all childcare centres. How does Mr Van Meenen look at this way of setting standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u16	I shall come back to this later in detail, but the Vermeij Committee assumes a completely different scenario from what is before us. That's the red scenario. That is the scenario with which you are working with Mr Hijink on a law, which also has great sympathy from my party. That is a different situation from what we are trying to achieve here. We are not setting a standard here. We are not going to say anything about the vaccination rate, except that it is too low and that there are risks. The only thing we are doing is giving a possibility, an option to the holder of a children's centre, with the aim that it can choose to make it as safe as possible. It is never 100% safe, because there is no such thing, and I will come back to that later. That's a possibility and they can or can't use it. It's not coercion, it's not obligation, it's responsibility, it's an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u17	Will that be enough, Mrs. Hermans? Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u18	I have a question about that hook in the law. An article is added to the Childcare Act which should make it possible to refuse unvaccinated children. Mr Van Meenen says that the centres have the certainty that what they want is possible. My question is whether they will have that certainty when this law is due to be passed. In my opinion, the question is more: what happens if someone goes to court on the basis of the Equal Treatment Act and says, "Whoa, wait a minute, I'm being denied here without the refuser having a legitimate purpose?" That was also the criticism of the Council of State. You may have a ground for refusal, but it must serve a legitimate purpose, for example the protection of public health. But the aim of this law is transparency for the sector and freedom of choice for parents. How does Mr Van Meenen look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u19	I appreciate that Mr Hijink wants to discuss directly important questions with me in his enthusiasm, but I assure him that I will not disappoint him in any way that I will come back to this very extensively in my further reply. I'd like to get that right now, but I promise. Then I will say a lot about it myself and if you have any questions about it... I do not want to take it off, because I can take it up now, but this is going to be dealt with in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u20	This was the introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u21	No, no, no, I told you which cubes are there. I'd like to grab them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Van Meenen has sketched out a number of cubes. It is nice if we are going to deal with the blocks in that order, I would also like to point out to Mr Van Meenen, so if you would take that into account, very much. I call Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u23	In block 5 and 6 this is discussed. We are now at block 1, but that is also a long block. It's a real blok, you might say. I would like to explain to the Chamber why he did not do so, why he did not choose to submit that letter of amendment. Rens Raemakers has not submitted the announced letter of amendment because he has come to the understanding that it would be careless to implement the Vermeij Committee's proposal in the form of a letter of amendment to the bill. In fact, that would be a completely new legislative proposal, but without the Council of State being heard about it and without an orderly written examination. He feared that, given the complex nature of the matter, the creation of such a letter of amendment would take more time than he considered justified. During all this time required for that letter of amendment and all the duties associated with it, the handling of the legislative proposal before us would be delayed, while he considered the drafting of this law to be extremely urgent. Mr Hijink believes that we should be careful about this. Of course I agree with him. One aspect of that care lies in the saying: better in half than in total error. Mr Raemakers has done so. He kept to it, because he saw it in.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, Mr Hijink is also doing something good, along with Mrs Hermans, but before we get there, we are a little further. We see this as a step that needs to be taken and that can be taken quickly. So the better is the enemy of good. I like it so much; I'm gonna say it again. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins also made a comment on timing. With a reference to the report of the Vermeij Committee, he pointed to the complex issues raised in this subject, both in legal and in terms of implementation. He asked whether it is therefore not advisable not to make hasty decisions. Mr Bruins and I seem to be in line with that, because I too see this complexity and I too am against haste, but it is not. He asked whether the present legislative proposal, this initiative proposal, would therefore not come too soon. My answer to that is that the bill is not a minute early. The question put by Mr Bruins can only arise from incomprehension about the differences between the present proposal and the Vermeij Committee's proposal, and I am referring in particular to the different objectives and the difference between the minor nature of the legislative proposal before us and the very far-reaching nature of the proposals put forward by the Vermeij Committee. Finally, I would like to respond to a few comments made by Mr Van der Staaij. He sees very clearly the differences between the objectives of the legislative proposal and the Vermeij Committee. I shall come back to the objectives of the legislative proposal and to some of the legal points, as I said earlier. This is his question: but what are the follow-up steps? He has the feeling that saying "yes" to this means that the following actually comes within reach. Is this really something that stands on its own, so his question is, or is this the end of a particular discussion? Here's what I can say. Of course, I do not decide when a discussion ends, whether or not there will be follow-up steps and whether they will lead to legislation. This will depend to a large extent on developments in the vaccination rate and whether or not outbreaks of serious infectious diseases occur. However, the proposal before us is self-evident, especially since, as Mr van der Staaij rightly pointed out, it is a relatively small measure which is close to what is already the case in legal terms and which, I add, does not provide for forms of coercion or obligations which might soon come into play in the event of any follow-up action. What the bill does is also separate from the three scenarios used by the Vermeij Committee. That committee wrongly aligns the bill with the rather drastic measures it considers necessary in its red scenario. But what this legislative proposal wants to achieve is transparency and freedom of choice for parents... is also very useful in the green and orange scenario of the committee. If I move into the thinking world of Mr Van der Staaij, then I can only conclude that he should hope that the proposed law will have the positive effects that I hope will be there. And I'm talking about an increase in the vaccination rate. It is not the direct purpose of the legislative proposal, but I think it may well be the result of it. I'll be back to talk about that later. If there are positive effects, follow-up actions with more binding measures may not be necessary and may not be necessary. It would then be reasonable for Mr Van der Staaij to cooperate in the drafting of this law, which could have these positive effects. If the legislative proposal before us does not become a law, perhaps partly because of the voting behaviour of Mr Van der Staaij's group, I think there is a good chance that legislation will soon be put in place which is far more far-reaching than what is now before us. D66 will not get out of the way, but Mr Van der Staaij will not be happy with it. So much for my vote to Mr Van der Staaij. The same goes for Mr Bruins. That was block one, block one. Block 2 deals with the objective and usefulness of the legislative proposal. I think it would be a good idea to start by discussing the question of the added value of the legislative proposal. Does the bill bring anything new? And is it necessary? These questions were asked by the ladies De Pater-Postma and Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Hijink, Bruins and Van der Staaij. I regret that so many misunderstandings have arisen, from the Council of State to this Chamber. For it is true that, in purely factual terms, the holder of a child centre can already refuse to allow unvaccinated children to do so. But it is a question of whether, legally speaking, he should do the same. The note on the report already states that the legislative proposal uses the term "may" because it is common practice in legislation. When a law says that an administrative body or a person can do something, it does not mean whether it is actually possible or not, but it has the normative meaning that it has the discretionary power to do so and therefore it can. So "may" in this sense means "may." There is still a lack of clarity at the moment regarding the refusal of unvaccinated children, given Article 2 (1) of the General Law on equal treatment and the lack of case law on the application of that article to the case concerning the legislative proposal, the unequal treatment of well- and non-vaccinated children. This legislative proposal removes this ambiguity. I will deal with the legal aspects of this later. This is necessary in the context of the first objective of the legislative proposal, the creation of transparency in the market for children's centres. Only then will parents be given the choice they are entitled to. They should be able to choose the safest environment for their children. For this purpose, it is necessary to know which children's centres allow only or almost exclusively vaccinated children. The bill regulates this by including it in the child care register. That too is new. For the record, increasing the vaccination rate is not the supporting objective of this bill, for the simple reason that I cannot guarantee that this objective will also be achieved with the legislative proposal before us. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen expressed all her doubts about this. I'm a little more optimistic about that. I also hope that the legislative proposal will lead to the policy line 'child centres allow only vaccinated children' being the norm among the vast majority of children's centres. So for now, not a legal standard, but a social one. As a result, parents who are hesitant about whether they will have their child vaccinated will be reminded. It will also be a topic of conversation when registering children at a children's center. Again, I do not know if the law will have that impact, but even if it is disappointing, the bill is certainly not without its usefulness. Parents who have their children vaccinated can opt for a safest child centre. This is particularly important in the first 14 months of child life. One hundred percent of safety will never be guaranteed, if only because children outside a children's center may also suffer from infectious disease. But that doesn't change the fact that it can reassure parents. They have done everything possible for the sake of their children. I'll come back to this later. That was the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u24	There's been an interruption by Mrs. De Pater-Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u25	Sometimes a name changes, too. I'm Mrs. Postma now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u26	Ms. Postma! There you go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u27	That can happen, just like a law can change. I was triggered for a moment. We were talking about "mag" and "kan." This law aims to change it. Then I was thinking about the kids who can't be vaccinated because they have a medical condition. So you'd like to have them at those child centers. Is that 'can' or'may' then a'must', in the sense of: should child care then refuse all children who cannot be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u28	No, that's okay. You can do it in principle, but you don't have to. There may be exceptions. This concerns the policy of the child center. I will come back to that later, but there may be a hardness clause for this kind of child, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u29	Does that make any sense? Because we want to make this law clearer, so that we know where we stand, or so I hear you say. Is that really going to be specific? If parents go to court and say there's a kid on it who's not following the federal vaccination plan, what happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u30	Then it must be proven to fit within the policy of the child center. Again, a hardness clause can be used. There is also constant talk about the total or virtually total non-administering of unvaccinated children. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u31	The Council of State has said that there is really no need for a legal basis for private institutions to pursue such policies. That's why a law doesn't seem necessary and you can do with a hand-off. What is the complainant's reaction to this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u32	I hate to break it to you, but you may forgive me: this is coming later. As you may know, I'm a lawyer. That's why I need to hold on to what I have here. So I also say to you: I will come back to what that means in detail. But what I have already said about it is that the Council of State, in its response, does not really have what the objective is. Too much has been done from the idea that a road to refusing all children has been followed here, a way to scenario 3. That's just factually wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u33	Block 6 deals with the legal aspects. At least Mr Van Meenen will come back to it. Is that enough, Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u34	Let's talk about the objective. This is the block about the objective, isn't it? No? Then we'll get to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u35	I'll see what happened with you. Yeah, it's true, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u36	In this context, it is also useful to clarify what the objective is. Of course, the legal aspect also plays a role in this. Is the objective above all to provide clarity? Mr Van Meenen also mentions transparency. Then the question remains: can't you offer that clarity in another way? Do you need a law for that? If the objective is not also to directly increase the vaccination rate, Mr Van Meenen indicated that this is at most the result, but not the objective is "what is the purpose and therefore the added value of the law?" That's how sharp I'd like to put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u37	There are two objectives: transparency and freedom of choice for parents. That freedom of choice can only be there if it is clear what the policy is. This policy must be based on a legal basis; it must be based on something. That's the story about "it's possible" and "it's allowed." This adds that this legal basis is given, that the policy can therefore be pursued and that there is also public registration. So you can see in the childcare register what the policy is on the child care concerned. That's what this law does, nothing more and nothing less. This law doesn't oblige anyone to vaccination, not at all. It's up to everyone to decide. But you do have a picture of the kid center you're taking your kid to. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Van der Staaij, for a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yeah, short. Okay, the goal is transparency, but then the question remains: is it necessary to specifically create a law for this? Because that is a far-reaching measure in itself. You can ask those centers to just clear up their admissions policy, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u40	Yes, you can ask, but that admission policy must be based on a law. That law is the beginning of everything. We may differ on this, but our position is that at the moment the implementation of such an admission policy has no legal basis and that we should therefore give it to the child centres so that they can actually implement that policy. There is now great uncertainty about this, and we want to remove it with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u41	On this point, too, the legal framework for childcare itself. It's possible, and it's allowed, there's no legal basis for it. If that were a major problem, I would expect the two large industry organisations in childcare to say: we are glad that this is going to happen. How, then, does Mr Van Meenen explain that both organisations are actually saying that they do not think this is necessary at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u42	You can say a lot about that. There are a lot of childcare organisations, children's centres, which are keen to do this, as other studies have shown, in order to provide maximum clarity to parents and to provide maximum safety. I cannot explain this discrepancy except that some other people would prefer to take a further step. In any case, my theorem, the theorem of this bill, is: this is a first step. Whether or not there will be a follow-up step is up to others at the moment. They're working on it. We'll assess that on his merits again. But this step at least clarifies what a lot of children's centers need and, moreover, forgets that parents do not need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u43	Thank you. Do you still have a question about purpose and usefulness? Yes. Go ahead, Mrs. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u44	I think this is about purpose and usefulness. I was triggered by the two words 'almost exclusively'. I'm just trying to see it in front of me. Let's say I'm one of those kindergarten centers, and I'd like all the kids that are admitted to the hospital to be vaccinated, but there are also kids that I allow because they can't be vaccinated medically. When will I or will I not meet that category "almost exclusively"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u45	First of all, it's a choice whether you want to allow that exception in your policy or not. The childcare centres may also choose not to do so, but if they do, the law will allow them to do so, of course based on their policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u46	Ms. Postma, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u47	Am I supposed to see it quantified like that? Is that 1%, 2%, four kids, five kids?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u48	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But let's be honest: it doesn't make sense to say that you're a child center that almost doesn't allow unvaccinated children, and then you open the door wide. That quickly seems to me very bad advertising for the child center, all the more so because of course you are going to ask parents for proof of vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr Hijink for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u50	Right at this point. Of course, it's not about good or bad advertising for a daycare center. It's about the safety of a daycare center...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u51	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u52	...and children's health. My question is more or less the same. Does Mr Van Meenen actually say that we should leave it to the child centres themselves to refuse, for example, children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons? I think I just heard him say that. I have reservations about equality of law and how we deal with people who cannot do anything for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u53	The next block is about this point, about false safety and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u54	That's a nice little bridge to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u55	Am I wrong about the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u56	It is not so much a question of false security, but of the point made by Mrs Postma earlier. The applicant's answer was: we leave that to the centres themselves. The centres themselves determine their policies when it comes to admission and refusal. This also means, because the law does not provide for this, that centres can choose to refuse children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. Of that you can say: that is a distasteful choice, because those children cannot help it. But the law doesn't rule that these are excluded, for example. My question is: shouldn't that have been in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u57	No, the law does not regulate that, because this law gives a power to a child centre to develop policies there and register as a child centre that excludes all, or almost all, children without vaccination from admission. That's another choice between the two of them. That is what the child centre has to answer to the children, but of course also to the register. There must be a clear policy. But I do not know what Mr Hijink is advocating. Is he now arguing not to exclude children?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u58	This is what I'm talking about. Even in the situation where you would choose to take an equal measure for all daycare facilities... If it were up to me, for example, that would be mandatory vaccination for all daycare centres, if you fall below a certain limit. However, I believe that what Mr Van Meenen is doing now in this law is to build in the possibility that even children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons will be excluded from a place of childcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u59	Well, not at the daycare center, but at a child center. I'll put the question back a little bit. Mr Hijink says that he is working on a law in which children must be vaccinated. That sounds a bit like: it doesn't matter at all whether it can or can't, it just has to. There are children for whom there is an exception. That's what we agree on, I think. And indeed, in our bill, the child center can implement a policy on that. You may or may not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u60	I would just like to point out that there is another law in the making. Let's not talk about that law, but let's ask questions about this initiative law. Then we'll keep it clear. We don't know the other law either. And to anticipate that, it's a little confusing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u61	I agree. I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u62	I will give Mr Hijink one last chance to ask a follow-up question. Then I give the floor to Mrs Postma. I also hope for another point, otherwise we will be repeating ourselves a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u63	No, Mr. Chairman, that's not so bad. We are not going to repeat ourselves, we are trying to discuss a point just as well. I'm not talking about the law that's in the making, I'm talking about this law. I ask the author, Mr Van Meenen, whether it is true that he leaves it to centres whether or not they make an exception for children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. He says: we leave it to the centers; they can decide who they allow. This can also mean that a child centre decides that it does not allow any unvaccinated child, not even the children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. I think that's important. The law must be careful and clear. And that should mean that you exclude that group because they can't do anything about it. It's a very small group. In this case, this could mean that you are actually forcing children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons to go to a centre where they have a policy that also allows unvaccinated children. This means that these children are placed in a more unsafe situation without being able to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u64	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u65	That would be the case if all child centres in the Netherlands were to pursue such policies. I'm assuming that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u66	I would like to deepen this point, precisely because it is so important, and then look at it from the nursery or the childcare centre itself. In my view, this law is intended precisely to secure the childcare centre, also legally. In a city like The Hague, where I live, I have the choice of ten different shelters for my children. But in the village where I grew up, we even have to go to the village next door to get shelter. What if the shelter chooses to only allow vaccinated children? Isn't it true that a parent of a child who can't be vaccinated can go to court to show that he's being treated unfairly? Can the parent take that child care center to court? That's gonna give us a lot more uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u67	Parents can always go to court. What we are trying to achieve here is that this happens as little as possible. We want as much legal certainty as possible for the child centres, much more than is currently the case. And yes, it's no different than I've said so far. We leave that choice to the child centers. We rely on the wise judgment. Let me put it this way: if I were the owner of such a child center in your village, I would not choose a policy in which I would refuse such a child. I would find that extremely strange, but the law allows it. Because the law places an option on the holder. So it doesn't normalize itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u68	Ms. Postma, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u69	May I summarize it in such a way that you try to achieve certainty in one area, but get uncertainty on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u70	Well, that's not my summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Postma and Mr Bruins and Mr Van der Staaij raised the question of whether the legislative proposal does not achieve some sort of false safety. That word may have been taken from the Vermeij Committee. However, that committee has a strikingly different choice of words when discussing the legislative proposal on the one hand and its own red scenario on the other. In the first case, in the legislative proposal, it talks about false safety when it comes to preventing child care from children who are not vaccinated, because the basic risk of the introduction of measles remains. The Committee also notes in its own proposal, in the context of the red scenario, which, in the first instance, focuses only on childcare, that the introduction of measles in childcare is not excluded, but does not call this a sham safety, but says that the measure does not create complete safety. That really is a different terminology. If we look through this, there's just no difference. It is not for nothing that I keep talking about "the greatest possible" safety. In the explanatory memorandum and the note on the report, it has always been stressed that absolute security of safety cannot be achieved and that holders of child centres must properly inform parents of this risk. The final point is that the child centres where only children participating in the National Vaccination Programme are simply safer than those where other children are staying. Not 100% safe, but safer. Safety at children's centres is also an important condition for the protection of society as a whole. The Vermeij committee is apparently assuming this, because otherwise the committee would not have given child care such a central place in its proposals. In that case, her thoughts would have been more of a vaccination obligation for all children, regardless of whether or not they go to child care. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the vaccination rate per child center. He said it could just be that the vaccination rate is above 95%. But that can never be the case, as I correct Mr Van der Staaij, because of the age distribution at the children's centers and the age at which children are vaccinated. For this reason, the vaccination rate at childcare centres is on average around 75%. Children up to 14 months are not vaccinated. The point is, we don't know by kids' center at all. The children's centers themselves don't know and the parents don't know. With this bill, parents who are concerned and children's centers who want to provide children with the safest possible environment get an insight into this. I'm going to block 4: the risk of clustering unvaccinated children. Members Hermans, De Pater, Van Kooten-Arissen, Renkema, Hijink and Bruins... Excuse me, I said the Father: I have to get used to your name, Mrs. Postma. If you'd like, I'm gonna cross it out in the rest of the text first. Nice name. I understand the concerns of these Members and therefore I would like to start by stressing that clusters of unvaccinated children are of course already present at the moment, for example in what we sometimes call the "biblebelt'. It is and remains everyone's free choice to vaccinate. That is the case now, and that is not what the legislative proposal is going to change at all. However, I think it is very possible that this will lead the parents who are hesitant about whether or not to let their children's vaccine feathers go ahead and choose to have their children participate in the National Vaccination Programme. This should appeal to anyone who has advocated measures that could raise the vaccination rate. We see that in practice too. Where there is already a policy of refusal in childcare, for example in child care Berend Botje, we see that this leads to more parents vaccinating their child. If what we think is going to work is disappointing in the end, we will indeed have to think about a vaccination obligation throughout child care. I've reported that before. Even then, the question remains whether this will increase the national vaccination rate sufficiently, because parents have the right not to use childcare facilities. In the end, our legislative proposal puts the importance of parents who have their children vaccinated above the interests of children of parents who knowingly withdraw their children from the National Vaccination Programme. Then block 5, on the scope of the bill. I would like to answer a few questions about the scope of the bill. This concerns the position of the host parents, the host parents' agencies and the employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u73	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Postma. Do you have a question about the last block? Yeah? Mrs. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u74	I was just thinking about those fireplaces. I do not think we know very well how many childcare centres will use this if this law enters into force. If 80% or 90% is going to do so, what does that mean for the remaining 10%? Are they going to be completely filled with children who haven't been vaccinated? And what if 10% wants to participate in this bill? What about the vaccination rate for the remaining 90% of the daycare centers? Is that something you'd like to take a closer look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u75	We want to give parents and children the possibility of child care as safe as possible. Of course, absolute safety cannot be guaranteed, not even with a vaccination obligation, but this possibility of safe reception does not exist legally and we want to offer it quickly. We do not see the danger of clustering, as stated by some pediatricians. In practice, it is true that the group of parents who are in doubt about vaccination continues to vaccinate as a childcare centre which is now legally uncovered. We are open to further action, should clustering occur. I understand very well that parents of consciously unvaccinated children want to hide their children under the umbrella that all vaccinated children offer them, but D66 likes to separate the responsibilities: vaccinated children are not responsible for stopping that umbrella for unvaccinated children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u76	I'm still puzzled, because I'm trying to form an image of when we're going to intervene as a government. Of course, these childcare centres are not in the hands of the government, but as a government we do feel a responsibility for our entire Dutch population. So I'm looking a little bit. So we're gonna monitor what percent is where? Are we gonna keep an active eye on that? Is that where we're gonna send some extra communication programs or other stuff?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u77	I have already indicated in my previous reply to Mrs Postma that... I forgot what I indicated. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I've lost my touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u78	It's the name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u79	Yeah, exactly. I'm more concerned with Postma than with the question. The question is, are we gonna monitor? My point is that it is still a question of whether so much is going to change. If that's the case, we're gonna see it. But I'm gonna turn it around, too. We are in the process of making child centers as safe as possible. There remains the possibility for each parent to vaccinate the child. It is not a duty to do your child at a child center that has no policy in this area, or that allows all children who have not been vaccinated. In our proposal we choose that first group: people who want to do the best they can. Any unvaccinated child entering a centre where all children over 14 months of age have been vaccinated is a risk to the health of those others. That is a risk that is actually taken consciously when you register your child for a child center that allows unvaccinated children. That's the problem. So it is very much a question of what exactly is going to happen here. In any case, we choose the first group of parents who want to do the most for safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u80	I'll take a look at Mrs. Postma to see if that's enough. Any last questions about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u81	I am still looking, because I have the feeling that the effects of this bill in different scenarios have not yet been carefully considered. Quite frankly, I'm kind of looking for what happens when this law comes into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u82	I have already said that there are children's centres in certain regions where the majority of them have not been vaccinated. We focus on making as many child centers as possible as safe as possible. That's what this law's for. Tonight we have to decide whether we want to. I have already said that this will also lead to all kinds of discussions at other child centres. Parents will ask questions about that. It's okay to expect all this to work out. The aim of this bill is not to increase the vaccination rate. The aim is to ensure that children's centres have a policy that is as safe as possible for the children who come there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u84	I believe that 'as many safe child centres as possible' is a new objective. I believe that the original objectives were transparency in the sector and freedom of choice for parents. If the objective is "as many safe child centres as possible," then Mr Van Meenen assumes that most centres will choose to pursue a policy of refusing unvaccinated children. That seems to me to be the starting point if that is the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u85	You are right that this is not the objective, but it was about the expected effects. The effect may well be, and I hope so too, that the policy we are making possible here is going to be applied by a lot of child centres. You are right, therefore, that this is not the objective of the law, but it could be an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u86	Then I come to my actual question. The point is that Mr Van Meenen very easily assumes that this law, if it were there, would encourage parents to still have their child vaccinated when the child goes to a care facility that pursues a policy of admitting all children, including unvaccinated children. So, if there is a risk, I'll let my child vaccinate, just to be safe, because if there are relatively many unvaccinated children, then at least mine will be vaccinated. I think that is a wonderful reasoning, especially since children up to 14 months cannot be protected from all diseases. So how does Mr Van Meenen view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u87	Children up to 14 months are indeed the most at risk. I hope that Mr Hijink agrees with me that they are less at risk at a child centre where all the other children have been vaccinated than the other way around. It is therefore not my intention to necessarily do something about child centres where unvaccinated children are also welcome. I'd like to give all the parents to think about that very carefully. I think the effect will be that many more parents will be aware that it is important to bring your child to a child center that has the policy not to accept children without vaccination. That's a possible consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u88	I come to the same point of what was just called "fireplaces." I think that Mr Van Meenen is going over that a little easily by saying that parents who choose to have a safe nursery should be looked at in particular. Because meant or unintentionally, parents, who say they don't think this is so important, may be looking for each other. This leads to a crèche where the vaccination rate is much lower than desired. That is a danger not only for their children, but for all children up to 14 months. Then that umbrella is gone, which would otherwise be there. The word " Umbrella" was just used by Mr Van Meenen. It sounds a bit like you say: that's not really our concern; it's about the parents who want to opt for a safe nursery. Driven from public health, I think that's a rather wondrous point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u89	I am at least so concerned about the children of parents who do not have their child vaccinated; let that be crystal clear. But what I do not choose is to risk having parents who do not have their child vaccinated receiving it by parents who do choose to provide their child with maximum safety. I don't want to. That's why I make that comparison with an umbrella. It is quite easy to drive when you say: I will not have my child inoculated, but I would like to use the "safety" offered at another child center. That's hiding under the umbrella of people who do opt for vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u90	I share that concern, but I'm concerned about its effects. When more and more crèches demand that they only want vaccinated children, this means that parents can also choose to say that this crèche does not fit them and that they are looking for another crèche. There's no umbrella there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u91	Excuse me? I don't understand the latter. "There's no umbrella?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u92	There's no umbrella there, because there won't be a 95%...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u93	No, but it's still a choice for the parents to have their child vaccinated or not. That is also a choice, let me give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u94	We're still in the block of reach, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u95	No, it's coming now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u96	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u97	You did get there in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u98	Then I'll do it now, in response to the last answer. Mr Van Meenen is absolutely right: it is a choice of parents to vaccinate or not. But the choice is not entirely free when you have a son or a daughter who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. That is precisely why the 95% vaccination rate is so important. That 95% objective is important because it is the organisation of group protection. In that context, I would like to put a question to Mr Van Meenen. Do I understand correctly that it starts with the responsibility of parents, the choice for parents to vaccinate or not, but that your son or daughter also if you would want to vaccinate, but not able to vaccinate, should not go to a childcare facility that has as its policy: no access for unvaccinated children?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u99	I have already given an answer to that, namely that there is a choice. But I promise you, just in case, I'll ask if that's the policy. Then we can come back to that in the second term. I understand your question, but I do assume that the policy will be "too much," and so there is also "too much to have virtually all vaccinated children." That possibility has been deliberately incorporated into this law, because it would also be too rude for us to say: you can only handle one of two predicates; either you only take vaccinated children, or not. That is exactly what we want to offer. But I promise you that I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u100	There are indeed several Members who have asked questions about this. Mr Van Meenen will therefore come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u101	I want to give the answer as precise as possible. It'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u102	I think that would be very good, thank you very much. Mrs. Postma, aren't you still talking about the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yes, I was reminded by the interrupting debate just about the umbrella. Mr Van Meenden said quite clearly: we want to protect the parents who choose to protect it and give security the word "protect" was used and the other group was used a little less. Then I thought, "Yeah, but it's about the kids you want to protect, isn't it? And they are in both groups! I'm also a lot worried about that umbrella that disappears.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u104	Let's face it, me too. That's what I'm really worried about. But that umbrella is only formed by the parents who have their child vaccinated. I hope we can agree on that. The parents who do not have their children vaccinated do not contribute to that umbrella. Then I think it goes rather far to say: with the risk that this might lead to clustering, we should also allow unvaccinated children on those other crèches so that they can hide under the umbrella. If I have to make that choice, I choose the parents who do. That's really bad for those kids, too. No misunderstanding about it, but it's their parents' choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you. Mrs. Postma, finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u106	I'm a little freaked out about this. I would actually prefer to say: let us make this umbrella bigger, through other measures, or let us at least ensure that these children have an umbrella.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u107	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u108	Yeah, I'm fine. Well, I'd like some answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u109	You don't even need a question. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u110	That's the discussion we're having here. Or do you want to ask another question? Sorry, Chairman. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u111	No, I think we made it pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u112	Do you want me to answer you or do you want to ask a question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u113	We also have viewers, don't we? They also like it when we make explicit what's going on between you. Also to prevent us from repeating ourselves. Ms. Postma, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u114	My question was: what is the purpose of this law? I see that sometimes shift a little bit, that you actually want to move that umbrella to one children's center, while I would like to aim at ensuring that everyone can stay under an umbrella.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u115	I'd like that, too. Excuse me, you still haven't asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u116	Maybe the interruptions can also be a little shorter. Your question, again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u117	My question is whether Mr Van Meenen does not agree with me that this umbrella will really shift too much to the children of parents who consciously inoculate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u118	To the children who make up that umbrella, because that's what it comes down to. For my party, the goals we would like to achieve in this area are far beyond what is happening now. I also wish all children could live under such an umbrella. This law isn't about that. It's not about increasing the vaccination rate. It is only about whether a children's centre should refuse unvaccinated children, in the context of transparency about parents' policies and freedom of choice. That's what it's about, about nothing more and nothing less. If we have to take measures to increase the vaccination rate, for example, that could be the result of this law, but we do not know that we have to do other things. Then you'll find me by your side again when we do. But let us not have the illusion that we are doing this with, for example, more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u119	Thank you. Now I really want to ask you to go to the fifth block, the block about the scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u120	Yes. I would like to answer a few questions about the scope of the bill. This concerns the positions of the host parents and host parents and those of the employees. Mr Van Dijk asked for a response to his justified remark that workers cannot be vaccinated and can pose a danger. This has been taken into account in the legislative proposal. The holder of a children's centre who wishes to pursue a policy of allowing only children participating in the National Vaccination Programme will also have to make that requirement to his staff. That is also stated in the proposal. Mr van Dijk and Mr Renkema and Mrs Postma asked why the host care was not included in the bill. The pragmatic considerations underlying this have already been set out in the note on the basis of the report. In other words, the legislative proposal should have been considerably more complicated if it had to be extended to host care, while the initiator wanted to make a legislative amendment as soon as possible with the lightest possible measures. Here too, the better would be the enemy of good. In addition, the host parents and their agencies are free to use as policies only for receiving vaccinated children. If they are to be subject to a legal risk, the legislative proposal is indeed significant, even if it does not explicitly extend to host care. If the law provides for children's centres to be able to distinguish in their admission policy between children who are or are not vaccinated, even if this would lead to indirect discrimination on the basis of religion or belief, it is in fact inconceivable that a judge would find that such a distinction by a host parent would not be justified. In any case, therefore, there will be no unequal playing field between host parents and children's centres. Also seen from the freedom of choice of parents I see no problem. Parents may inform their intended host parents of the state of vaccination of the children receiving the host parents. If the law has the effect that there are still few child centres in a particular area where unvaccinated children can go, it could be an advantage for the sake of parental choice that host care could offer an alternative rather quickly and easily. This approach is in line with a legislative proposal which I have already said very quickly and which seeks to introduce rather light measures in line with the responsibility of the holders of children's centres and with the concerns of parents. However, I admit that there is no good reason to treat children's centers and host care differently when it comes to more mandatory measures being imposed by the government. Mr. Chairman. The legal aspects. To justify indirect discrimination requires a legitimate purpose. Now I come to a question that Mr Hijink wanted to ask a long time ago. He saw a problem at that point. He appealed to the Council of State. The Vermeij Committee also made comments on this, albeit more generally. That is why I should like to address this first. The committee says that the more far-reaching a measure is, the stronger the justification requirements must be, and that measures restricting freedom require legal guarantees and firm medical and ethical support. I agree, however, that, depending on the objective of the measure, justifications other than health protection may be important. However, I noticed that the committee does not deal with this rule consistently. The committee did not examine what measure would be more or less far-reaching, but essentially equates the proposed legislative proposal with the option chosen by the committee itself in its red scenario, namely mandatory vaccination of all children in childcare. And then the committee concludes that the measures in this legislative proposal should be reviewed in the same way as the committee's own proposal. That conclusion is totally inappropriate, because the legislative proposal has very different objectives, with other justifications. And since the legislative proposal is far less radical than the committee's proposal, no one's freedom is restricted. The legislative proposal does not go beyond allowing holders of a children's centre to distinguish in their admission policy between well- and unvaccinated children, even if that would lead to indirect discrimination based on religion or belief. This is far less serious than requiring public authorities to allow anyone who wants to take his child to child care to vaccinate their children, even if their religion or beliefs oppose it. Here we come to the voting opinion to Mr Van der Staaij from just now on. In doing so, the Committee's proposal directly restricts the freedom of religion and belief. And for that to happen, public health protection could provide a basis for justice, but that indeed requires a strong medical basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u121	Mr Hijink is on the Interrupt Microphone, but I think it would be useful if Mr Van Meenen could finish this legal block first. Then you will have every opportunity to respond, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u122	However, that does not apply to this bill. After all, the objectives are quite different. It is a question of market transparency and parental choice, and of allowing indirect discrimination on the basis of religion or belief. The Committee is right to point out that parents' concerns cannot be a legitimate objective for the imposition of a vaccination obligation. However, this does not rule out the possibility that citizens' concerns may give rise to all kinds of other forms of government intervention. It happens all the time. It is an explicit part of the task assigned to the Vermeij Committee. The present legislative proposal assumes that transparency in the market in children's centres can reduce parents' concerns about the safety of children. Therefore, achieving this transparency has become the first objective of the legislative proposal. The nature of that objective is such that it is certainly not only whether public health should be considered primarily as a justification for achieving that objective. The explanatory memorandum states that the legitimate purpose in this respect lies in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Children have the right to protection and care, particularly in terms of their health. And the government has a duty to inform parents about factors that can affect their child's health, and to ensure that parents can make informed choices about their child's health. It is a pity that this crucial passage on page 3 of the explanatory memorandum seems to have escaped the Council of State. The explanation for this is probably that the Council, like Mr Hijink, has been guided by the idea that a bill that would lead directly to a higher vaccination rate would be more practical than the present bill. But this bill has a different objective. Achieving this objective also has practical value. I have said all that I need to say. This objective achieves the fundamental rights of children and their parents, which have just been mentioned. It is therefore also a question of the justification of the rights and freedoms of others. And with that, that objective is perfectly legitimate. I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about the wording of the new paragraph of Rule 1.49a. He asked the question whether it was too general. I don't think so. In any case, the wording is much more limited than many exceptions provided for in the General Law on Equal Treatment, in particular in Articles 2 and 3. The third paragraph of Article 1.49a applies only to any indirect distinction between children who have been vaccinated or have not been vaccinated when they are admitted to children's centres. That is why it is not included in the General Law on Equal Treatment, but in the Childcare Act. Nor does it refer to making indirect distinction on all grounds of equal treatment under the General Law, but only on the basis of religion or belief. Mr President, I must disappoint you, because it will continue for a while. I thought I was almost there, but I have one more page. Mr Van der Staaij also asked whether there could be no situations in which a balance of interests should lead to no distinction being made. He mentioned a number of examples. The legislative proposal takes this into account by allowing the holder of a children's centre not only but almost exclusively vaccinated staff and children. He can therefore apply a hardness clause, but that is his policy. He can or may choose to be stricter. It is essentially a question of whether the requirements of proportionality are still met if the holder of a children's centre chooses a strict policy in which no exceptions are possible, thereby making an indirect distinction on the basis of religion or belief. I believe that is the case. Parents of non-vaccined children can indeed assert all kinds of interests which make them want to see their child admitted to a children's centre that only allows vaccinated children. But with every unvaccinated child admitted to such a children's centre, I can't say it often enough. The level of protection at the children's centre is decreasing. The possible consequences will be borne by the other children and their parents residing there. These are parents who strive to minimise health risks for their child and therefore not only participate in the National Vaccination Programme, but also opt for a child centre as safe as possible. Such a burden-sharing would be unmistakably disproportionate. I understand that Mr Bruins would like to see the wording of the provision justifying indirect discrimination on the basis of religion or belief limited to only discrimination based on belief in life. I'm not going in there with him. In Dutch law religion and belief are almost always aligned, and rightly so, because there is rarely a good reason not to offer religion and belief the same level of protection. I do not see any reason to deviate from this in this case of a very slight breach of that protection. It is therefore of no importance to me whether the group of those whose objections to participation in the National Vaccination Programme are religious in nature is smaller than the group with philosophical objections or vice versa. That was block five.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u124	It's about the point at the very beginning. Mr Van Meenen says that the Vermeij Committee actually equates this law with legislation that would make far-reaching proposals, for example a general vaccination obligation in childcare, but that is absolutely unjustified. I think he is right that the objective of his law is different from a far-reaching vaccination obligation in child care. Only, the final effect of his law could be almost the same. Obviously, when I hear him then, that is indeed the purpose of the law, namely as many safe children's centres as possible, as many centres as possible that opt for a policy of refusing unvaccinated children. You can do that fine, but that does mean that, even though it is not the goal, the effect is the same. Then my question is: is there a legitimate purpose in this law that justifies making an indirect distinction, including on the basis of belief or religion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u125	I have just said that I said in my enthusiasm that this was a goal, but I took it back very explicitly afterwards. That's not the point. This law serves only two objectives: transparency and freedom of choice for parents. Those are the only targets. In that part of the debate, it was about the question to which it might lead, for example, that more children's centres might opt for such a policy. That's something else. I would find that a joyous development in itself, but it is not an end in itself. Here the legitimate purpose lies in the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u126	The point is that, in my view, this is not a legitimate objective to make this distinction. I'd like to hear the cabinet about that later. If you are looking for a legitimate way of making an indirect distinction that violates equal treatment as it were, it must be a high-quality objective, for example, the protection of children in childcare, or, for example, the protection of public health. The ultimate objectives of this law, namely transparency and freedom of choice, are not the legitimate objectives that can be used to justify indirect discrimination. I believe that there is a serious problem with the law of the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u127	I'm not gonna repeat my words, but the legitimate goal is here in "I want to call the title right; sorry, let's see, which one is it? In the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Children have a right to protection and care. That's the legitimate goal I'm quoting. I have also said that this will become stricter as the measures taken become more stringent, for example if there is a mandatory nature or if the integrity of the body could be violated. That's what the Vermeij Committee itself says. But we are talking about a very different kind of proposal. This must also have a different legal basis, but the measures taken here are so light that in our view this legitimacy basis can be sufficient. But we can differ on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u128	Mr. Hijink, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u129	This is a very close listen. We have just established that the aim of this law is transparency in the sector and freedom of choice for parents. That's the goal. But immediately afterwards, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child are added when it comes to protecting the health of the child. According to Mr Van Meenen, this is the legitimate objective that justifies this measure and this law. Those two things can't exist side by side. You cannot say "the purpose of the law is transparency and freedom of choice" and at the same time say: the ultimate goal, namely the legitimate objective, is to protect the health of the child. If that is the objective that I very much agree with - it should have been in the law. Then that should have been the purpose of the law and not the other two more market-oriented consumer goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u130	I don't think we're gonna agree, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u131	I am looking at Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u132	But it is indeed a key point, I think. I therefore support Mr Hijink on this point. If your objective is explicitly defined as transparency and freedom of choice, and it is still, on the left or right, a certain restriction of fundamental rights, then the restriction of those fundamental rights must also be justified on the basis of the objective of transparency or freedom of choice. Otherwise, the petitioner actually eats off both sides by saying on the one hand 'no, it is not the aim to increase security', but on the other hand when it comes to saying the legal appreciation that it is actually about that security. Then I have the question: is safety a direct objective of this bill or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u133	No, that's not a direct target. There are only two targets. I've mentioned them several times. Those are the two goals. Therefore, a slight justification can be enough, I will bless. That is our reasoning. We find this in the fact that a child is entitled to protection and care. We're going for the kid. In our view, this is a step forward for the child. This can then be notified to a child centre which may adopt a policy of refusing non-vaccinated children. That's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u134	Then I come to the same conclusion as Mr Hijink, which is that I do not think it is logical that you should set a different target than you then use as a containment ground. We do not agree on that, but that has become clear, I think. Let me come back to the letter of amendment and the point that is said in any case: an indirect distinction based on religion or belief is justified. Mr Van Meenen just discussed the examples I mentioned. One is the situation where a child has already had childhood diseases and parents also have religious objections, but there is no longer really a risk of infection from that child. Then why, by definition, would it be justified to refuse such a child?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u135	I do not quite understand Mr Van der Staaij's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u136	Suppose that parents do have religious objections to vaccination, but the child has already had childhood diseases, and the nearest child care where a wider admission policy is applied is very far away. In that case, would it indeed be justified by definition, as the law now says, that you are making an indirect distinction to the freedom of religion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u137	I do not want to interfere with that question at all. The law gives childcare facilities the opportunity to introduce sensible policies there, and that will be the case. If, for any reason, it is excluded, however, I am neither a lawyer nor a doctor, or a doctor, that a child can in any way form an infection scare, which seems very unlikely to me to the age of children in child care, I say from my own experience, then that could be possible, but I do not believe that a child cannot be a infection scare if it has not been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u138	But in a legal sense... If a child has had measles, it does not need to be vaccinated, because then there is no risk of infection, even for itself. However, the point is that Mr Van Meenen says that there is a hardness clause. I understand that, in his view, the daycare centres are not obliged to apply a hardness clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u139	Yes, that is the question I will come back to in the second term, to be precise. Yes, it is, I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u140	If they are not obliged to do so, then in the long term the debate could arise whether, if they do not, it would be an unnecessary violation of fundamental rights. Then we have another legally complex situation, so the law doesn't really create clarity. Then it's still legally complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u141	As with most laws in the Netherlands, the law cannot foresee all the situations we will ever encounter. Otherwise, all the laws we have would be enough by now. We are constantly adjusting laws to reality here. That's what we do here. What we are doing here is allowing for a policy in which children's centres can opt for total or virtually total refusal of children who have not been vaccinated. For that "almost" there will have to be a very good ground, also in the eyes of other parents. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u142	Then we go to the block of implementation aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u143	We're approaching the end, Mr. Chairman. Block 7, the implementation aspects. This concerns the administrative burden, registrations and privacy and possible control. Mr Hermans, Mr Agema, Mr Postma, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Renkema and Mr Bruins asked questions about this. This issue, too, has already been given very detailed consideration in the paper on the report. It states that there are essentially two possibilities: one without and one with registration. The simplest possibility is for the child centre to include the date of birth at the date of notification of the child in the contract concluded with the parents, requesting access to the evidence of the vaccinations which the child must have already received in accordance with the schedule of the National vaccination programme. The child centre then keeps a calendar of the dates on which parents should be asked to see the evidence of the following vaccinations in the National vaccination programme. On that calendar it can be checked that the conversation with the parents took place and nothing else. In that case no registration of personal data is kept and the administrative burden is negligible. In the second possibility, however, a registration of vaccination certificates is kept. The parents' consent is necessary for copying and storing vaccination certificates. After all, it is sensitive personal data? This variant brings with it some more administrative burdens and costs. An auditor or a certifying body will then have to carry out an annual audit of the administration and make a statement that the administration shows that a child centre employs exclusively or almost exclusively staff and that children have been present who have been shown to participate in the National Vaccination Programme. The note following the report also states that trust plays an important role in the relationship between children's centres and parents. That starts with the fact that the baby or toddler is entrusted for much of the day to people who are primarily for the parents, but also for the child strangers. Of course, the employees of a children's centre are aware of this and will do everything in their power to show that they are worthy of that trust. I believe that, in this spirit of confidence, it is quite possible that parents, who have been asked by the children's centre to prove that their child received the next vaccination from the National vaccination programme, will trust the children's centre when it says that it does so to all parents. If children's centers do not do so, they risk not only their reputation, but also their liability. The Vermeij Committee is right to point that out. Nevertheless, that committee doubts whether holders of children's centres will apply their own policy of refusal purely. Because, as the committee literally points out, a holder also benefits from new customers. In doing so, the Committee ignores the fact that the essence of a refusal policy is that the holder himself chooses not to serve part of his potential customers. But what is worse is that the committee here actually puts away a whole industry, in which thousands of parents entrust their children every day, as commercial scams. I hope that the Secretary of State, who is concerned with this matter, will take the necessary distance from it. She can find it on page 33 of the Vermeij report. I believe that the choice for one or the other variant described by me can be left to the holders of children's centres. In the design of the bill it is up to them to opt for a particular admission policy. They may themselves assess whether parents have sufficient confidence in a careful implementation of their admission policy or whether it requires a form of external supervision. They can arrange that external supervision themselves, or they can do so together with others in an industry association. But even then, parents will never be allowed to see the vaccination data of other children in the children's centre. This is far too sensitive personal data. It remains therefore a matter of trust in the children's centre or in the certification body. This will only be changed if the government dictates to the children's centres which children are or are not admitted. Then it becomes a matter of trust in the government, because then the government will have to check compliance with the legal obligations. But that is not the issue in the legislative proposal before us. Mrs. Agema asked what childcare centres should do with cheating parents. As explained above, parents should be able to show evidence of vaccination to the holder of the children's centre at the desired time. This is proof of the RIVM that is being initialled by the staff member of the GGD who puts the vaccination. Is such evidence by someone who wants to forge evil? Yeah, sure. Fraudsters are now able to falsify passports including fingerprints, holograms and other security safeguards. I have no illusion that this would not work with a simple vaccination certificate. Another question is whether I think it is likely that parents who have objections to vaccinate are prepared to cheat to place their child at a children's center with a completely different view of the matter. I think it's more obvious that these people are looking for a children's center of their own. In addition, many parents will not risk losing the spot for their child if their fraud comes to light. Mrs Hermans has asked me whether I can see the way in which the Berend Bottje children's centre operates. I have already said a few things about the implementation. In the end, of course, it is up to the children's center to determine what that execution looks like. If they're inspired by the way Berend Botje does this, I understand that, but it's up to the children's centers. Finally. Mr Renkema asked whether a so-called vaccination passport could mean anything in its implementation. Perhaps, is my answer, but this is beyond the scope of the bill. Basically showing a vaccination certificate is enough, as I explained before. I'm coming to my closure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u144	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u145	We had asked a question about the administrative burden. I always like to see what it actually looks like. So I would simply like to ask whether a calculation has been made of this. Let's take a day care center where kids sit from 0 to 4. That means three shots. If it's a nursery that has 100 kids on it, we've already got 300 moments a year. That's almost one a day. Then that leader has to go there and ask: will you take your vaccination certificate, because I see on the calendar that you have been or should have been? Maybe it'll be forgotten four times. In short, those leaders are already 1,200 times busy just asking for a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mr Van Meenen on the regulatory burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u147	I did not immediately calculate the calculation, but it is clear that it requires a number of actions per child. But of course it is about a period of years in which these three acts, as Mrs Postma herself says, must be carried out. You can find much or little of that. I think that the childcare workers have bigger problems with their children than once in such a long time to see if the vaccination certificate is in order. The only thing that needs to be done is a simple check mark. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u148	May I conclude from this that you didn't pass on the scenarios? Because this seems like a very simple answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u149	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u150	I have a question about registration control. I'm a little surprised that the law doesn't actually regulate supervision: when a daycare center says that it only allows vaccinated children, is that right? I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen why he did not choose to do so. Suppose one chooses to pursue a policy of refusal. Then there must be a certain control of that, either by the GGD or by another agency? Then there is certainty instead of false certainty, because that is the risk. If you put it all the way to the centers themselves, then there is the risk that parents will still not know exactly if it is all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u151	I could keep a whole story here about trust. My own wallet is education. There we can also always come up with a lot of things that we ask for extra, actually because there is a lack of trust. But there's something very specific going on here. Every parent experiences what happens. They can see for themselves that that control is taking place. I therefore believe that this should give all the necessary confidence. I don't feel like asking all kinds of extra control questions from the government side right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u152	For example, when it comes to the electrical sockets, the stair gates and the question of whether there are enough employees on a group, there is simply supervision. That's in the hands of the G.D.D. It is also very good that this monitoring is in place. So it would be very logical that there should be some kind of supervision if you were to take such an important measure when it comes to refusal and vaccination policy? I'm not saying that someone has to check every tick every day, but I'm saying there's got to be some kind of surveillance. That should have been regulated in the law. That's pretty obvious, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u153	I do not share that view. Because why are these things mentioned throughout the supervisory framework? Why are those things? Because parents don't have any eyes on it. They have no idea what they should be like to be safe. But what they do have a picture of is what they themselves are going through with security policy, namely that control of vaccination. They experience that themselves. The inspection must do exactly what parents cannot do. That's the way it is in education. This is typically a point where parents themselves are the object of control by the children's center. That is why they can also be confident that this applies not only to them, but also to the other parents. So I see no role for the government in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u154	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u155	But that's just about their own kid, right? You're not in control of other children's vaccination papers, are you? It is strange to say: because I have handed over a booklet stating that my child has been vaccinated, I am now sure that it is all in order within the entire center, on which hundreds of children can sit. It's not so crazy that it's going to have to be monitored by the GGD or by another agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u156	I have made it clear that I believe that this relationship should have a certain degree of confidence. It seems logical to me that, as a parent, when you notice that the policy is in your direction that you are being asked about vaccination certificates, it will be in the direction of all other parents, because I don't know why it should be different in the direction of other parents. I think that these parents also understand very well that they are not an exception, but that all parents are asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u157	I think we were promised a nice final word more than an hour and a half ago. I don't know if Mr Van Meenen is ready for that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u158	Yeah, sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u159	I do not have the answer to a question I asked in the first term. Is the petitioner prepared to evaluate this law on its effects in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u160	I think I may have missed something. Allow me to look for that answer, because I have a wonderful answer for you. I need to take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u161	Is it all right if Mr Van Meenen comes back to that in the second term? I see Mr Renkema nodding. Then you need your final word, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u162	We'll get to that in a minute. Yes, the expectations of that final word are now very high. Mr. Chairman. Young parents ask us every day when our bill will come into effect. They want to bring their child to child care as safe as possible. This law also benefits childcare centres. They do not have to doubt whether they should refuse unvaccinated children. Showing a vaccination certificate is enough for the parents. Many parents who do not have their children vaccinated are not convinced anti-vaxers, but they do doubt. By having childcare centres set a standard, we may be talking to the doubters. Again, that is not a goal, but perhaps a consequence. The childcare centres that have had the courage to refuse unvaccinated children without legal cover also indicate that they lose virtually no parents and children. D66 is open to more far-reaching measures than this law, no misunderstanding about it, but more far-reaching legislation takes time, while many children now benefit from safer childcare, without unnecessary unvaccinated children around them. That is why we want to introduce our law, which makes this possible, as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u163	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Before you sit down, there is another question from Mr Hijink about the final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u164	Yeah, especially about the entry date the petitioner has in mind. I imagine you're dealing with a certain transitional period. You can't just ask centers to inoculate all their employees as of tomorrow or so. How does the petitioner view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u165	Would it be okay if I included that in the second term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u166	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Then we've come to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u167	I'll clean up my mess. Well, junk...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u168	Sure, take your time. There are two directors present today to advise the Chamber. I see that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment is the first to speak. The Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport will then act as advisor. I call the Secretary of State for SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr President, thank you very much. I would very much like to start by thanking Mr Raemakers, because he has worked with great commitment and passion on this important initiative proposal. He has put this important issue on the agenda of the Chamber. I wish him a very prosperous recovery. I hope that we will soon be able to discuss this issue and many other issues in good health. I would also, of course, like to thank Mr Van Meenen for the way in which he accepted today's answer to the questions on and the defence of the initiative proposal. Of course, I would also like to thank Mrs De Boer, Mr Linthorst and Mr Meijer, who have supported the author. The aim of this initiative proposal is to provide transparency on the position of childcare organisations in order to refuse children who have not been vaccinated. Parents can thus make an informed choice. Preliminary draft: the cabinet understands the concerns and the social debate that is currently taking place between parents and childcare organisations, as well as in the Chamber. Parents want to be able to trust that their children are safe at the shelter, because nothing is more precious than your children. I thought Mr Van Meenen said that very nicely. Childcare organisations expect clarity from the government. They'd like a clear stance on vaccination. It is precisely from this shared concern that the cabinet has asked the Vermeij Committee to present all these legal, medical, ethical and practical aspects of vaccination in child care. Tonight, a lot of these dilemmas came along. I'll be back on the committee later. I shall begin by expressing the opinion of the cabinet on this initiative proposal. In this way, I also respond to the question by the Christian Union on how the report of the Vermeij Committee looks at this initiative proposal. I am also prepared to look at the amendment tabled by Mr Hijink, but I understand that there is still some movement in that, so I will let that depend on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u170	I give the floor to Mr Hijink to respond to his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u171	Yeah, let's clear that up right now. We're going to withdraw that amendment. I think it's pretty logical that we do. It is well known that I am working on a law with Mrs Hermans. That is much more work than an amendment, I can assure you. That law will also be much better than this amendment. So I think it would be a good idea to take that amendment off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u172	The Heink amendment (Doc. 11) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u173	Fine, Mr. Chairman. Then I, as well as my colleague, the Secretary of State of the United States of America, will then answer the other questions that were asked to us during the first period of the proceedings. I now come to a number of comments from the cabinet on the initiative proposal. These are derived from the response of the Council of State to the initiative proposal, but also from the opinion of the Vermeij Committee and from the cabinet response we have sent to this opinion. I'll handle them in that order. I'll start with the Council of State. In its opinion, the Council of State made a number of critical comments on the initiative proposal. Among other things, he wondered whether the real solution was not to increase the vaccination rate. He also states that childcare organisations do not need an explicit legal basis for refusing children who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme. Childcare organisations are private companies that can decide for themselves who they supply their services or products to. In other words, what the initiator is trying to achieve with the initiative legislative proposal can already be achieved at the moment. However, childcare organisations are bound by the General Law on Equal Treatment and Privacy Law. In addition, the Council of State wonders whether this proposal should not allow childcare organisations to register, since the various vaccinations from the National vaccination programme are given at different ages. The initiator responded to the opinion of the Council of State and indicated that he did not accept many of these comments. As a result, the cabinet is not convinced by the reaction of the initiator. I come to the recommendations of the Vermeij Committee. The Committee has mapped out various options for action in its opinion Pikken for each other. In doing so, it has formulated a number of general principles in order to be able to weigh and assess the various options for action. The committee has indicated, per scenario, green, orange or red, what the desirable action options are. Finally, the Committee has indicated which action options are undesirable in each of the scenarios. The Committee considers that the action option whereby childcare is given the right to refuse children who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme is undesirable. It indicates that the action option does not comply with some of its general principles. Firstly, the solution to the problem is given to the sector, while the committee has set out as its starting point that the primary responsibility for taking action lies with the public authorities, and not with childcare. Protection of public health is a public task. Furthermore, the Committee, like the Council of State, states that providing transparency and parents' concerns are not sufficient grounds for legal action. With the Committee, the cabinet feels it is undesirable for the public debate on the vaccination rate to be moved from the public domain to the childcare organisations, because holders are made responsible for the solution. In addition, the Cabinet sees risks of clustering children who have not been vaccinated, which can increase infectious disease risks. For the green and orange scenarios, the Committee recommends that communication and information be further developed. And for the red scenario, she recommends that a legislative proposal be prepared which regulates that if the vaccination rate falls below a pre-defined lower limit, children who do not participate in the National vaccination programme will no longer have access to child care. Your Chamber received the cabinet response in October last year. In this context, my colleague and I have expressed our support for the committee's opinion and our desire to find out the necessary questions. In fact, it has been outlined in the response that the development of a number of issues is still quite complex. Should we assume, for example, a national or a local vaccination rate? Should the advice apply to all forms of reception? How is the implementation designed, including with regard to privacy issues? In the cabinet response we indicated that information on some of these issues will be requested from the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the petitioner: parents want and can also trust that their children are safe in child care. Childcare organisations want nothing more than that from their professional involvement. Although the cabinet understands the proposals of the initiator and we are following the political and social debate on them with great commitment, we regret that this proposal is not proportionate and in its feasibility very complex. That is the reason why the cabinet is dissuading this initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. The one about judgment. I would like to answer a number of questions from my child care portfolio. Then the Secretary of State will answer the questions on public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u174	I'll take a look at the room. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u175	In the fear that this question will be answered shortly, but this is actually about equal treatment. The Secretary of State says that what the petitioner wants can already be done. Centres can already have a refusal policy. Does the Cabinet consider that this law would add something, in the sense that centres or parents would be stronger with this law if the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, the European Convention on Human Rights or the General Law on Equal Treatment were reviewed? Does that change anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u176	That is indeed a very complex question, on which we have not in vain asked the committee for advice. In the current situation, an organization can make policy and it is ultimately up to the judge to determine whether it is proportionate. And what the Vermeij committee is now saying is that it is actually proportional only to make a choice if there is a specific situation, namely if we come under the standard of vaccination. This is, by the way, a standard that must be set by the government. It is then justified to take a different view in the context of that General Law on Equal Treatment. That is why the government also says: we want to prepare a law in case the red situation occurs, but not in the case of this situation. Nor do we regard this law as proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u177	I understand. This therefore affects the legitimate or non-legitimate purpose described in the law. I ask the question again just to be sure, because it is not entirely clear to me. If this law were to be passed and someone would go to court because there is a policy of refusal, would children's centres and parents be stronger if there were a review of the General Equal Treatment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u178	My guess isn't that parents are stronger with this law in their hand. Mr Hijink............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He asked me that question in the first place. As stated in the explanatory memorandum of this initiative proposal, this bill is not intended to protect children, but to clarify to holders by creating a legal ground for them to ward off unvaccinated children. In addition, this initiative proposal also leaves room for unvaccinated children to go to an alternative childcare facility that does not prevent unvaccinated children. Therefore, as far as the government is concerned, it cannot be said that this bill contributes to the protection of all children. Mrs Hermans asked me how the initiative proposal provides for the recording of data and the monitoring of implementation, and asked me to take into account the comments made by the Council of State. I have already said a number of things about this, but I say explicitly in response to this question: the Council of State has made a number of critical comments on the initiative proposal in its opinion. He asked, among other things, whether this proposal should not allow childcare organisations to register because vaccinations are given at different ages. It is also inadequate in terms of monitoring and enforcement. Since many comments have not been taken up, I see major problems in relation to issues relating to privacy and implementation; complex issues for child care holders, which are not sufficiently developed as far as we are concerned. Mrs Postma asked if I would be prepared to make a quick scan of the scenario in which there are daycare centres with only unvaccinated children and the risks involved. However, a quick scan is surrounded by a lot of uncertainties, so I see little added value of that. There are so many factors on this issue. However, the Cabinet does foresee that, despite all these uncertainties, the risk of contamination at a childcare site is in principle greater when there is clustering of unvaccinated children at that site. If that is the case, the GGD will of course take action and everything will happen afterwards. But a quickscan will offer little added value for that. Mr Hijink also asked when lighter measures are no longer effective and when we are moving to more urgent measures. In fact, I have already answered that question by saying that if we get into the red scenario, more intrusive measures are required, according to the Vermeij Committee. The cabinet has said that we share that advice. That is why we are preparing a legislative proposal that, if the vaccination rate falls below the pre-defined lower limit, children who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme will no longer have access to child care. Moreover, there are a number of issues on which the Cabinet has requested information from the Council of State, because of course the definition of this standard has some shortcomings. In line with this question, Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party had asked whether the government should not set the standard that every child should be vaccinated at child care. Wouldn't that be a much better proposal? I refer to what I just said, namely that the Vermeij Committee said that we are now in the orange scenario. If we were to go to the red scenario, it would indeed be a better option to be standard-setting as a government, so that childcare organisations would have the desired and necessary clarity. Several members, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Hermans and Mr Hijink, asked whether we would like to take priority over the legislative proposal mentioned in the cabinet response. What's our timing on that? I understand very well that your room wants to make haste. I feel this urgency myself, because it is a very pressing issue. We also share with the initiator that something is really needed here. The parents and the holders also want that clarity. My colleague and I are working on the many issues behind and the framework conditions for this proposal. We have asked for information from the Council of State. We would like to ensure that all the follow-up steps of the proposal are well thought out and implemented. We will inform your Chamber of the state of play this spring. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions I was allowed to receive from the Chamber. If the Chamber does not have any further questions, I am happy to give the floor to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you. I call the other Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to warmly endorse Mr Van Ark's sympathetic remarks to the author, Mr Raemakers, who unfortunately cannot be present today, but certainly also to the group that took over the baton, Mr Van Meenen, and to his support. I would like to emphasise these words. I do all the questions that are still open, but I don't think there are many; we have listed five that are addressed specifically to me. Firstly, Mr Bruins' question as to how the Secretary of State VWS sees the Vermeij Committee's proposal in relation to the vaccination rate and confidence in the National vaccination programme. Can't this have a negative effect? That is, of course, an important question. It is difficult to say exactly what the effects of a measure such as the Vermeij Committee would be. That is also why we are still carefully looking into certain issues at the moment. Mr van Ark also referred to this. Of course, it would be very undesirable for these measures to lead to a reduction in vaccination rates or confidence in the National vaccination programme. For this reason, we take the results of the NIVEL study into measures to increase the vaccination rate into account in the further development, as I also indicated in my recent letter to your Chamber. RIVM will also monitor confidence in the National vaccination programme for at least the next four years. A second question came from Mr Hijink. How do the State Secretarys view the proposal to set up a committee in the short term which advises the government on a lower limit to be set and on when it will enter into force? This is, of course, also a complicated subject. When and how can you set a lower limit? Mr Hijink also took note, I presume, of the RIVM opinion which has now been published on this issue. The Vermeij Commission states that the government is in a position to act. The same applies to this particular point. The cabinet supports this and therefore considers it more appropriate that we ourselves decide which vaccination rate we consider too low from a social point of view. The RIVM indicates that it cannot advise on a specific lower limit from science, but in our opinion the lower limit report does provide building blocks for a social choice for a lower limit. Within the RIVM there is a great deal of expertise and knowledge about vaccination. Another committee of experts, which would have to give additional advice, has no added value, with the arguments that have already been put forward. So I do not see any added value in that for the time being. The third question, which lives wide, was asked by Mr Van Dijk, Mr Bruins, Mrs Diertens and Mrs Agema. Now that the RIVM indicates that it can't set a lower limit, how will the State Secretary set a lower limit? That has everything to do with the previous question. We must decide which vaccination rate is too low from a social point of view. The RIVM has provided a number of building blocks on which we can make that assessment. So that's what we're thinking about right now. As announced in the cabinet's response, there are also other matters to be looked into. We have a number of questions to ask, including important questions to the Council of State. We also expect, Mrs Van Ark said, to be able to inform the Chamber in spring 2020 about the results of these important matters, such as our decision on the lower limit in relation to the outcome of the NIVEL report and the information provided by the Council of State. We want to answer that as a coherent package. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the fourth question. This was made by Mrs Hermans and also by Mrs Agema. What about the commitment of the Secretary of State of VWS to having a good conversation with parents about vaccination? Are we taking steps here now? We also raised this point this morning in general consultation, which was also about vaccination. I'd like to briefly state what we're doing here. There are certainly plenty of steps being taken. From 2018 onwards, a structural additional budget has been made available by the Reich for that conversation. I also funded a PhD research into the best conversation techniques for the good conversation. The interim results are applied as directly as possible in the practice of youth health care. A grant is also available from the VWS Ministry for Youth Doctors and Youth Nurses. With this grant we fund conversation training for the use of effective conversation techniques for the good conversation about vaccination. If parents in the Netherlands have children who are 2 years old, they have already had contact with youth health care on average twelve times. Every time there's room for a conversation about vaccination. At local level, there are initiatives that are complementary to this, such as in Barneveld. I went to work there. That was impressive. There's a separate vaccination consult. The youth health organisations offer all parents an extra long talk about vaccination four weeks after the birth of their child. The response is very high and goes towards 100%. Such local initiatives are also addressed in the consultations with the VNG and the Vaccination Alliance, so that other municipalities can see what is useful for them and take that example. We also recently know that the GGD in the six municipalities in Flevoland is going to make a wide use of more communication on this particular point. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question. It's from Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. How are measles outbreaks currently handled? That is a relevant question, because we sometimes see these outbreaks. It is popping up in several countries in Europe. People from other countries are also coming here with children who have contracted measles. Often patients have contracted the disease abroad. Sometimes they infect one or more unprotected persons in the Netherlands in their environment. RIVM and the GGDs are alert and keep an active eye on the situation. In case of measles infection, the patient's contact is investigated immediately. If necessary, these individuals will receive vaccination or an injection of antibodies. In the case of measles contamination at a childcare facility in The Hague, we have seen how well and quickly action is being taken. In concrete terms, children normally receive this vaccination when they are 14 months old. If appropriate, vaccination is also offered for children aged 6 months and older. Also in the context of travel advice, extra attention is paid to vaccination against measles to prevent infection on travel. On this point, the Vermeij Committee also recommends closer contacts between childcare organisations and the GGD. We are also working on this. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, that is the answer to my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u181	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of the initiator and the governor as advisor to the Chamber. Let's start with the second term for the Chamber. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me join everyone who has said how much passion and energy Rens Raemakers has worked on this proposal. It's a shame he can't defend it right now. Nothing to your detriment, Mr. Van Meenen, but we would have liked it all to be different. I wish him well and good luck. We hope to have him back in our midst soon. Mr. Chairman. I think it is no surprise that the SP is not very enthusiastic about this proposal. I do not think that the objective of this legislative proposal is sufficiently clear, and that has become clear here this evening. We have just found that the author seems to have two thoughts. On the one hand, the issue of public health, the protection of children's health, and on the other hand, what I call the market-oriented objectives of freedom of choice and transparency. Those two are very bad together. The petitioner said earlier: this law does not set standards. I think that is indeed a major problem for the SP Group. If you want a far-reaching law in the field of vaccination policy, then that law must be standardising. Then there must be no doubt about it and then it is up to the government to set that standard and not to private organisations, which can also have other objectives. I also find the reaction given to the fireplaces not very convincing, for example as regards the premise of the proposer that people would choose to still vaccinate their child. However, we will still have centres where an even greater proportion of the children will not be vaccinated. This cannot be solved in any other way. That point does not convince us either. I also regret that the proposal did not look at how registration, supervision and possible sanctions are regulated in cases where parents are misleading the situation or where centres are making serious mistakes. You would say that, if you are going to conduct vaccination policies, there is also a form of supervision, for example through the GGD, because it is already a supervisor. It is a pity that this proposal does not cover this. Mr Van Meenen will come back to the question we asked about staff. To what extent can you force your staff to be vaccinated in the short term? Here too, I would like to make the point that, if you want to go so far as to force your employees into vaccination, it must of course serve a legitimate purpose. You cannot say to your employees: you need to vaccinate now because it serves the freedom of choice of parents and transparency in the sector. If you ask for or demand vaccination of your employees, because if you are pursuing a policy of refusal, that is of course what you are doing: you are demanding that this should serve a legitimate purpose, namely the protection of the health of the children you are receiving, and that is not specifically the aim of the petitioner with this bill. It was said earlier that Mr Raemakers wanted to introduce as light a measure as possible as quickly as possible. That seems to have become this law, and I fear that it has become a rush job as well. For pragmatic reasons, it has been chosen not to regulate certain things. I mentioned all the surveillance. I also call it the exception of the hostage care. That's weird, too. If you're already doing something like that, I'd say you should do it sector-wide. In my view, this indicates that the proposal is not well thought out. It is well known that we are currently working with the VVD on a proposal of our own. This will be about mandatory vaccination for childcare and host care if there is a critical lower limit. As I said, that has a lot of hooks and eyes, but we are still working on it. Overall, as far as the SP Group is concerned, the conclusion is that the protection of public health is a collective interest that we do not want to leave to the individual choices of private organisations in childcare. If you do something, you pull the sector-wide and then everyone's on the same line. That gives you certainty and clarity. I am sorry, but this bill does not provide that clarity. We will therefore not be able to vote in favour of this bill, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u183	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Renkema van GroenLinks for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u184	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to endorse the words addressed to Mr Raemakers, who introduced this bill here in the first term. Compliments also to Mr Van Meenden, who has taken over his defence. It seems to be a simple law, but I think it has also been shown tonight that it is not that simple. There are two or three things I would like to say here. What strikes me is that we have actually moved around this law for more than a year and a half. The instrument was initially announced from concerns about the vaccination rate. I took a look. That was in August 2018. In that summer, there were a lot of reports of measles. That's when this proposal came up. I believe that this was the result of the legislative proposal and it was at least one of the most important issues in the first term. It has increasingly focused on objectives such as transparency in a market and parental choice. This makes it a market regulation tool rather than an increase in vaccination rates. There are two State Secretarys tonight for a reason. If it were only about transparency and freedom of choice, we would probably have had enough of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs tonight. I also think it's getting a little politically-administratively busy. We now have this initiative legislative proposal, in the first term an initiative legislative proposal has been announced from VVD and SP and we know that the cabinet itself is working on further proposals following the Vermeij Committee. This committee also included the inter-branch organisations, which are critical of the current initiative proposal. Let me make one more point when it comes to this political-administrative fuss, also hearing the opinion of the cabinet on this proposal. My question to Mr Van Meenen is whether he will continue to submit the bill or whether he is prepared to hold it or perhaps withdraw it. I think that is an important question that I really want answered tonight. Finally, the evaluation. I asked for this in the first term and Mr Van Meenen would come back to that. Because I don't know what he's gonna say about it and I don't know what's gonna happen after tonight, I still have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that youth doctors fear that this initiative law may lead to so-called infections at daycare centres with a low vaccination rate;]] [[invites the Government, if this initiative law is adopted, to evaluate the effectiveness and feasibility of the law after two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35049-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with all the encouraging and beautiful words that have already been spoken towards Rens Raemakers. Thank you to Mr Van Meenen and his support and, of course, to the two Secretary of State for the reply. Last week, the good news came that the reduction in vaccination rates has in any case come to a halt and that it is even rising slightly again. I think that's good news. That also shows... Is that chair going up in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u186	Yeah, guilty. I saw it was just a little too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u187	I thought, "What's going on here at 11:45 in the evening?" The vaccination rate has also increased. That's good news. That's where I'd stayed, I think. I would like to say that, in my view, this shows that attention to this issue and to a social and political discussion on this subject are working and that is important. At the same time, we are not there yet, because 95%, the vaccination rate that the WHO says is organising group protection, is far from being achieved. So there's still work to be done. The D66 proposal sees my group as a step, a next step, one might call it an intermediate step, but I do have a number of questions in the second period in response to Mr Van Meenen's reply. Of the first of these, Mr Van Meenen has already promised to return to it in his second term, but I would like to explain it a little. I took a look at the explanatory memorandum. D66 states that, ultimately, childcare centres can choose only to allow vaccinated children, which means that only or almost exclusively vaccinated children are present at that daycare centre. That 'almost exclusively' is now the crux and that is the question I would like to see answered. For what exactly does that mean "almost exclusively" for Mr Van Meenen? Children under 14 months of age are explicitly addressed, as they may not have had some of the vaccinations, the known BMR vaccination. How does this definition cover that group of children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons? So I am not talking about children who do not want to, or whose parents do not want to vaccinate, but about children who simply cannot be vaccinated. My second question concerns registration and supervision. I am trying to sum up what Mr Van Meenen said about this. My question is: did I understand correctly? It begins with the choice of childcare policy. The childcare centre chooses to admit or not only children who have been vaccinated. And now I come to the issue of registration, because that is something that needs to be clarified. It is therefore also up to the childcare sector to decide whether or not to register it. The same applies to the way people register. And then all the legal consequences of the choices made by the daycare center are with the daycare center or with the childcare organisation. Did I get that right? I would also like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to the implementation, registration and monitoring of this, as outlined by Mr Van Meenen in the first term. Mr President, these are a few more questions that my group would like to answer. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u188	Thank you. Mrs. Diertens waives her second term. I give the floor to Mrs Postma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the initiators Rens Raemakers and Mr Van Meenen for the answers we have received. The aim of this law is transparency and greater freedom of choice, it was said. But is it going to work that way in practice? The question remains: what is the added value and what will work? Because, in fact, a childcare center can already refuse. Furthermore, the CDA Group continues to raise questions about the risk of the fireplaces. The CDA is not comfortable with this, especially because the children cannot be vaccinated in the first few months. How do you protect these children if, for example, they are on a nursery where children have not been vaccinated or where there is a 90% vaccination rate? We then actually protect the fear of a group of parents, but take the protection away, or the umbrella away from this group of children. And we're concerned about that. We have also asked about the administrative burden arising from this law. We didn't get enough of that either. We also fail to see how this registration is monitored, in order, for example, to prevent fraud. And if there can be too much fraud, you'll get that bogus security again. Mr President, in conclusion. We're critical of the law. I will take the answers back to the group. Let's see what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u190	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to join with all the warm words that have been said to Mr Raemakers, and also with the compliments to Mr Van Meenen. He fought like a lion for Mr. Raemakers' bill. It was, I think, a good debate in which the various parts emerged. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I have to say for myself that it is a very difficult legislative proposal in that sense that if you do not want to go on the path of compulsory measures, like my group, you will soon find it too far. You will have to give much more weight to all measures aimed at providing information, engaging in dialogue and such, and here you are already, even indirectly, in the context of coercive measures, compulsory measures, but if you really want to go on the path of compulsory measures, it does not really go far enough again. Then you say, "Does it help enough?" Shouldn't you be moving on? That is what I hear other groups say, such as the SP and the VVD. In this sense, the nature of this bill remains rather half-hearted. My group notes that many questions of a legal nature and of a technical nature remain. The complexity has already been mentioned, and also that the effectiveness is unclear. Therefore, the SGP Group will not be able to support this bill. Finally, may I ask the initiator to respond to the NIVEL report on this bill? This raises the various objections. Has that given rise to a review of this bill? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u192	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. The initiator has indicated that he needs about twenty minutes to prepare himself for the answers to the questions that have been asked. I'm suspending the meeting until about 11:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u193	I call the initiator, Mr Van Meenen, for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u194	Mr President, thank you very much. I'll walk by the questions asked first. I shall begin with Mr Hijink of the SP. Mr Hijink came back to his point that one cannot use transparency and freedom of choice as an objective for parents and as a legitimate objective for one of the measures something else. He creates a contradiction that is not there. Mr Hijink was on the right track when he spoke of a higher purpose. A law can have many practical objectives, but if fundamental rights are at stake, it must be justified by a higher objective in the sphere of fundamental rights and freedoms. In this case, the practical objective is transparency and freedom of choice for parents. Beyond that lies the higher objective of realising the fundamental rights enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. This includes the right of parents to make informed choices about their child's health. Those two aren't in conflict with each other, they're in extension. It is a misconception that if there is any relationship with a health issue, the legitimate objective can only be public health. Fundamental rights can be restricted on many grounds, including the rights and freedoms of others. This includes rights under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I would like to point out that this is not a direct restriction on a fundamental right, but rather an indirect distinction on the basis of religion and belief. Then there is a question from Mr Hijink about the transitional period. Mr Hijink asked whether it was not the case that you cannot force all children and all staff to be vaccinated from day one. His question was also when the law will enter into force. The law shall enter into force at a time to be determined by a royal decree. This will be chosen in such a way that everyone can prepare for entry into force. In writing the legislative proposal, the initiator specifically assumed that by holders of children's centres who are going to pursue an admission policy in which only vaccinated children are still allowed, that policy will be introduced gradually, starting with new notifications. This may lead to a gradual increase in safety at a child centre. The usefulness and proportionality of the legislative proposal is not affected by this. However, it is also conceivable that making child centres safer would become so urgent that the termination of contracts with parents of unvaccinated children should be considered justified. The general conditions applied by both the Branchevereniging Kindervanging and the Branchevereniging Maatschappij Sociale Kindervanging, state that a childcare organisation can terminate the agreement with a parent for a serious reason. It is explicitly stated that the case that the child and/or the parent poses a risk or threat to the mental and/or physical health or safety of others after being warned is such a serious reason. It is therefore obvious that childcare organisations shape the policy and the period of notice to be used in this respect in good consultation with the Parents' Committee. Mr Hijink, Mrs Postma and Mrs Hermans spoke about this 'almost exclusively'. I promised I'd come back to that. Mr Hijink, Mrs Postma and Mrs Hermans asked whether it was true that if a child care provision decides not to apply a hardness clause, a medical exception should not be allowed either. That's right. A medical reason not to vaccinate with the vaccines of the National Vaccination Programme is only very, very rare, according to RIVM. We cannot imagine that a childcare centre would not then apply a hardness clause. Mr Renkema's motion is the motion in part No. 13.. is addressed to the government, but if you'll allow me, I'll go into it as well. What I have said about the impact of the legislative proposal on a possible increase in vaccination rates implies that it will be very difficult to attribute this increase to this law or to other measures in the field of information and awareness. The same applies to an unexpected further reduction in vaccination rates and in the event of further measles outbreaks. I will be discussing the clustering of unvaccinated children later, but I do not think that the hard core of the legislative proposal is suitable for evaluation. The provision of child care in the register of child centres allowing only vaccinated children will be a fact with the introduction of the law? This has achieved the objective of transparency. The same applies to the question that indirect discrimination on the basis of religion and philosophy is justified. So I do not see very soon what can be evaluated, but we are also, of course, waiting for the government's reaction. Excuse me, I have missed a bit, especially for Mrs Hermans, on the criterion 'almost exclusively'. She had asked whether the legal consequences lie in child care. Yes, it is, but I would point out that there is no such thing as a right of access to the children's center of choice. The only legal point addressed by the legislative proposal is without doubt to say that indirect discrimination is permissible. I honestly do not understand how the effectiveness of this can be questioned. After all, is the legislative proposal completely clear on this? Mrs Postma had another question about added value. I think I've made it clear enough what it is in our eyes. This will lead to transparency and freedom of choice and it will create a possibility that we cannot now determine whether there is a legal basis for this. We're gonna give it to him with this. At least that is the added value. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the NIVEL report had led to a further review. The answer to that is: no, we have not seen any reason, but we have read it correctly. Then towards the government. I would like to say a few words about the advice we received from the government in the first term. This Opinion is based to a large extent on the opinions of two bodies which have expressed their views on the legislative proposal: the Advisory Section of the Council of State and the Vermeij Commission. In our view, both have been guided by a preference for other measures. They are, of course, free to do so, but that did not relieve them of the obligation to look carefully at what this bill is about. In our view, the Council of State has failed to do so by ignoring the objective of clarifying whether or not children's centres are allowed to discriminate indirectly on the basis of religion and/or belief and by not paying attention to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides the legitimate objective of making that distinction. The Vermeij Committee did not take sufficient account of the extremely light and minor nature of the legislative proposal. As a result, the Committee has failed to see that, in the case of the legislative proposal, the demands made by human rights conventions are met much more quickly than in the case of the Commission's own proposal, the scenario red. It makes quite a difference whether you directly restrict the freedom of religion with a coercive measure or just need a justification for making indirect distinctions. Finally, Mr President. The bill does two things. One. It clarifies to the holders of children's centres that they may distinguish between children who participate in and who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme when they are admitted. Two. It then obliges them to ensure that their admission policy is included in the child care register. This is in the interests of transparency. I cannot explain an opinion or a vote against this bill other than as a vote against these two measures. In theory, it is also possible, of course, that someone is in principle in favour of these two measures, but that there are other, more serious considerations which still make him vote against. That seems rather complicated to explain, especially if it is based on suspicions and assessments of the consequences of the law. I haven't heard that explanation so far either. What I have heard is that the legislative proposal is too limited and is not going to be enough to raise the vaccination rate. That too is an assessment, not only of the impact of this bill, but also of the speed with which a more radical and possibly more effective legislative proposal can be submitted. I repeat once more: beware that the better is not the enemy of good. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u195	Thank you. I see there is another interruption by Mr Renkema. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u196	I asked for something in my second term. We've heard what the Cabinet thinks of the bill. I have also mentioned the political and administrative hustle and bustle, with an initiative proposal coming up and new initiatives from the cabinet for legislation. How does the initiator look at all this? And what does he decide on this bill? Is he going to continue with this bill, withdraw it or put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u197	You're right. I owe you an answer to that. Let me start with the spoiler that we continue the treatment. And I would almost say: if only there were a lot of political pressure on this subject. Actually, there's not enough in our eyes. This is a first step. I repeat Mrs Hermans. This is a first step; we're gonna do something. The sequel awaits us. We'll see. We will approach that very openly. But let us not give the impression that it excludes one another. This step can be taken and other steps can be taken. But it is high time for parents, children and children's centres to take a step now. Then, as a politician, you also show that you want to take steps forward. That's what we're doing now. That is why we are continuing the debate on this proposal with conviction. I hope that your group will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u198	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. There is also a motion on which we would like to hear her appreciation. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the contribution of Members of Parliament in the second term, which also shows how complex the dilemmas that lie under these issues are. These are dilemmas that lie in the medical field, the ethical field and the legal field. That is what the Vermeij Committee was asked for at the time. There are still many steps to be taken. It is also an urgent issue, because the concerns of parents and holders have also been widely addressed. I have one more question, from Mrs Hermans on registration: how does it work out in the implementation, and possibly also in enforcement? My reflection on this is that the registration as included in the initiative proposal, the lightest form of "the calendar' has been mentioned, and that "the calendar' is not sufficient to provide parents and holders with security. After all, a child is vaccinated several times until the 14th month of life. The holder must therefore keep up with this. If a holder does not keep a registration, parents must rely on it. These are the parents who consciously choose to choose a child care facility for their child where only vaccinated children are taken care of. In fact, there is no more certainty than is currently the case. As a parent you have to rely on it, but if there is an outbreak, for example, and the question of guilt arises, then the holder must also be able to prove that he has registered properly. I would like to point out once again that it is still possible for the disease to show itself even in the event of sufficient vaccinations. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motion in part No. 13, where I still feel some restraint. It is an initiative proposal from the Chamber. So I would also suggest to the author of the motion that we perhaps make an amendment. However, with the reluctance and reluctance I feel to assess a motion on an initiative law, I would like to leave the opinion of this motion to the Chamber, especially in the light of the statements I have just made on the feasibility of registration. Then we can see how that works out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u200	The motion in part No. 13 gets judgment, Chamber. It is also a request to the government, so it is nice that this motion gets an appreciation. I'm just gonna take a look at the other Secretary of State and the MPs. No? That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-9.u201	The vote on the legislative proposal and the motion tabled will take place next Tuesday. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator, who answered all the questions about one hour and three quarters of an hour. I would like to thank Mrs De Boer and Mr Linthorst for their support. I thank the Members of Parliament, of course, and the people in the public gallery, who have also held out for a very long time. They're waving, so hopefully they've had a beautiful evening! I also thank the viewers at home, and that concludes the meeting. Thank you.
