ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of bill 34864, supplement law on soil Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u2	The Minister for the Environment and Living has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u3	Mr. Chairman. For this I have a number of folders again. If Members would allow me to do so, I would suggest that the interruptions be resumed at the end of the block. First of all, I have a block of legislation in general and then a specific block on soil anerations, but also on new tasks, such as pfas. Then I have a block about deep ponds and groundwater, I have a block about knowledge and information and then I have a block about execution and other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u4	Let me look at the Members to see if they can agree with the Minister's proposal that the interruptions should be stopped by block until the end of the block. That's the case. If the Minister can then clearly indicate when a block has been identified, then Members can then post their interruptions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u5	Terminated cubes, Chairman. I'll do my best not to forget to mark that. Mr. Chairman. This bill is an important step in implementing the Empire's vision of how to deal with soil quality. Some of your members have referred to it: the soil is being used more and more intensively. This creates a potential tension between use and quality and therefore requires coherence and an integrated approach. This legislative proposal does exactly this. It integrates soil into the Environment Act. The rules are gonna look a little different, but in the end less changes than at first glance. As far as possible, existing rules have been used which have proved their worth in practice. Much has been said about the role of the municipalities. After all, they have a central role in the Environment Act. For soil, that's not exactly new. Soil policy has been decentralised since the 1990s. However, the powers for the restoration of solid soil from the provinces and large municipalities shift to all municipalities, but for this they get the frameworks from the Empire and the implementation remains with the environmental service. So that also guarantees continuity. Mr. Chairman. It is important to note that the competent authority does not change for reorganisations covered by the transitional law. The settlement of these locations remains with the province or the larger municipalities. With the ground agreements, we have ensured that virtually all major, urgent contaminants have been controlled or addressed. That's a great achievement, but I mentioned something this morning that we're not done yet. We may have thought that we were at a final stage with soil, but with pfas and with the discussions on deep puddles we have seen that there is still a lasting interest in cooperation in this area. For deep puddles, by means of a permit requirement, additional conditions are already in place. A new framework is being developed for pfas and other new substances in soil. This will be ready by the end of this year, in consultation with all domes. There will also be a good assessment of the feasibility of the sector and it will then be implemented in the regulatory framework. I have intensive discussions with the other governments on the new agreements that we want to make after the end of the current covenant in 2020. Developments in the field of pfas and deep puddles play a prominent role in this. And then it is both about making resources available by the Empire and about ensuring sufficient knowledge and mutual cooperation. If there's one thing we've seen in the past year, it's that we need each other as different levels of government. So we will also make agreements on this with the different domes. Cooperation is not for nothing one of the essential elements of the Environment Act. It is not just about making rules, but also about culture, I say to Mr Verkerk. In this way, we can ensure that we meet these new challenges together and work well in the cooperation between the different levels of government. Mr Recourt asked about national interests. How were they secured in the new system? In the fourth term, we have already exchanged views on this. It starts with clarity. The fact that all these instructional rules come together in one environment plan contributes to that clarity. We have the issue of digital support. The contours are now sometimes exceeded, but will soon be visible at once by the DSO. That narrows the risk of mistakes and things like that. These kinds of improvements will hopefully contribute to compliance. We actually exchanged this with each other in the fourth term of the Introduction Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u6	Thank you. I found the jumping point of the document in the NRC that these national interests were not automatically secured now, for a number of reasons, as the Minister replied in his letter this afternoon. I find the Minister's answer somewhat vague. Can you just say straight away: at the moment when there is a national interest, there is a review, control or certainty, so that that interest is actually secured by those local authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u7	I was a little short indeed, because I did not want to repeat the whole debate in the fourth term. Consuming is always a danger. I made a commitment in the first term. I said two things. We have a system. A system, whatever system, never has a 100% guarantee that it will always happen, but you do want it to happen as much as possible. You can do that on the one hand by making the system as clear as possible. In relation to the old system, the system of the Environment Act is more accessible. For example, it brings together all the rules for the environmental plan, which reduces the risk of errors. In addition, culture is a part of it. You can rely on it in principle that you all comply with the state rules, but the observation was that that did not always happen. Throughout the whole process, where we are investing almost 70 million, there is very much to be done with the introduction guidance. I think this will help to make the rules known and also to apply them. I have just made another commitment to Mr Verkerk. It is really important that we make the use of the rules by the officials themselves part of the monitoring and monitoring of the implementation. In addition, I said to Mrs Nooren that we are going to have another sample carried out to see if it happens properly under the new system. You can still do a lot of impact tests, but you have to see it in practice eventually and then adjust to those points where it is necessary. It's a living system. We will always have to act well on signals, so I would like to repeat that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u8	I am sorry that I provoked you to do so, but you are indeed repeating what was said in the fourth term and what is in the letter with all those lists. My point is that these elements will improve on the one hand and, on the other hand, may deteriorate somewhat in the new Environment Act. There will be guidance when it is introduced, but eventually, after so many years, it will be possible that national interests are not sufficiently protected. What is in the system now, so that the Empire, the state level, may or may not keep spot-on view of it permanently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u9	Firstly, we can indeed keep an eye on this through sampling. But I think you're asking not only to have a look at it, but also what you can do about it. There are several instruments. There are, of course, a number of instruments in inter-administrative supervision. If we were to come to the conclusion that somewhere too much use is being made of the margin of discretion in the sense that interests are under-protected or that we feel that this leads to situations that we do not want, then you can always come to the conclusion that additional rules of instruction are needed. The system shall contain the tools to be used to adjust, if practical evidence shows that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u10	Thank you. Can I remind Members that we have just made an appointment at the Minister's request to place the interruptions at the end of the block? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u11	The block wasn't quite finished yet, Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Moonen's question on legal certainty. It is extremely important that initiators can derive sufficient certainty from the rules of the Empire and municipalities. The fact that municipalities define and publish their policy choices through policy rules can certainly help with this. The General Administrative Law Act also contains incentives for this. For specific topics such as soil, the Advisory Committee has indicated that policy rules can be useful. At the same time, in its latest opinion from 2019, the Advisory Commission warns about the rule reflex. Too quick to reach out to policy rules can also mean that a system does not have the opportunity to develop. Monitoring any development and then seeing if these policies help is, of course, important in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens. I certainly think that policy rules are a useful tool for promoting legal certainty, but let me put it this way: a dosed application is on the table. Mr Recourt asked: does the law provide adequate protection for the individual citizen? The legal protection of the system is equivalent to the current level. It is built in such a way that it must be easily accessible to all concerned, including citizens. The DSO also ultimately contributes to the awareness through the proper opening up of applicable rules. The awareness is the first basis, together with participation, for effective legal protection. You could've done it on paper. But if you don't know something's happening around you, if you don't get a chance to talk about it or if the information isn't known at all, it's gonna be hard to actually exercise a paper right. That is also a point we have exchanged. A number of things have also been secured in decision-making on the physical environment, such as the involvement and the process of establishing an environmental plan. And legal protection is also open to decisions under the Environmental Act. We've changed that before. It was rightly asked whether a court could also annul a decision which was not sufficiently reasoned. Yes, a decision must always comply with General Administrative Law and the general principles of good governance. Very important is a sufficient justification for a decision. We were just talking about the sound-low facade. Now the justification becomes mandatory. Then it is: comply or explain. A decision which does not comply with the requirement of sufficient statement of reasons may, in fact, destroy the court. Mr Verkerk asked how the Minister assessed the different interests and roles of the soil. In soil, on the one hand, the importance of protecting citizens and, on the other hand, the importance of exploiting soil. For the rest, it is up to the municipalities to weigh these different interests. But the environmental vision is now, unlike the structural vision, also about the environment, and therefore also about soil. So that's a real change. This integrated approach is therefore taken immediately at the front. At sound, the same thing actually played. I think it is a big gain that this is taken up immediately, rather than having to try to settle it again afterwards if the trade-off has actually been made on other grounds. So the Environment Act also requires municipalities to involve health more strongly in their deliberations. And that, too, I think, is real profit. The programme Getting started with the Environment Act also helps the municipalities to make this assessment in practice. Mr Verkerk asked: does the Minister also recognise the importance of dialogues on power and counterpower? Sure. In the democratic rule of law, checks-and-balances are of great importance. In my opinion, the regulatory framework within the system also provides for sufficient guidance, providing, on the one hand, administrative consideration space for the allocation of environmental law to the local situation, but on the other hand, through motivation and so on, there is a real demand for accountability. And that adds to the checks-and-balances. Environmental law must ultimately take shape in the application. Legislation and governance are the keys to this. Participation is of course an important contribution to strengthening those checks-and-balances. And in the end, of course, the judge also checks whether it is being used properly. I therefore believe that the system constitutes an appropriate framework for the proper application and formation of law. We will, of course, also follow the case law closely, as part of the promised monitoring and evaluation. Then we can also look at how it works out in practice on this point. The Labour Party asked whether the decision gives a coherent picture of the soil in our country. And can we be sure of sustainable land use? In the system of the Environment Act, supplemented by the Supplementary Act and the Decree soil, there are all the legal instruments we need for this. So this is a clear way for governments and citizens to get out of the way of these rules. Not everything, of course, can be enforced by rules, so we will have to do it together. If a trade-off has to be made, you can require the way in which that trade-off is made. Whether or not the interests are sufficiently secured depends, of course, on the specific case. But it is also subject to appeal and legal protection. But visions are important, knowledge structure is important, administrative agreements are important. But also, for example, the Soil and Underground Programme, as part of the NOVI, administrative agreements, soil, the agricultural vision of LNV all contribute to that overall system. The Labour Party asked about soil: are there any standards that are more robust than EU standards? There are no EU floor rules with standards. However, there are general frameworks and principles in international environmental conventions. Of course, there are European directives on groundwater in the Water Framework Directive and the Groundwater Directive. Furthermore, in the context of pfas, we also had the discussion on how high the standard can be. It makes a lot of difference to groundwater, for example, whether you live very close to that groundwater level, or whether you live on top of a mountain and have little to do with that groundwater. This can have an effect on the effect that a certain standard has on health. That is why the translation of that soil policy is often national policy. The VVD said that new laws and regulations will lead to an improvement in the physical environment. The group asked how the new regulations for soil from project-oriented to area-oriented contribute to this. The Environment Act provides instruments for an integrated and more area-oriented system for dealing with the remaining soil contamination. So we are no longer looking at a contaminated site per case of contamination, but based on the necessary soil quality at the site in relation to the desired use. Under the Environmental Law, the consideration of soil quality in relation to the function is an important pillar. You want guarantees in a place where you want to establish a children's playground, other than in a place where an industrial park needs to be. In the environmental vision and the environmental plan, the municipality thus gets room to make the balance that also fits the local situation and the desired use. For example, a municipality can determine areas where high ambitions are set, for example in a nature reserve, and where lower ambitions apply, for example in an industrial area. In doing so, they must respect the objectives of the law: to protect and exploit the environment in conjunction with each other and to remain within the range set by the Empire as a limit. Mrs Klip-Martin asked on behalf of the VVD whether the laws mentioned in the explanatory memorandum are incorporated into the Environment Act and when. This was specifically about the Mining Act and the Underground Act. The explanatory memorandum mentions a number of laws affecting soil legislation. With this first step in the revision of environmental law, the site-related rules are grouped together in the Environment Act. Mrs Klip-Martin specifically mentioned the Underground Law and the Mining Act. The Underground Act has already been incorporated into the Environment Act. The Underground Law itself is therefore repealed with the Introduction Act. The parts of the Mining Act that deal with the physical environment are already included in the Environment Act. For example, it concerns the environmental permit and the safety zone around a mining work, but the remaining parts of the Mining Act will continue to exist. The supplement law soil doesn't change that. Then there are the agreements from other policy documents. The Environment Act offers instruments for now. In the future it is always possible to change the law if there is reason to do so. The NOVI includes the soil and subsurface programme to implement the actions of the structural vision. The Environment Act also contains a number of mandatory programmes, including the National Water Programme. The agreements from, for example, the Water Management Agreement are also incorporated into the National Water Programme. Many of these points are reflected in the system in this way. Mrs Kluit asked about the integral balance versus improvement of soil quality. The integrated assessment should ensure that the role of soil quality in making the plans is considered in the environmental vision and the environmental plan. I have just indicated this in response to questions from Mrs Nooren and Mr Verkerk. This prevents surprises and allows the right function to be realized in the right place. Improving soil quality is achieved by regulation that prevents new contaminants. In the case of accidents, this requires clean-up and a clean-up requirement for new construction activities. There is also regulation on the application of soil which prohibits the mixing of clean and dirty soil. Mr Janssen asked for equivalent protection in relation to the administrative balancing area. With the Environmental Law and the Supplementary Law soil, municipalities are given more discretion in some respects to make it more appropriate for the local situation, but it also includes guarantees. I was just telling you what's going on. The difference between the children's playground and an industrial area can therefore be translated into the requirements for a proper balance between protection and use, but there are also safeguards in the form of instructional rules with limit values and maximum permissible values. This always protects health. To keep a finger on the pulse, the impact of the balancing area on the level of protection is also monitored at this point. Mr Recourt asked about the margin of the municipality when it comes to customization and the deviation from standards. In addition to the general points I have already made on this subject, I can add that for graves the intervention value soil quality has been fixed. The municipality can't change it. For building on contaminated soil, the municipality must define the local value in the environmental plan. That value shall never exceed the maximum permissible risk. So that border is always secured. The same rules apply to the application. Under strict conditions, the municipality can make local policy, but that space is therefore limited. For soil, for example, it also means using the best available techniques and avoiding significant contamination. These are also additional safeguards in addition to the limit value. How do the new scientific insights, for example on soil decline, translate into legal limits and upper limits? The soil decline is not part of the soil supplement law, but I think Mrs Moonen's question is actually broader, because new scientific insights should actually lead to new policies. It's not a system that's finished forever at any time. If there are new insights, whether it is about noise or the relationship of certain pollutants to health, this can lead to new policies. After that careful policy-based consideration, with all the steps that go with it, this can lead to the setting of legal limits and measures that are incorporated back into the Environment Act. Mrs Moonen and Mr Verkerk asked: does the monitoring of the Environment Act see soil on the Supplementary Act? Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. Mrs Kluit asked about the quality of the soil. I have already said a number of things about this. Improvement of the environment is part of the societal goals. Competent authorities should therefore consider the ecological and physical quality in addition to chemical quality. Mr President, I have ended up with a block, as you called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u12	Thank you, Minister. That is a clear statement. Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u13	In any case, I meant a question other than that of the Minister who answered it. It's about the margin within which the municipality can decide. The municipality must motivate how the margin has been filled and that comes to the judge. It is up to the administrative judge to respect the administrative area of the government. What else is there to test by the board judge? If a municipality stays within the margin, which doesn't offer a lot of administrative space, isn't that always good? I'm practically not getting that between the ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u14	On a number of points, the judge can still check. Participation is compulsory for a number of points. The judge may then, for example, check whether participation has been followed to a sufficient extent and also appropriate to the decision on which it is based. In addition, the competent authority is always obliged to make a proportionate assessment of all interests. So, regardless of participation, that is, of course, a point on which the judge can test. There is then an obligation to state reasons for certain points. Then the judge can check whether a decision is based on sufficient and correct arguments. Those system elements are independent of the specific limit values contained in the system, i.e. whether you have remained above or below the limit values. Mr Recourt clearly asked about the scope for consideration in that regard. These elements, which are simply included in the structure of the system, are points on which the judge can check.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u15	But what standards should a justification meet? From one to ten the municipality has space between eight and nine. If the municipality chooses nine, because it prefers economic development, and nothing else, is that okay? What's that hanging from?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u16	The competent authority must always be able to relate a decision to the objectives of the Environmental Act. If there is explicit scope in the administrative area for the balancing of protection and use, the competent authority will have to indicate how it has looked at both the protection interest and the use interest. Depending on the case, of course, it will be examined how important this protection is and whether sufficient justice has been given to it. But the most important thing is that the administrative balancing area is already framed by boundaries, beyond which one can say that at least the health interest is no longer fulfilled. So the fact that there are just limits to the administrative balance is one thing. In addition, there will be a need to provide a good justification for the content of the different interests being considered. Mr President, then there are a number of questions about soil erosion and the new challenges, such as pfas. I have already said something about this in the introduction. Mrs Kluit asked whether the questions on substances of very high concern were resolved before the decision on entry into force was discussed in the First Chamber. It would be very nice if that were the case, but I think we still have a whole agenda for very worrying substances. In the case of pfas, for example, a point that is now very topical.... I continue to work on the improvement of a temporary framework of action pfas, but we know that RIVM still needs until the end of the year. So this is really an area that is still under development. At the end of this year, I have completed the final framework for action pfas and other general frameworks in draft form. Where necessary, this will lead to the adaptation of parts of the Environmental Act or its implementing legislation. We'll do that as soon as we can. This is another one of those grounds. It is a living system, so as soon as new developments occur, it may mean that we decide that something needs to be amended in the legislation, as is the case in all other laws. In this respect, we are also working with other public authorities and industry to resolve the remaining bottlenecks. We don't just do that for pfas, by the way. We are also talking to the other governments about very worrying substances. I'm not at the end of my term, Mr. Chairman, in case you want to keep that deal. How are the pfas locations displayed? That was a question from both the CDA and the SP. Point locations with increased levels of the most common ZZSs such as pfas are now shown. That is a project of the VNG together with the Soil Covenant Implementing Programme. The first results are expected this spring. We expect the results of the research after the summer. Then, of course, it depends on the location and on what someone wants to do with that location. I will discuss the results of the study with the other governments. We have very regular administrative consultations with each other. This can result in the administrative arrangements that I hope to make before the summer with the domes over the period starting from 2021. I will also inform Parliament about the results before the summer. We have earmarked some resources for this in the IenW budget. We are aware that there may be a new category of point sources. In that direction, the VVD asked whether the contaminated pfas sites would soon be subject to care obligations under the guise of new cases. The municipalities are concerned about the financial consequences. There is a different regime for pollution prior to 1987. That was the decision serious and urgent under the Soil Protection Act. In the case of pollution after that, the duty of care applies, i.e. the principle that the causer/polluter pays. The competent authority must assess what is applicable. Pollutions from after 1987 are subject to care obligations. It doesn't change under the Environment Act. We are, of course, dealing with a new inventory here, and that actually includes new arrangements. How is the preparation of the law guaranteed while negotiations with the other authorities are ongoing? There are now three routes parallel to the Environment Act. With the agreements from the ground agreements, the emergency locations were addressed or controlled at the time of entry into force of the Environmental Act. They continue to be subject to the Soil Protection Act and the current competent authority, as I have just indicated. In several ways, governments are further supported: the Inter-Governmental Programme Getting started with the Environmental Act and the Soil Covenant Implementing Programme. Thus, discussions are also being held with other governments on follow-up agreements. It is quite clear that in the years to come we will have that in the future. Then the CDA asked about the asbestos aneurysms. For the implementation of the asbestos programme Overijssel and the Co-operation Agreement Asbestos Soil Remodelling Programme 2016-2022 3 times the word value............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This concerns the situation in seven municipalities, including the municipalities of Hof van Twente and Borne. The agreements on the approach and financing continue until after the introduction of the Environmental Act. With the signature of the Covenant Soil and Underground, the soil resources for the approach of locations have been established. The contribution concerned the most urgent cases. We also include agreements on more soil resources in the agreements we are going to make with each other. I already told you. The clean-up of the asbestos sites in the province of Gelderland has been taken into account by that province in the approach to soil clean-up sites. The province of Gelderland welcomes this approach. In addition, as I have just said, we are still discussing the soil issues of the coming years. The CDA asked about the approach to lead. Municipalities and provinces are now showing where lead is present in the soil. This is ready for the summer and is supported by the Soil Covenant Implementing Programme. Agreements on how to deal with this, including financial consequences, are part of the administrative arrangements to which I have just referred. Mrs. Moonen specifically asked about the fallout. She asked how the responsibilities were arranged. The municipalities are explicitly competent authorities, because quick action is important in the event of such an accident. The municipality is the first point of contact for citizens. The spokeswoman of the Labour Party asked about the protection pfas. She said that in such cases it was necessary to emphasize the national direction. I understand her concern about new substances like pfas. I think the system is robust in itself, but it is important that we deal with this together. We can see that in the way it works now. There will be an administrative consultation with the domes, the sector and the RIVM at the table. Together they provide the solution. In the end, that's the only way. It is not whether the municipalities, or the provinces; it is both Rijk and provinces and water boards and municipalities and science. We all need them and we bring them together to make sure that everyone in their place can do whatever it takes. In addition, there are instruments such as the NOVI programmes and administrative arrangements. In practice, looking for solutions together is simply necessary, whether you are covered by the old system or the new one. Certainly in the new system there are instruments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u17	Thank you, Minister. I'll take a look around. I see an interruption by Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u18	I have one more question for the Minister. It's about the presence of soil aneurysms. All the other questions have been answered very well. Thank you for that. We think that expression is important. We also think it is important to know where that awareness is recorded. Is soil restoration by the Land Registry registered in a public register? Is it going to be in the Digital System Environment Act? I haven't had an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u19	That's a pretty technical question. I'll get an answer for Mrs Moonen. That will be possible during the answer in this period. Mr. Chairman. Then the deep pee and the groundwater. There are times when you think, "I'm learning a lot of new things." That happened for me one and a half years ago when I bowed to the concerns that had arisen about deep puddles in the House of Representatives. With you and with me, there are concerns about dredging that has ended up in a number of deep pools, monitoring it, and whether in all cases there is a need for an emergency. That is why I sat together for the debate in the Lower House with all the parties and looked at what would be needed to improve this framework on the basis of the signals we had then. In the context of the development of the area, deep lakes are sometimes drowned out, but of course we have to pay close attention to what this means for the environment. I think we can all remember the footage of the plastic that was on the edge of that puddle. Of course, that would never have been the intention of anyone. Therefore, the Supplementary Decision introduces a permit requirement for the discharge activity in the BAL and the EIA assessment obligation. This is also one of those proposals where you say, in response to signals at some point, that we have looked closely at current legislation; there is something missing here and we need to supplement something. That can just happen. From 2021 onwards, the EIA assessment obligation shall weigh the environmental aspects in full. Interested parties have then been given the opportunity to object and appeal in order to be more closely involved in that immediate environment. This is also important in the context of participation. The CDA and also Mrs Kluit have asked why there is only an EIA assessment obligation and not an EIA right away. An EIA assessment obligation has been chosen as it allows an intermediate step to be taken to assess whether significant effects can be expected before an entire EIA has to be drawn up. But it is clear from that assessment that it is necessary, that the EIA must of course be made. This way you avoid having to set up an E.R. if it is not necessary. In addition, there is also a practice-oriented scientific research. It's called B-ware. This will develop a new method for assessing accidents, so that a better answer can be given to the question of whether nature and ecology are actually improving. This investigation shall be completed in 2022. Finally, I am investigating a new environmental hygiene review framework. I would also like to be able to include the problem of poverty in order to have a clear understanding of the consequences and effects before that new framework is introduced. I have just said something about implementation in the legislation and regulations for deep peeing. The application of soil and dredging species is now subject to a reporting obligation and general rules under the Soil Quality Decision apply. The duty of care is further developed in the circular and the hand-held Deep peeing. The notification shall also provide an establishment plan highlighting the main aspects of the incident. In addition to the Decision on soil quality, requirements are also laid down in the Water Act and the zoning plan. A number of questions have been asked about granules. Of course, that's pretty much in the press right now. I'm working on a letter to the House of Representatives right now. I'd be happy to send that letter to the members of the First Chamber as well. I am not going to go into all the specific questions that have been asked. I would like to answer these questions carefully, and for that we are still doing some research. Mrs Kluit asked about the state of play of the Ronnes motion on integrated views on groundwater management under the direction of the province. The Environment Act requires that the provinces also have an environmental vision upon the entry into force of the system. The law also asks the province to agree with municipalities and water boards when drawing up the visions. This fits in with the direction that the provinces have in groundwater management. On the basis of the provincial vision, municipalities can then set up their own environmental vision and have three years to do so after entry into force. Waterboards can do the same when drawing up their waterboard regulations, which must be completed two years after entry into force. With the implementation monitor we keep an eye on whether provinces, municipalities and water boards are ready with their policies on time. If we really see someone left behind, we'll see what support is needed. With regard to groundwater extraction areas, Mrs Kluit asked how quality was regulated and whether more was needed. I think she speaks on behalf of many of us when she says that we should be careful about drinking water production. This has been successful so far, even in times of extreme drought. The province has the task and competence to designate groundwater protection areas in the environmental regulation, to protect soil and groundwater near drinking water extractions and to take other measures in the physical habitat deemed necessary to protect drinking water sources. The province monitors the quality of groundwater and can adjust it if necessary. In the Bkl there are several instructions to the province to ensure this and also the Drinking Water Act plays a role in the protection regime. Of course, the government, together with the other authorities, remains vigilant for the quality of drinking water and, if necessary, additional measures can be taken there. Then Mrs Moonen asked whether all competent authorities are clear on who is responsible for groundwater quality and quantity. Those scrolls are brightly invested. I have a nice little table here, on which I can give you some more information. In the province are the area-oriented coordination tasks and the powers of municipalities and water boards, the protection of groundwater quality of human consumption in groundwater protection areas and the area-based approach to historical groundwater pollution. The municipalities manage their physical habitat, prevent and mitigate the adverse effects of groundwater levels, address the area-based approach to historical soil and groundwater pollution, collect sky water and collect and transport urban waste water. The waterboards include the management of regional water systems and groundwater bodies, including quality and quantity and the treatment of urban waste water. In the Empire there is the management of the state water systems and groundwater bodies, including groundwater quality and quantity. Then the CDA asked about the recording of signal parameters groundwater. Yeah, they're in there. The soil supplement decision shall contain an instruction on how to use the groundwater quality assessment signalling parameter in relation to soil contamination. Mr President, that was the block of groundwater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u20	Are there any interruptions? Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u21	It's an enlightening question. So in the implementation monitor, we really look at those groundwater management visions, and not if those environmental visions of the provinces are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u22	In the monitor we see if all successive steps are finally ready on time. There are a number of years available for implementation, but we will keep an eye on whether it is all on schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u23	So specifically for groundwater management. You can see if there's a vision, but I'm talking about the Ronnes motion, which is specifically about groundwater management. So we're gonna light that part out and see if that works out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u24	I'll see what it says specifically in the Ronnes motion: "... keep an eye on..." This is about whether provinces, municipalities and water boards are finished with their policies on time. This is therefore about the water regulation and the municipal environmental vision, which, of course, also relate to groundwater management, according to the distribution of roles just mentioned. Mr President, then knowledge and information. How does the Minister respond to improving the awareness of soil restoration in the Supplementary Act? The implementation of the reorganisation will soon be governed by the general national rules of the Act on the Environment. So the question Mrs Moonen just asked was in this folder. There is an obligation for the initiator to inform the competent authority of the outcome of the reorganisation at the end of the reorganisation. If, as a result of the reorganisation, restrictions on the use of the site can be removed, the competent authority will amend or remove them following this reorganisation and the information provided. This change will then be visible in the environment plan, via the DSO. That awareness is thus visible through the DSO in the environmental plan. If there are any restrictions, they will be entered in the register of limitations of the Registry. Is there an independent point where citizens and local authorities can go? Citizens and local authorities can contact the helpdesk of RWS Bottom+. The knowledge is disseminated through the helpdesk, but also through training courses, manuals and frequently asked questions on the website. These are websites such as soildirective.nl and bottomvizier.nl, which provide practical information. Moreover, support in knowledge and expertise is already being used through the implementation process. As much as possible, active links from the DSO to these websites will be recorded at the time of entry into force, thus saving a search. We're trying to make it as easy as we can. Mr Recourt asked whether sufficient specialist knowledge was available. Soil erosion is currently part of the basic tasks of environmental services and remains so. Under the Environmental Law they will do so for the municipalities instead of for the province. In the inter-administrative programme, all domes work together in the preparation of the Environmental Act. Many meetings are organised in the country and all kinds of tools are being developed to support implementation. We have also indicated that we are not going to stop this support immediately in 2021. We see that it will take some time. The offer of support is constantly being adapted and expanded. It looks at what support is needed. The domes themselves support their members in preparing for the Environmental Act. The implementation programme of the Bottom Covenant also works on the warm transfer of tasks from province to municipalities. The VVD asked for knowledge assurance. This is now also part of the implementation programme of the Covenant Soil and Underground. The new agreements, which I am discussing with the other governments, will also explicitly focus on knowledge assurance. Knowledge development and use of knowledge by local authorities is part of the agreement. We are now exploring with the local authorities how we want to do this. We will take those results into account in the administrative statements that we will come with later this year. Mrs Klip said: we are not just talking about 3D but actually 4D. Time is a factor. With the Soil and Underground programme included in the NOVI, the Empire aims to work together with local authorities and industry on sustainable, safe and efficient use of soil, now and in the future. Knowledge development and transfer of knowledge is therefore essential. Through the Strong the factor time is explicitly linked to the 3D-planning. So there is in fact a 4D-planning. Mrs Klip asked what the benchmark for the evaluation was. That's an important question. In order to be able to evaluate properly, the collection of information will start immediately after the entry into force, i.e. monitoring. Every two years, the Planning Bureau for the Environment produces a scientific report on the development of the quality of the environment. The Planning Bureau will carry out a zero measurement of the objectives of the NOVI in 2021. That can also be seen as a benchmark. Then we know where we started and we can compare the results of the monitoring with that. Indicators are available for all 21 national interests from the NOVI. Mr Janssen asked whether the Strategic Environment Chamber should not be given a role in monitoring and evaluation. You should always be careful with the trias politician. The Strategic Environment Chamber has an independent role in determining policy and priorities in the criminal justice approach to environmental crime. The ILT and the environmental services are members of the room. It would not be entirely pure to give them a monitoring task under the law. Let me say here that signals and trends signalled by the Strategic Environment Chamber are welcome. We can't make them do it. I don't think it's good to give them that role structurally, but I think we all benefit from getting to know the signals and trends that signal the Strategic Environment Chamber. In that sense, let me do the open invitation to share that for sure. Mr President, I am at the end of this block. There will now be a folder version and other versions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u25	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u26	Mr. Recourt is asking for an insight into enforcement and the real chance of getting caught. Of course, it is part of compliance that is the chance of getting caught and the punishment that is on it. When it comes to the real chance of enforcement, there is not one answer to everything. Monitoring is often used risk-driven. This is also an important starting point for the ILT. By definition, we have limited resources and therefore look closely at where the social risks are greatest. That's where the most bet is going to be. I am constantly working with parties to improve the performance of the VTH tasks. That's why there's gonna be a separate committee. The biennial evaluation has said that the system stands but can still be improved. Then I said: then I want to know how and what improves and where and by whom. That is why there is a separate committee which is going to make specific recommendations on how we can further strengthen this system. In this context, cooperation between different services is also a must. Knowledge sharing is extremely important for a joint enforcement strategy. Both Mr. Janssen and Mrs. Kluit asked about the Mans report. They actually asked: is there double the efficiency discount? No, it's not. The aim of the VTH system is and will continue to be to guarantee quality. There is no question of an efficiency reduction or such. So there is no efficiency that we count twice. Moreover, the budget for the VTH system of environmental services is now not directly financed by the Empire, but indirectly. It is a responsibility of the competent authority, but municipalities and provinces are of course financed by the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund. They make agreements with the environmental services again. Mr. Chairman. Then the signal from the ILT that maintaining becomes more difficult. In particular, the ILT has sent out a signal for the absence of a reporting obligation for soil graves with quality below the intervention value. That was the point of concern. Since many digging activities and earthmoving fall within this category, this would mean that the competent authority would no longer be informed prior to the digging activity. Of course, that affects supervision. This criticism has led to an adaptation in the Supplementary Decision soil. For digging below the intervention value, with a size of 45 cubic metres, there is now an obligation to provide information. That awareness has therefore been realised. Then the combination of tasks for the environment service. That is a point that Mr Rietkerk has already asked for. The current tasks are taken on by the Environment Act. The same applies to the basic tasks for soil. Logically, you shouldn't expect any trouble there. These tasks of the environmental service concern authorisation, supervision and enforcement of state rules for environmental pollution activities. They'll stay in uniform just like they are now. In most cases, the national rules will comply. So we don't expect any major problems there. In addition, the advice on authorisation of environmentally harmful activities remains part of the basic tasks package. If the competent authority would like to lay down additional tasks, it is logical that additional resources should be provided for this. This is addressed in the implementation support. Mr Janssen asked whether the Ministry was prepared and prepared to respond to incidents. Of course, you always have to be, and at the same time you always are, to a limited extent, but I think we have now seen with pfas that, if necessary, the department quickly brings the parties together and provides the means to respond quickly to what is happening. Do municipalities have enough money to fulfil their task? I share with Mrs Kluit, and also with the other Members who have made that point, the importance that municipalities have sufficient resources to carry out their tasks properly under the Environment Act. We have also discussed this extensively in the introduction law. We have made good agreements about this, but it is also important to stay in conversation about it. I have also promised you that before the summer, I will return to the Chamber the latest state of play regarding the views we have with each other on this matter. So I'll inform the Chamber about that. We'll make administrative arrangements before the summer. Does the fact that there are no open points with the domes also apply to soil? The involvement of the domes was of great importance. Many consultations have taken place in the preliminary stage. The comments made by the domes and VNO-NCW during the consultations have been incorporated as much as possible in the legislative proposal and the Supplementary Decision. There are no important points left. Administrative consultation was therefore no longer necessary. The Christian Union asked for nitrogen. When we talk about policies, we are, of course, currently in the middle of balancing measures to meet the Council of State's ruling. That is precisely one of those points where we are in the middle of policy-making and which may at some point lead to regulatory changes, with a view to measures aimed at industry, transport and agriculture. In order to improve nature quality, because that is ultimately the European directive on which it is based, it is important to look at things other than nitrogen. Hydrological measures, for example, can also contribute to the good conservation of nature. This aspect must therefore also be taken into account. Mrs Moonen asked what has been arranged for unexpected archaeological finds, which, for example, come to light when digging in the soil. The supplement track soil contains no additional provisions on archaeology, but the regime for archaeological finds is already included in the Environment Act. An arrangement in archaeology has been secured as follows in an arrangement for archaeological findings of general interest: there is always a obligation to report to a find. In the case of licensing requirements, requirements on archaeology may be linked to the environmental permit. In any case, there is always a reporting obligation so that there can always be a balance between what is needed. Then Mr Janssen specifically asked about the situation of soil decline and the possibility of allowing experimental building materials. Experimenting with building materials is possible. They do have to meet certain quality requirements. Deviations from quality requirements are not desirable because they may result in a risk to the environment or because these building materials cannot be recycled properly. Ibc building materials are building materials which, precisely because of the degree of emissions, should only be applied with insulation, management and control measures. They are being phased out because of these risks. However, it is possible to look at the development of light lifting materials that do meet the requirements. Innovation can certainly play a role, I say to Mr Janssen, in the problem of soil decline. Then the CDA asked about drug waste. Will municipalities also be compensated? Yes, municipalities are also compensated. According to IPO and VNG, some 400,000 euros out of the 1 million euros per year will be needed in the coming years for direct removal costs in private areas. Then there is still a substantial amount available to co-finance clean-up costs on municipal land. Partners involved, including IPO and VNG, are positive about these proposals. Co-financing has been chosen for municipalities because it is a common problem. The total under-utilisation of the last temporary scheme saddens 1.2 million and most provinces have now introduced provincial grant schemes, which are fed by the remaining 1.2 million. The total grant awarded was less than the resources provided by the Empire each year. In this case, we may have made more resources available than was necessary in practice. In the short term, it looks at how exactly the new JenV budget regulation is set up. Mrs Kluit had another question about fertilising. In the Supplementary Decision soil are only the rules on the techniques of the application of fertilizers to or in the soil. Other rules on maximum amount of manure and so on fall within the responsibility of the Minister of LNV with the supervision of NVWA. On 28 September 2018, the Minister of LNV offered the reinforced enforcement strategy manure to the Lower House, which aims to improve compliance with regulations in the use of manure transport and processing. The cabinet has also made additional funds available for this purpose. Mr. Chairman. This was the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u27	Thank you, Minister. This is also the end of your term. Mr Verkerk and then Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u28	As far as I am concerned, the question about nitrogen was something else. Of course, we're in the heat of Natura 2000 and PAS. My question was specifically intended for the pieces that fall outside. We see in normal natural areas that by acidification nettles and all that stuff arise, which is accompanied by the impoverishment of fauna, flora and so on et cetera. While we are talking about soil and soil policy, and you are giving explicit consideration to it in the reply, is this not a good time to start developing policies to work on the restoration of the soil, which also means the restoration of flora and fauna?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u29	It is quite right, of course, to say that it is wider than just nitrogen. The acidification of soil is due to emissions of ammonia, sulphur oxides, volatile organic compounds, emitted by factories, farms, power plants, trucks. That indeed has all kinds of effects. We have been working for a long time to reduce the acid deposition, with a wide range of measures, both international and national; extremely important. That is what we are working on. So there is a very valid point. There is a policy on this too, so fortunately we do not have to start today. But I very much share with you the importance of this policy to combat acidification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u30	Does that also mean that you want to come up with a more comprehensive policy over time in order to improve the quality of the soil?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u31	The impact on soil is actually to a large extent the result of all these measures to reduce that deposition. That is not so much a policy flown from the bottom, but from those different depositions. In addition, the Minister of Agriculture and Nature is of course also responsible for improving the quality of those natural areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u32	Mr. Verkerk on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u33	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u34	I have a question about the part of funding through the Municipal Fund of the, as far as we are concerned, robust environmental services. Can the Minister comment on the relationship that if there are new national interests and national tasks carried out by the municipalities, the Community Fund will have sufficient financial resources? Is this through a target benefit or is it in the general distribution of the Municipal Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u35	I believe that any transfer of tasks or the establishment of new tasks within the municipalities will always involve a discussion of the financial resources involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u36	And when it comes to national interests that are carried out at regional level, i.e. at local or municipal level, by those environmental services, are you prepared to reach out to local authorities with state funding? Otherwise, we will have a national task that will be carried out by the municipalities, and then the ILT says: it is not being carried out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u37	It is, of course, important to determine whether they are new tasks, or whether they are tasks that are already in the municipality and there is an intensification. It is therefore not always possible to answer this with a yes or no in general, also because it may already be covered by some of the financial agreements that have been made. But of course we are also constantly discussing with the municipalities and the provinces whether they have sufficient resources for the tasks they have or are given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u38	When it comes to new tasks of national interest, and I am not talking about half of the tasks, or tasks that are already there, which, because of the current situation, the Minister himself has mentioned the issues of the 'Training' which lead to new activities in the municipal domain in the implementation, through those environmental services, so that no new tasks are involved, do you then hand over to the municipal authorities by giving them sufficient resources to carry out those tasks, which are of national interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u39	I think that's just part of the Financial Relationship Act. So it is always necessary to examine whether that means new financial flows. We will, of course, go through these steps in new tasks, because those are just the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u40	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Klip-Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I would like to thank the Minister and her officials for the answers, which were and were once again enlightening. I am not going to repeat the answers we are all happy and satisfied with. I have one point, partly in line with Mr Rietkerk's last point. I have heard her say several times in the Minister's total reply about this category of soil or this supplement law soil, that she is in consultation with the local authorities. And it seems like every time that's a new conversation, but they're all done by the end of this year, so I'm assuming it's one total conversation in the end. This is, among other things, about knowledge development. You said that's a living program. We are pleased with that. On the other hand, it is about cooperation, but also about money. Mr Rietkerk also mentioned this. You replied to the question put by the VVD on this subject, particularly with regard to pfas, but it is perhaps not entirely unimaginable that we are encountering even more nasty substances that will also be discussed, including knowledge, new forms of cooperation and money. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to send the outcome of these talks with the local authorities on all these different aspects to this Chamber as well. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I call Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers and through her the advisers who also contribute to the quality of this debate. I've got four points. First of all, the CDA Group supports the Minister's approach to soil restoration with longer-term co-governments, the new programme. This also calls for the use of state resources, and I would like to join the VVD Group, for example, in the case of pfas. If there are national standards, from the point of view of national importance, this also means that, in order to carry out tasks effectively, the State must provide financial assistance. Because that's what it's all about in the end. The second point is the lack of depth of the puddles. The Minister also mentioned B-Ware for research, analysis and impact measurement in my own words, and that in 2020 the results of the study for peeing would be presented. The Minister mentioned the concepts: impacts on nature and ecological management. Can I ask the Minister to include the groundwater quality and the effect on the animals in pastures, cows and sheep, but also the drinking water of people, because these are often the interests of the environment? My third point is the robust environmental services. I think we are looking forward to the progress letter for the KB with interest when it comes to the issue of investment for the co-governments. Of course, competent authorities also have their own responsibility, but when it comes to the new national tasks or national legislation, we would like to be able to assess in the progress letter to the Royal Decree whether there can be effective implementation, or whether there is simply a great deal of consultation and too little taking place, which ultimately makes enforcement, supervision and licensing inadequate. Fourth and final point: monitoring and evaluation. During the debate on 27 and 28 January, the Minister promised this Chamber that an independent evaluation committee would be set up to report annually and that we could also monitor it digitally. Thank you for that. Can the Minister indicate whether the independent evaluation committee is also specifically reporting on authorisation, monitoring and enforcement, especially with regard to soil? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for replying. One question remains, but I will come back to that. A specific question. The covenant expires in 2020. There are talks about new appointments now. This can lead to a standstill in the approach, because everyone is waiting for new agreements to come. "We don't do anything, because we need to see how the new appointments work out." How is the Minister going to make sure this doesn't happen? Because delay is often not desirable in soil matters. The minister didn't respond to a question exactly as I intended him to. She said the Ministry naturally responds to incidents. But I'm not interested in the incidents. I'm interested in responding actively to signals. Often, after incidents, we see that there were signs, but that they remained somewhere. My question was specific: can the Minister provide open lines, including at the Ministry? These lines then have to go two ways, for example to the National Information and Expertise Centre, or to the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, or to the Environmental Room. By the way, I mean not the Strategic Environment Chamber, but the ordinary Environment Chamber. Can the minister make sure those signals are picked up somewhere? Because we often see afterwards that we had it somewhere, but that nothing was done with it. Can the Minister see to it that this is actively arrested? I agree with the Minister that the SMK, the Strategic Environment Chamber, may not be the ideal partner, given the discussions that are taking place there. I got to do that for a couple of years, and that's where some really tough stuff comes along, I'll say. They're things with the police, with the functional parquet and with the ILT. Everyone's meeting there. In that respect, the Environmental Law is pure sang, because all the information is there in one hand. But I will bring the part of the report to the attention of the secretary of the SMK, so that it is also invited to give those signals. I know that was always a point. We liked to do that from the Strategic Environment Room. Mr. Chairman. That there are no more points for the domes and that there is no need for administrative consultation, that is what we are going to see towards the KB, if it is further specified. I was a little disappointed by the answer about the possibilities of doing something in areas with a decline in soil. It is precisely because this is perceived as rigid that I would like to deny to the Minister the possibility of something as a hardness clause. These are materials that cannot be qualified as regular applications at the moment, but which are in the experimental phase, and it is not something someone is crafting at a company, but materials from institutes such as Deltares, TNO et cetera. For example, there can be consultations with the Ministry on substances which may not yet be applied under the hard rules, but where there is mutual confidence that it is good for the environment. So something of a hardness clause in that would be nice. They're running a little against the hard limits right now. So my question to the Minister is not that everything should be allowed in advance. My question is that it is not excluded by a hardness clause. Soon it will be banned, and that would be a pity, because we must have innovation in those areas. When I look, for example, at the Green Heart, I see a lot of investment from the regional deals in looking at how knowledge and innovation can be applied. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question that has remained as far as I am concerned. I drew the Minister's attention to the risk of undermining the administrative balance. Substances that can actually be classified as waste will then be mixed with clean soil. That happens a lot, with a lot of misery. Will the Minister make the link with the ministry of JenV on the subject of undermining? Although it often happens under the radar, waste fraud still involves more money than drug trafficking. It's huge sums and it's hugely lucrative. At a time when all the trucks are going to be driving again, especially now in the phase-out crisis, the risks of everything going wrong are growing. We have discussed this with your colleague before. So I would like to hear from the Minister that that link can be established. Together we can then ensure that this is monitored, with that integrated approach again, also from the role of the Inspection Environment and Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u46	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u47	Mr. Chairman. I am satisfied with the answer to all the questions in the first term and I do not really need a second term anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u48	Well, Mrs Moonen, that's clear. I call Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u49	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for the pleasant answer to the questions. I also think it is very nice that she first addresses the questions in substance. Then you can also have a substantive debate and then you can move on. I am glad that we were also able to talk a little more about roles and culture. And I welcome the commitment made by the Minister to make this really discussable and try to take small steps again. Also a "thank you" for the talks about power and counterpower. I also understand that you can't always pull in what you can. I would have liked to tempt the Minister to make a commitment to improve quality towards nature. It is not so bad that this has not been done, but it is a point that I will perhaps continue to raise in the future. In a particular radio programme they say: you have been warned. But that's what I'm talking about in a very positive way. We have made specific reference to the need to evaluate the protection of citizens and the balance between protection and exploitation in the review of the law, including in the area of soil. I may have missed it for a while, but I assume the Minister has agreed to do so. If that's not a promise, I'd really like to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mr Recourt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister and thank you, Minister's officials. The soil quality in the Netherlands needs to be raised, but you cannot pay for the supplement law and the decision soil. The cabinet does, by the way, but with other measures. It is a system change, and the change does not make it any more difficult. That's an important consideration. There are a number of points I would like to address very briefly. Investment is being made in knowledge support. But I hear above all that investment is being made in the implementation phase. However, this legislation must last around 50 years. So how does this remain structurally secure with especially smaller municipalities? I would like to raise two points, but I do not have any questions. I note that practice must determine the role of the judge. What about risk-driven surveillance? In theory, it's beautiful, but you just need supervisors who actually control during the day and at night. The system is important in this respect, but the practice is particularly effective if it is properly implemented. So I hope that goes well. But we continue to evaluate. I agree with the questions of the Christian Union and the CDA on this point. This evaluation must also be very explicit about soil. Other commitments also seem to provide sufficient relief to keep up with and, where appropriate, update developments in practice. This is particularly true of the commitments made in the previous debate on the implementation law. I will give my group a positive opinion on this law and this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u52	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u53	It's a marathon session, but if we hurry up, everyone can go home in half an hour. I would like to thank both the Minister and the people above for the answer. I look forward to the letter on granules with interest. Maybe we still have some questions, but it's nice that this gets a little more attention separately, if there's a little less rush. Thanks also for answering the questions about manure. I wasn't aware that I had asked them, but I'm glad there was a clear answer. I am also pleased that the Minister has clearly indicated that governments must weigh both biological and chemical quality, in addition to health. I am pleased that this has been explicitly mentioned in this debate. There are two questions left for me. I would like to ask the Minister in the cost statement we get for the royal decision to clarify the tasks associated with the soil, so that it is clear what we are talking about in relation to the environmental services and the VTH column. In addition, I have a similar question about peeing. Is an EIA sufficient or should it be an EIA? We have already agreed in the other debate that the EIA assessments will be monitored. Is it possible to take the projects related to peeing explicitly? There are signs, although we do not know exactly what is going on, that in 99% of cases these EIA assessments no longer lead to an EIA. It might be useful to keep an eye on how the proportions lie there, specifically for those deep peeing. Can they be taken out and monitored explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u54	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u55	Mr. Chairman. There may be another note on some point, but I'll get started. The CDA and the VVD made a point about job and money. It is perhaps appropriate to clarify that Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act states that it is always necessary to examine whether additional money is involved in the transfer of new tasks. That's what we always do. This also applies to new tasks in this context that would be transferred. Then that investigation will always take place. I repeat that, in the context of the Covenant Soil and Underground Implementing Programme, we are currently agreeing with the domes for the period from 2021, also in view of the new problems that have arisen. At first we thought that we would be ready with the emergency location by 2020 and that everything would have been financed, but now another problem has arisen. I have indicated that I will try to inform Parliament before the summer of the administrative arrangements with the domes. I have already earmarked funds in the IenW budget for these agreements. The joint conclusion may be that part of these resources may need to be devoted to developing knowledge that is then available to everyone. Part of the resources the Empire is using may be important to prevent everyone from inventing the wheel separately. It is a question of strengthening the knowledge base and knowledge sharing. We therefore have resources available in the IenW budget for these problems. I think those were the questions. Of course, I will inform the Chamber of the outcome of the talks. Then it's peeing and B-WARE. Mr Rietkerk asked whether groundwater quality was included in that research. Yes, groundwater quality is included in the study of B-WARE. Mr Rietkerk also asked if I could promise that the independent evaluation committee will also take the monitor VTH with regard to soil. Mrs Kluit also asked. The answer is yes, the monitor VTH can provide input. So we're going to monitor every year and once every five years there's an evaluation. Then there's information coming to the Rooms. We shouldn't confuse these two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u56	It's a very clear question. The independent evaluation committee shall report annually. How does that fit in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u57	The independent evaluation committee shall carry out the evaluation after those five years. Every year there will be a monitoring. You also want to see the system run for a while to evaluate whether it works. So that's what the independent evaluation committee is looking at. In the meantime, we keep monitoring all these things. You will also receive an annual monitoring report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u58	Then we are all the more interested in the progress letter, because I believe we have a commitment from the debate on 27 and 28 January. The CDA Group with other groups has not tabled a motion in this respect, because the commitment has been given that the independent evaluation committee reports annually. Then we'll take a good look at the wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u59	I may not have that in my head. Then let's take a good look at the wording in the letter. We're definitely gonna take a look at that. We share that the image must be established independently. I'll see how it's promised there. We will also ensure that it is clearly stated in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u60	Since it has been discussed before, I hope that the Minister will look in the Acts at what the commitment was and not in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u61	Sure. To return to this point, at the request of your Chamber, I tried to sum up in a letter very quickly at 17 o'clock. We knew in advance that this would never do justice to the richness of the debate. Of course, the Acts are leading. We will review them again before we give further information about them in the progress letter, if there is any need. What has been promised has been promised. Mr. Janssen asked about actively picking up signals. I share with him that there must be openness. Can you guarantee that you'll never miss a signal? No, but I think he is right to say: let's make sure that there is openness, to pick up early signals and get on with it seriously. I certainly share that commitment with Mr Janssen. Both from the ILT, from the Environment Chamber, practical signals: we must always be open to that. A hardness clause on bottom descent: is there more space? The Crisis and Recovery Act offers opportunities for this in some cases. The experimental space is continued under the Environmental Act. Initiators can definitely report to BZK for possibilities. A discussion about the assessment is therefore always possible in that sense. The disposal of garbage. Mr Janssen and I share the concerns about the waste domain. We would like to go to a situation where we only have raw materials and not waste, but we are not there yet. It's something to consciously deal with. The ILT and the D.A. are very important in that. Data is shared where possible. It's something to stay sharp with each other. Can the EIA assessment obligation be monitored at the point of deep puddle? Yes, we will. Let's see. This was the question from CDA and VVD about the arrangements. I already answered that one. I'll take a look at my own list. Undermining: Do we want to make the link with JenV? Yeah, as far as I'm concerned. We need to look at all the signals. Is soil also specifically involved in the evaluation of exploitation and protection and the protection of citizens? Yeah, we should definitely look at that, too. The PvdA asked how knowledge support is structurally secured. Part of that knowledge and expertise are part of the environmental services and are secured there. In addressing the very worrying substances, I also consider it very important that we focus on knowledge sharing. That is why it may also be that, as I have just said, we sometimes use part of the resources to obtain and share knowledge rather than simply distribute them, because that may not always lead to the same efficient solution. Risk-based monitoring: monitoring is necessary. Agreed. When we look at the VTH system, we will also see where the system can be improved. But indeed, both planned and unplanned controls are an extremely important part of effective enforcement. At the cost overview for the summer come the current figures of all re-examinations. The EIA assessment and monitoring deep peeing, I have already indicated. Then the CDA. The progress letter this summer is not about the efficient implementation or too much consultation or too little or insufficient VTH. It's about how far they are with the implementation. That's what the progress note is about. In addition, I said I'm looking at the VTH system. I will leave the committee to make recommendations on how the system can be strengthened and where it should be. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered the questions put by Members in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u62	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-17.u63	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week.
