ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the temporary suspension of periodic penalty payments (35476). I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I actually want to agree with you that four questions can be asked in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. As a result of corona, the Chamber cannot operate at full power. Only the most urgent laws are still being dealt with. However, the law we are discussing tonight would not have been necessary at all if the government had not made such a mess of it. Until recently, there was no problem at all with periodic penalty payments. The system worked pretty well. Asylum applications were handled fairly in time, even with a growing number of asylum applications, for example in 2015, when a large stream of asylum seekers came to the Netherlands. That stream was much larger than the number that has come to our country in recent years. A lot of work has been done to assess these applications. There was therefore no spectacular increase in the payment of periodic penalty payments in the following years. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? Until the Rutte/Asscher cabinet decided to make substantial cuts on the IND. A massive discharge of competent IND employees was the result. The result is today: huge waiting times. Real refugees are the victims. They often have to wait over a year for their procedure. That's a waste of time. The reception is expensive and there is little to it, because asylum seekers without status are not allowed to do so. This could have been avoided if Rutte II had not made such short cuts. Today's costs, as a result of the periodic penalty payments, amount to EUR 70 million, up to possibly EUR 1 million per week, said the Secretary of State. That, of course, is very annoying and cannot be explained. So we had to negotiate in the coalition. According to the NRC of 9 April, the CDA and the VVD in particular wanted to get rid of the scheme. D66 and the Christian Union wanted to retain legal aid in return. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if this is true. I welcome the maintenance of legal aid, but the question is what is the result of abolishing the penalty payment. Isn't this gonna lead to new problems? I also read that the Christian Union has tried to include a few dozen children from Greece in exchange for the penalty payment measure. That was unsuccessful, writes NRC. And now, so I ask the coalition and Mr Voordewind in particular. You're just gonna let the kids die? Is the Greek Government's request put aside, while the alternative plan to accommodate children in Greece is highly controversial? I took another motion to that effect. I will put it to the vote next week. Mr. Chairman. Because of the long waiting times, not only do promising asylum seekers have to wait much longer. Also disadvantaged asylum seekers will be given the opportunity to extend their stay. This is particularly regrettable for the support for asylum reception. For asylum seekers who are not entitled to asylum must, of course, return as soon as possible, especially when it comes to harassing asylum seekers from safe countries, the Achilles heel of asylum policy. They too benefit from the long waiting times caused by these cuts. What can you do about this? You can simply abolish the penalty payment and hope it works out. That's what the PVV and the government are proposing. It is a bit like peeing a game, because yesterday we received pieces from the PVV and today we are standing here because we have to deal with this law on a proposal and vote on it tomorrow, that is what I read. Is that correct, Mr. Chairman? I've seen that somewhere. I think that is very quick, but it must be arranged in a timely manner, because otherwise the PVV might come up with its law and then it all gets complicated again. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The simple abolition of the penalty payment is, of course, not a real solution. The Council of State also says that. It is even discrimination, said Minister Donner at the time, because you maintain that penalty payment for other matters. I'd like a response. The government is now coming up with a temporary law for one year. But it will also remain in force until there is a permanent law. That's crazy, of course. Is it for a year now, or for longer? That is why I support Mr Van Ojik's amendment to stick to one year, until 1 April 2021. The possibility of appeal is also abolished. That's a bad idea, I think, along with the Council of State. That is why I also support Mr Van Ojik's amendment on this. Instead of abolishing the penalty payment, I propose an alternative. 'Cause I'm not happy about the high costs, either. Let's get that straight. Why doesn't the government choose to temporarily extend these decision-making mines to a time limit that is feasible for the IND? This possibility exists, if I am correct, also in the Aliens Act, in Article 42 (4) and (5). Is that right? The government states that this would not comply with the European Directive on the timely fulfilment of asylum matters. I would ask the Secretary of State to do so. What will happen after you have abolished the penalty payment? In that case, these waiting times will not be resolved, so the government will still be in breach of the directive. You can say it even more strongly: the Penalty Act ensures that the European directive is complied with. Do you share that opinion? An extension of the decision-making period will only be temporary, as the government promises that the waiting periods will be in order in 2021. Am I right? The Secretary of State opts for suspension of that Penalty Act and then a permanent law containing no penalty payment but an alternative incentive to deal with proceedings in good time. What's that supposed to mean? I'm reading something about a periodic report and a safety valve. I'd like an explanation. Finally, I ask the government: why is it difficult when it can be done easily? Set up a temporary extension of the decision-makers' mines. Make sure the procedures are in order after that. The only thing you shouldn't do anymore is cut short on the IND. But the government has learned that lesson by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under the responsibility of this Secretary of State and those of its predecessors, the waiting times at the IND have got out of hand in such a way that the Dutch State currently pays EUR 1 million in periodic penalty payments per week. It is now in many cases longer than a year before you, as an asylum seeker, know what you are up to. And there are people who even have to wait two years. And that while the number of people applying for asylum in the Netherlands has been more or less constant for years. The Secretary of State has asked for advice on what to do about it now. She comes up with a number of measures, which she calls "unorthodox." What are we supposed to think about? The introduction of intelligent planning, says the Secretary of State. That is indeed unorthodox; I must admit that. And we're gonna have button-chopping teams. Their job is to make decisions in difficult cases. That's a good idea. Maybe that should have happened sooner. Furthermore, on 9 April, the Cabinet announced the recruitment of additional staff, the outsourcing to legal offices and an investigation into the possibility of hearing in writing. These measures give the State Secretary the confidence that it will be able to leave the issue of time-limits and periodic penalty payments from 2021 onwards, which is six months from now. How's it going, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Are we still on schedule? Are the waiting times already getting shorter? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Part of what the cabinet calls "an intelligent approach" is now also the law now before it, a law that abolishes periodic penalty payments and also appeals. The proposal before us does not aim to address the idiotic waiting times faced by asylum seekers, but rather to suspend the penalty payment that they can demand if the IND does not decide in good time. A better example of symptom control rarely comes along here. My group has serious objections to the present law. The law removes the sanction that the citizen has in order to encourage the government to comply with the rules that the government itself has drawn up. This is important for two-way traffic in the rule of law. The citizen complies with the rules of government and is sanctioned if he does not, and at the same time the citizen of the State can expect him to comply with the rules. If this does not happen, citizens can appeal and be compensated financially. For asylum seekers, that is different, says the cabinet now. They are compensated for the cost of living and legal aid and would therefore not, in the event of a late decision, be entitled to a periodic penalty payment. That reeks of occasional argumentation. The Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs rightly points out that these costs were already reimbursed at the time of the introduction of the Penalty Law and that this was not a reason to exclude asylum seekers from the scheme at that time. An amendment to the Aliens Act aimed at this exclusion was rejected by the Chamber at the time. The Council of State adds the following. I quote: "Because of the IND's structural inability to decide on time, the penalty payment was seen as an effective incentive for the IND to decide on time." At that time, the IND was given three years to shorten the decision-makers' mines before the decision came into force on the Aliens' Act. Can the Secretary of State explain how what was then seen as an effective incentive to tackle a structural problem did not work that way? Could it possibly have been worse if it hadn't been for that incentive? Or have successive Cabinets underestimated the waiting times and problems with the IND in such a way that there is no incentive to do so? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. My group would be happy to consider a temporary suspension of the penalty payment if the cabinet were to make it possible for this to speed up waiting times to the legal deadline. But on the list of measures announced by the Cabinet in April in order to achieve this, I mentioned those intelligent, unorthodox measures just lacked the removal of the penalty payment. Hence my question: how much earlier than the beginning of 2021, when the Secretary of State now wants to meet the legal standard, will the waiting times again be within the legal standard if we adopt this law? Mr President, on the subject of the profession. The Secretary of State also wants to delete the possibility of appealing against the late decision by the IND in the present law. GroenLinks believes that abolition is undesirable. The Council of State agrees with this view, as does the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs and Refugee Work. In fact, the Secretary of State also thinks so. But, as she says, we're in an unusual situation and such a professional case takes too much time. By the way, the ACVZ is questioning this. Does that take so much time? Here again, I ask how many waiting times are in place before the beginning of 2021 if the profession is abolished. Such justification of the necessity of this measure is completely lacking in the documents. I'll ask the Secretary of State to deliver it after all. The Secretary of State ignores the Council of State's warning that, if the administrative route is closed, an action before the civil court is admissible and may lead to a decision to impose a penalty payment. The Secretary of State says on this point that the government, I quote, considers it conceivable that the civil court will be reluctant to receive claims during this period. The Secretary of State considers it conceivable. How did she come to this, I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. Has she discussed this with judges, with the Court of Justice or with the Supreme Court? Is it wise at all for a member of the cabinet to interfere so clearly with what a judge can or cannot allow or decide? I actually thought that such a clue should be unthinkable. GroenLinks is not convinced, as has been said, of the need to suspend the fundamental right of appeal. That is why I tabled an amendment, supported by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Kuik, to remove it from the legislative proposal. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to that amendment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on temporaryity. You would say: a law such as this, with the aim of avoiding review procedures and periodic penalty payments, can be repealed once the waiting times are back within the rules. For example, there is another incentive to prevent recurrence. But the Secretary of State doesn't want that. The present bill is called a temporary law, but can theoretically take a very long time. There is an ingenious provision in it, which says that the law stops working after a year, unless by that time a final bill has been submitted to the House of Representatives. Then the temporary law will remain in force until the new law is introduced or rejected. That this might take a while, we all know. Anyone who has been in the Chamber for some time knows that it is possible to wait months to answer written questions. Further opinions can be requested, hearings, technical briefings: what do we not know to buy time? If the Secretary of State really believes that this is a temporary law, intended only for the period during which it intends to get the IND back on track with its task force, a deadline of 1 April 2021 should be broadly sufficient. Or does the Secretary of State already have reason to believe that the self-inflicted chaos at the IND April next year has still not been remedied? Then, of course, we must have a different debate. Mr President, I shall conclude. Since I, like the Secretary of State herself, assume that she will be able to get the lead time in the IND by April 2021, I have tabled an amendment to limit the operation of this bill by 1 April 2021. I would also like to hear a reaction to that. Mr President, I look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State and, of course, to the contributions of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, we are discussing the bill to urgently abolish periodic penalty payments for non-time payments by the IND, pending a final law. The VVD welcomes the fact that asylum seekers will no longer be able to receive a penalty payment from the IND if an asylum application is not decided in good time. It cannot be explained that the asylum procedure can currently claim up to €15,000 per person in periodic penalty payments and that this could cost the public authorities some EUR 70 million in one year. Especially since Refugee Work and asylum attorneys seem to strongly recommend asylum seekers to actually make use of this claim. As far as is known, there is no other Member State that offers asylum seekers this generous opportunity and our taxpayers' money is not intended for claims of asylum seekers but for useful things, such as faster decisions by the IND. Yes, the VVD also believes that this organisation should be in order quickly, that asylum seekers should know in good time where they are going, so that they can quickly return to their country of origin or start their integration obligations. It is good that this coalition has provided structural additional funding for the decision-making capacity at the IND, which means that the backlogs must be resolved by early 2021. We regret that the previously promised 'in order by 2020' cannot be achieved. However, it is a good thing that the Secretary of State has set up a task force that can speed up the catching up. She writes that the Chamber will be informed about the progress shortly after the summer. But what can the Secretary of State say today? How does it ensure care when I read that certain actions in the asylum process will also be outsourced to legal agencies? Can it guarantee that each individual assessment is carried out strictly and carefully? In spite of all the fuss, does the IND still have the room to fulfil the commitment to the VVD that all the files of Syrians who were granted a rapid authorisation in 2015 and 2016 will be reviewed before they can obtain a permanent residence permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mrs Becker says that she is okay with abolishing these periodic penalty payments, because the money can be better spent on useful things, for example on shortening the procedures at the IND. The latter, I'm very much in favour of that. I have no idea how much one contributes to the other. I asked the Secretary of State. I would like to ask Mrs Becker if she has any idea how much faster we will be in order if we abolish the periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u9	In the report, I also asked what savings this would make. The Secretary of State has not been able to fully quantify this, because of the speed with which it has made this law and the influence of corona on the procedures. I understand. However, the IND is currently using scarce capacity to handle these claims and these periodic penalty payments. The Secretary of State writes that this is a very sin, because these people should be used to deal with asylum matters. I totally agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u10	On some points, the Secretary of State is very specific. When answering the written questions, for example, she says: I am in order at the beginning of 2021. I'm just gonna say that at home. My question is how much earlier we will be in order if we are going to do this. Are we gonna be okay in September or October? If we do not know that at all, for example because we are in a hurry now, it is difficult to use it as an argument for abolishing the periodic penalty payments. It's hard when you don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u11	Now Mr Van Ojik suggests that the only reason for submitting this law would be that he will contribute to the capacity at the IND. That'll be one of the effects. But for me, it is even more important that we do not lose money on these periodic penalty payments and can use resources to speed up procedures. Apart from that, my argument and that of the VVD is that we believe that asylum seekers should not be entitled to periodic penalty payments. Mr Van Ojik will be aware of that. That is why, when this was introduced in 2006, we tabled an amendment not to do so. It didn't make it. I am pleased that we are still deciding today not to offer this opportunity, because I really believe that there are other incentives that will ensure that the IND decides quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u12	My third question. That is because Mrs Becker says again in answering my second question: it is nice that we can use that money to shorten the procedures. Then I have a simple question. In my contribution, I said that I am quite prepared to think about this if this would be a great acceleration, and if asylum seekers also have much quicker clarity. Then it's best to talk to GroenLinks about it. But I'm completely in the dark. I have to agree or, of course, not agree. I am asked to agree to a law, while I have no idea what its effect is, except that asylum seekers no longer have the right to apply for a penalty in an appeal procedure. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u13	This is not entirely true, because Mr Van Ojik himself asked in the note on the report: could the government not have seen this coming sooner? What has been paid in periodic penalty payments over the years? The Secretary of State has made it very nicely known what it costs the government every year, starting from 2013. There's also a state over what that's funded from. These are all sources in the asylum chain, for example the COA and the IND. These are all bodies that should be dealing with what I believe Mr Van Ojik wants: to ensure that people who are entitled to asylum quickly hear that they can integrate, and that people who are not entitled can return quickly. As far as I'm concerned, getting things in order is the beginning. I'd like it to go even faster. Every profit we can make in this is well taken away. Once again, there is also a fundamental reason for me: I believe that asylum seekers should not apply for a penalty payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if she knows whether, in addition to investment in the capacity of the IND, there are other possible legislative and regulatory measures that could make the procedures at the IND faster and more efficient. Would she care to take stock of that? I also have the following specific question about the legislative proposal. Does the Secretary of State have more information on the total amount of periodic penalty payments paid and that this bill can be saved? That is in line with what Mr Van Ojik has just asked. The Secretary of State writes an attempt to inform us about this in the budgetary procedure, but I would like it if we could have some sort of assessment during the legal procedure today. Can she give it to you? The State Secretary further writes that it assumes that an alternative incentive for the IND is not really necessary, as the organisation will be in order at the beginning of 2021. However, it is thinking as an alternative incentive to include in a final legislative proposal a periodic report on the decision-makers' mines, and a legal instrument is then used for that purpose. Now the VVD can find itself in such a periodic report, but we still don't quite know what to imagine with such a legal instrument. The Secretary of State writes that the legal instrument should ensure that decisions based on reporting can actually be taken. Can she give a little more coloration to that? And can the Secretary of State confirm once again that an alternative incentive will in any case not be the automatic granting of a residence permit after six weeks, as was claimed in a wake-up-to-morning newspaper? I hope we can take that away today. Can the Secretary of State further confirm that, once a final law has been submitted to the Chamber to put an end to the periodic penalty payments, this temporary proposal will automatically go through until the examination is completed, even if that legislation does not take into account the expected duration of the period of over a year? Finally. Can the Secretary of State indicate when it intends to send the final law to the Chamber? As far as I am concerned, it would be very nice if we could still use summer time for consultation, so that we can start the final legal treatment soon after the summer recess. I am very curious to hear the answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA is also pleased that we can deal with this bill at such short notice. I saw you scared for a moment. Are we going to vote tomorrow? No, because we agreed that we would not vote on Thursday, other than when there is a European Council. That is something we have to abide by in this case, although of course we would have liked to have been able to vote on it very quickly, because the more we speed up this bill, the better it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u18	I don't do screaming so fast, but I thought maybe Mr. Jasper van Dijk knows more than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u19	No, but that wish was shared in committee at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u20	I'm not one of them. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u21	No, exactly. That's why I'm enlightening you in this darkness. Mr. Chairman. It is important that we deal with this bill because at the moment we have lost a lot of money to something we are all unhappy with. It takes a very long time for people to get a decision and it seems that they are being encouraged to try to receive those periodic penalty payments. Eventually that is a wrong incentive, because if all of that goes through again, the IND is only going to work on it for longer. I don't think we should. It is also difficult to predict; we realize that. We saw a large flow of refugees in 2015. It turned out to be very difficult to estimate how many people would be needed to provide all these people with a proper decision. Fortunately, we agreed with each other that what happened in previous periods has been quite unwise, namely the huge cut-off on the IND because you think there is no one left and no more people need to be deployed. You need a much more stable funding from the IND, because then you can always do people justice when they come to the Netherlands. That has already been a very important step. Wider funding has also been a very important step, because you should not only look at periodic penalty payments, but also make sure that you get things in order. Fortunately, we have been able to contribute to this. But saying otherwise they get a penalty payment, we don't find a suitable stick behind the door to let the IND decide quickly. I don't think that's gonna work. We can see that too, because the system doesn't work. The periodic penalty payments are only running up and the deadlines are not working. We also see that there is no country in Europe that organises it in this way. Other Members also spoke about this. There is therefore no international obligation to enforce those timely decisions in this way. I also think it is important to keep an eye on the fact that displaced flows, secondary migration, may be discouraged by not saying in the Netherlands that if it takes a very long time, you might get a penalty payment. I think this is also a way to prevent you from becoming attractive to currents that you don't want. That is why we welcome this arrangement. That does not mean that my group does not think it is important for a decision to be taken quickly. My group cannot stress this often enough. A decision has to be made very quickly for people. The Secretary of State, of course, has that task force and she has announced all kinds of measures to ensure that there is more direction and more ownership in certain decisions and complicated procedures. But it has also indicated that it wants to do more. I'm a little curious about that. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether there are any more thoughts about what incentives it will be, including the IND, to ensure that the decisions are made on time. Maybe the Secretary of State can say a little more about that. Let it be said: if the incentive is that if it takes a very long time, in that case you automatically get a positive decision, then that is an incentive that we as CDA would absolutely not want to see. We can support the law. There are a number of questions that are relevant that I do not need to repeat here on the late evening. I do have one supplementary question. The money that may no longer be spent by this, and which de facto saves money, will that eventually come back to the IND? That is important, because the IND must eventually have the space to do people justice quickly. How exactly is that going with the money that is now possible? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? But we are mainly interested in what the Secretary of State is going to do to make things smooth and to make sure that people get a decision quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u22	I would like to ask whether Mrs Van Toorenburg would like to reflect on the criticism of the Council of State about this law, and also on the criticism of former Minister Donner, who said about the amendment of the VVD at the time: we should not do that, because it has a discriminatory element if you are only going to abolish that penalty payment for foreigners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u23	I disagree. I think that foreigners have a different position in this society when they are taken care of in all kinds of important ways, and rightly so. I read that argument back, and I support it. Those who enter into proceedings will be provided with proper legal assistance. In fact, we initially had an idea in the coalition agreement to do something about that. That's what we're trying to balance better. I think we do justice to people. So I think it is actually very good that we are taking this measure. I didn't think it was necessary. I understand that former Minister Donner had other thoughts on this and I also know the opinions of the Council of State. But I don't share those thoughts. I think I can explain that we are simply investing the money in the IND and that we are ensuring that procedures are put in place as soon as possible. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how they can be speeded up. But I think it's kind of weird to start giving people money because it's all taking a really long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u24	And what does Mrs Van Toorenburg think of the criticism of the Council of State? He says: by such a temporary law you must at least set an end date. GroenLinks, the PvdA and the SP propose in their amendment that it be tabled on 1 April next year. Can you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u25	No, because in the end, I want a definitive end to this penalty payment scheme. We need this temporary law to finally deal with the right law and not rush it through the Chamber. This is not how we deal with each other in this democracy. So we are trying to take emergency measures first, because we are just terribly out of control with the money. We'd like to keep that money with the IND to make sure people get decisions faster. In the end, we have to make a decent permanent law, and then we will treat it nicely. And it is true that it is better to say: we have a temporary law and it ends when the new law enters into force. It's not the first time we've done that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u26	I would like to put the same question to Mrs Van Toorenburg as I asked Mrs Becker. She also says: we would like to keep that money with the IND, so that decisions can be made more quickly. I have just said that it is in everyone's best interest to decide faster. I just have no idea how much faster decisions this law will lead to. It is therefore a matter of this temporary law, which Mrs Van Toorenburg is enthusiastic about. How will they contribute to the goal of faster decision-making? The Secretary of State wrote to us, in response to written questions, that the matter is in order at the beginning of 2021. This was based on the measures it announced and introduced in April. I wonder how much faster we're going to be now because we're going to adopt this law with steam and boiling water. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg have any idea about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u27	Of course, it's a total package. A number of measures are being taken to speed up the decision-making process. That started with the money we have added, and it has gone further by organising that more stable funding. The Secretary of State then set up a task force and took all kinds of important steps to ensure that it can work better. Mr Van Ojik summarized them in a very creative way in his words. If I say it a little more businesslike, it's really a task force. More direction in these procedures will speed things up. This law will not, as such, ensure that everything goes very much faster, just as the periodic penalty payments did not ensure that it all goes very much faster. The only thing we end up with is that we are spending a million dollars a week, when we actually want that money to be spent on the swift handling of procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u28	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by making it clear that the PVV is strongly in favour of abolishing the penalty payment scheme for asylum seekers. If it had been up to the PVV, this scheme would not even have been there. That is why my party leader opposed this in 2006. Unfortunately, in the meantime, in all these years, many millions of euros of Dutch taxpayers' money have disappeared in the pockets of gripping asylum seekers, culminating recently in the EUR 1 million per week under Mrs Broekers-Knol. For months, however, the Secretary of State closed her eyes to these money-eating gang profiteers and the bad legislation that made this all possible. But now it's finally time. The PVV first had to send an initiative law to the Chamber, but after more than six months the cabinet came out of the lazy chair to deal with abuse of the penalty payment scheme by asylum seekers. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State's indecision over the last few months has given rise to many millions of euros. That is harsh, because the PVV already called in November 2019 about the exorbitant amounts of periodic penalty payments that were paid to asylum seekers. But the VVD executive didn't think it was necessary to do anything about the periodic penalty payments at that time. A motion by the PVV that called for the cessation of payment of periodic penalty payments was firmly rejected and dissuaded by the Secretary of State. The VVD in the Chamber didn't care either. He tried to put things off by asking for an investigation into the possibility of limiting periodic penalty payments. So not abolish it, but limit it and do a little research. What a lack of action. Meanwhile, the VVD continuously announced in the media the mantra of shelter in the region. At the same time, they let and let half of Africa come here, to provide these lucky seekers with free care, room and board. It's pretty logical that anyone who comes here doesn't leave. The PVV is also surprised that, after a year, the Secretary of State has come up with a proposal to combat only one of the symptoms of its open border policy, all following an initiative law of the PVV to permanently abolish the periodic penalty payments. Better stealing than bad thinking, the Secretary of State must have thought while she sent this law to the Chamber. But it's something else for once. The Secretary of State actually seems to be doing something. That is quite a stark contrast with what the Secretary of State hasn't done in the past year. The borders are still wide open. Overburdeners still receive free shelter and care in expensive shelters and the Secretary of State still does not get nasty Moroccans out of the country. The PVV warns that this bill is only temporary in nature. We would therefore prefer the immediate and permanent abolition of the payment of periodic penalty payments to asylum seekers rather than only temporarily. Finally, it is of course too ridiculous for words that the VVD is again bent on left-wing drammers in the coalition when it comes to agreements that they have in their own coalition agreement. Please note: the PVV considers the coalition agreement to be a weak, worthless and even destructive agreement for the Netherlands, but even the only strict points in the area of asylum and migration are not being implemented. Think of the withdrawal of landing rights or the cessation of development aid, and more recently than again the refusal to restrict legal aid for asylum seekers. All wiped off the table to please D66 and the Christian Union. They just don't want to touch it. These tough proposals are therefore nothing more than a dead letter in the coalition agreement. Pure toughness on paper and just for the stage! Maintaining legal aid means that asylum seekers from the State Secretary simply have the opportunity to continue to sue together with asylum lawyers at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer. In this way, procedures are infinitely stretched, delayed and frustrated with the result that asylum seekers can stay in the Netherlands. Mr President, I will conclude. The PVV solution is very simple. Even if people do not want to hear it, I will repeat it: the borders must be closed to migrants, no more asylum applications in the Netherlands, only reception in their own region and unwanted foreigners directly back on the plane to the country of origin. If this had just been done, we would not have had all this whining about all these periodic penalty payments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, it is of the utmost importance that asylum matters be resolved as soon as possible within the time limits in force. No decision is bad for the asylum seeker who should not stay here, and no decision is also very bad for the refugee who may eventually stay here, but stays too long in uncertainty and does not deserve to be integrated. That is what we are actually seeing and then we are all shouting again: shame that this integration is so bad. But of course one is connected with the other. I hope that the Secretary of State will acknowledge this and that it is therefore in the interests of all of us that it should be properly regulated. The IND is now lagging behind, a result of cuts in staff combined with a slightly increased asylum influx. In this respect, I could therefore imagine that there is a temporary suspension of the penalty payment system, because the way in which it is going now is of no benefit to anyone either. If we go to the 100 million later, that is a shame, because that money can also be spent in another way, either on staff or on eliminating deficits. At the same time, I very much agree with Mr Van Ojik, who said: if you assume temporaryity, it must really be a temporary law. That is why we supported the amendment. I would therefore very much recommend that the Secretary of State should go along with this suggestion. After all, the Secretary of State must be able to submit proper legislation to us before 1 April next year. We have seen that legislation under pressure, compulsion and pressure can come about very quickly and also carefully. You can also choose to extend the law for a while. I would find that a possibility, but at least put a line behind it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider that ultimate possibility? If so, it will make it easier for my group to give a positive opinion. My second concern is that the right of appeal has been removed. Mr Van Ojik has explained very well why this is a problem. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider this. My final point, Mr President, is, after all, my concern that we do not actually have a stick behind the door anymore. Who really feels responsible when temporary permanent and permanent mines are reached? Then what are the instruments for ensuring that decisions are made after all? We had a very hard toolbox, and that didn't work either. Then what guarantees are there? Who is to be reckoned with and how can you reassure the Chamber on this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Let me just say straight away that the SGP welcomes the proposal to stop issuing periodic penalty payments to asylum seekers. The Secretary of State had to report to the Chamber at the end of last year that there were problems with the passage times of asylum cases and that millions of periodic penalty payments had to be paid. Then the SGP together with CDA and VVD filed a motion to investigate how we could put an end to that. In March of this year, it became clear that this amount increased by approximately 1 million weekly. It's a bizarre situation. That's not what the money's for. More than right, therefore, that the cabinet made a sensible decision: to stop the penalty circus. Mr. Chairman. For my group, the arguments for excluding asylum matters from the Penalty Act are clear. Fluctuations in the asylum flow give the work of the IND a special character compared to other public services. In the case of an implementation organisation which is so dependent on well-trained and specifically trained personnel in a given inflow, a sudden peak in that inflow or exceptional inflow composition can cause significant delays in a short time. This in turn can lead to numerous penalty payments and disproportionate financial burdens. Such a situation can again lead to perverse incentives. Asylum attorneys advised their clients to make massive use of this scheme, without this being helpful in speeding up decision-making, resulting in millions of euros being lost by the government. This is the shadow side of that penalty payment scheme, so we all know if you have a little contact with the field. Another risk is that asylum seekers in other Member States will get wind of the huge waiting times and quickly apply for asylum in the Netherlands to take advantage of this situation. I understand from the Secretary of State's report that there are no signs that this has happened now, but my question to the Secretary of State is whether this is true. Can she confirm this? Mr. Chairman. The SGP does not find it strange or unfair to exclude asylum matters from the Penalty and Appeals Act when deciding not to take a timely decision. Let's be clear. We are insisting that a government is extremely reliable and honest and that it adheres to fixed deadlines. This is crucial for a functioning rule of law. If that doesn't happen, the House of Representatives must be very close to the Secretary of State. I have a bit of a doubt as to exactly how I was going to formulate it, but at least we should follow the Secretary of State very closely, because this should simply take place in a legal, well-functioning society: you stick to the deadlines. However, this does not make abolishing the penalty payment system a violation of human rights, as it is suggested. There is no other EU state where a penalty payment scheme for asylum seekers is in force. Nor is there any European or international obligation to do so. I would also like to point out the criticism that has sounded since the entry into force of the Penalty Act. In 2012, however, the National Ombudsman suggested that the Penalty Law be abolished altogether. He felt that this law was not the right way for governments to react more quickly. The reason for the Ombudsman's appeal was the abuse of the penalty payment system on the basis of the Public Administration Act, the wobbling, which happened massively and which caused a huge burden on the municipalities. The municipalities couldn't manage that huge stream of WOB requests, had to pay millions of periodic penalty payments and therefore begged to exempt the WOB from the penalty payment scheme, because it had become a earning model for some who abused the scheme. If I may finish this point, Mr President, I see you looking. This also happened, as Minister Plasterk arranged in 2016 that the penalty payment scheme no longer applies to the WOB. So we have often made an exception to the scope of the Penalty Law in order to repair an unintentional effect of that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u34	I just had a question, right from the state's point of view. Does Mr Bishop agree that you should limit temporaryity, with a hard date, as proposed in the amendment, or at least by means of a suspension procedure, so that you cannot extend indefinitely? Because I really think that is a point of criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u35	I agree with my colleague Chicken. That is also my final question: when can we expect the final law? I'd like to see a follow-up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u36	Anyway, the proposal is now basically to extend it permanently. If there is no satisfactory answer, if the cabinet wishes to make a commitment or a hand-out, is Mr Bisschop prepared to support either Mr Ojink's amendment or to make some kind of extension amendment? Did I say something wrong, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u37	It's "Mr. Van Ojik."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u38	Oh, excuse me. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u39	I'm willing to think about that. I also attach great importance to care and to the rule of law. You should... you shouldn't leave a certain arbitrariness here as a government. So I'd like to think along with that. Whether this should be done by means of a horizontal clause, and with it over and out of.... or through a front or something like that, I would like to think along with that. I do think that something should be arranged on that point, but I would like to wait for the answer to my last question. Let me put it to you: when can we expect the final law? I won't be asking that question again, Mr President. It'll save us some time. Mr. Chairman. Even now we run into such an unintentional effect again and so we need to repair again. The periodic penalty payments are hanging around the IND like a load of lead and the organization is therefore almost flattened in terms of people and money. This harms the people for whom we really set up this whole asylum system. The improper use, the abuse that is being made, is damaging the position of those who clearly have the right to asylum. 'Cause they're the victims of that extended term. Mr. Chairman. The final law provides alternative incentives to encourage timely decision-making, as stated. Concrete question: is the Secretary of State prepared to see how other EU Member States do this? Apparently, they don't need penalty payments to stimulate timely decisions. The temporary law lacks the legal incentive to decide in good time. In the meantime, how does the Secretary of State encourage the IND to get the decision-making mines for the new cases since 1 April? The task force is clear and clear. We have talked about this in detail recently. Measures have been taken to eliminate backlogs and I would like to underline once again, also for the sake of the Acts, that the Secretary of State has clearly stated that by 2021, i.e. 1 January 2021, the backlogs have been eliminated. I have put that in my agenda, as you can see. How does the Secretary of State further encourage the achievement of the decision-makers of the new cases since 1 April? The next question concerns the report in which the Secretary of State stated that it was not able to determine the exact extent of the penalty payment to be paid at the moment and what would be saved by this legislative proposal. Is there any clarity about that by now? Because I can imagine that the Secretary of State is on top of this and wants to be informed from week to week about what we've earned. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, Mr Grothuizen has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr. Chairman. Then to the bill. D66 also sees that the current stimulus is beyond its goal. If the periodic penalty payments go up, but the IND simply can't make it work, that stick behind the door, which is indeed the penalty payment, doesn't lead to the desired result but to additional work and costs, without helping the people who it is, the asylum seekers. After all, they are not waiting for money, but for clarity in their procedure. The problems at the IND were mainly caused by an unwise choice to cut back on the IND in 2016. Due to the short-term financing linked to the influx that existed at the time, the IND was in fact always behind the facts. Took the inflow, then the IND scaled. Took it, the IND went along with it. The so-called harmonica model; I continue to be surprised. I am therefore pleased that at the time, with the CDA, Mrs Van Toorenburg, D66 was committed to additional funding for the IND and another funding system. Honestly, there was also a good motion by the SP, which was gawking in the form of Mr Van Dijk. GroenLinks also had a motion that, in my opinion, was Chamberwide, or almost Chamberwide, which also said that the funding system had to be different. So we have taken steps in additional resources for the IND and another financing model, but this did not immediately eliminate the delays. I therefore think it wise that in March of this year the Secretary of State decided to set up a task force to work on this enormous mountain deficit. The Secretary of State is ambitious. She wants these things cleared up in the short term. I do have some questions about that. What concrete results can the Secretary of State have at the moment? Is the Secretary of State's ambition still standing? Are we gonna make it, is her expectation? A second question is whether the Secretary of State can explain where the coverage for the periodic penalty payments that still have to be paid comes from. I've been watching that for a long time. Looks like a lot of it comes from its own reserves, but I'd like to get a confirmation of that. I won't beat around the bush. Despite the fact that D66 understands the temporary suspension, we are not enthusiastic about the permanent abolition of periodic penalty payments. Although there are examples of other procedures for which there are no periodic penalty payments, it does not feel very good. After all, it is the government that has failed here primarily. It is then a bit the reverse world to remove the sanction for that government failure altogether. But in a coalition it is giving and taking, and under the line D66 believes that maintaining free legal aid is a good step forward. The question then is how to keep an incentive to decide in time in the system. Several colleagues have raised this question, quite rightly, in my view. I read that the Secretary of State recognizes this point and wants to come up with something on it. Regular reporting helps, resurrecting the appeal against not deciding in time after one year is also a good step, but the Secretary of State also mentions a safety valve in the note following the report. I think that's an interesting thought, but it hasn't worked out yet. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to explain the safety valve. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mrs Kuik and then Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u43	Do not be afraid, I would like to say to Mr Grothuizen. I've been complaining enough today, so I'm not going to complain about a compromise, because sometimes that's how it works in a coalition. And there might be some logic to it, too. But I think one thing is right and that is Mr Van Ojink's amendment which you say at least... I am going to miss out again, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u44	It's "Van Ojik."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u45	Oh, well, sorry. I'm gonna listen to it on tape and do speech exercises. I get stuck in that a lot. Excuse me. Every person's lack. My question is serious. The amendment calls for a temporary period of time, so a hard deadline. Or perhaps a softer variant, which I also shared with Mr Bishop, to at least arrange a front, so that it cannot be extended indefinitely. My question to Mr Grothuizen is whether he feels that way. Or is he at least prepared to talk about this in the coalition, because it is very reasonable and just fits in with proper legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u46	I have just said that part of the agreement is that these periodic penalty payments are permanently abolished. So I think it's a sympathetic argument in itself, if you look into my heart, but it just doesn't fit in with the agreements we made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u47	That reasoning is not correct. Because you have a temporary law and a permanent law. If you have a temporary law, it should be temporary, too. I think there is a very reasonable request, not at all weird or unnecessary or frustrating. So I would like to ask sincerely: look at it with reasonable eyes and discuss it in the coalition too, because I believe that this will help, also for parties who are now in doubt about supporting this temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u48	That was more of a call. I always look reasonable, but I have also made clear to Mrs Kuik what the content of this agreement is. By the way, you kind of assume that this permanent law will then be endlessly delayed, but frankly that would surprise me. So I think that eventually this is a theoretical... Mrs. Kuik is calling me something, but I can't quite hear her, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u49	If Mr Grothuizen is so convinced that this permanent law is there in time, he can simply support the amendment that is there. So it's either one or the other. I think this is a very reasonable request. So, as a coalition, do not hide behind very tight agreements, but make sure that we settle things nicely in this house, just like we had a very reasonable and orderly debate of the week about the motorcycle gangs, on which we also made agreements with each other, even though we had different ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u50	That wasn't a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u51	It is a credit to Mr Grothuizen that he says that this was not his idea but that it was part of a compromise. The SP knows all about that. In a coalition you make compromises: sometimes you can give and sometimes you can take. But the alternative incentive is interesting. That's where we're still in the dark a little bit. Mr. Groothuizen rightly mentioned the safety valve, which Mrs. Becker also mentioned. I have also read somewhere that if the government does not take decisions in good time, read: the IND will then give you a permit after an x-period. Is that a imaginable alternative incentive for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u52	I don't know if that was the Secretary of State's idea. What I think she's saying is the next thing, and then I try to dig well in my memory. The note on the report says, in my opinion, that if that report shows that you see delays in a particular category of cases, it will see whether individual cases within that category can be accelerated. Maybe that's what she's talking about. Some sort of prioritisation system. I didn't put the question to the Secretary of State for nothing. I'm kind of attached to that stimulant. I also see, in concrete terms, that appeal against not taking a timely decision. Although that's not with a penalty payment on it, after a year you can go back to court and say, "Oh, judge, this is taking a long time." It always has an impact on a government organization when a judge says something like that. We have that reporting obligation, which also allows us as a Chamber to keep our finger on the pulse. And we've arranged a few things in the front. I think something else of an extra stimulus.. I keep recommended for good ideas... would be very good. But right now, I don't know what to think about. When someone was talking about international examples, I thought for a moment: perhaps we should not ask Greece. But that was a cynical thought of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u53	I also appreciate the fact that Mr Grothuizen says that we made that deal and there are certain things in it that are annoying for me, but 'a deal is a deal'. The problem with that is that it makes this debate a little lean. For there are four parties who say: we have agreed this with each other. It is not the cabinet that says something to them, but it is four representatives of four parties who say: do your best, make amendments, argue, prepare a story, and I may agree with you a little bit, but I am not going to do it. I would therefore like to ask Mr Grothuizen one more question. If he thinks that the amendment seeking temporaryity is a good amendment, I am also very curious to hear what the Secretary of State is going to say, he can say: listen, I lost that in the first instance, but I am quite willing to talk to everyone again and see if it might be... Even Mr Bishop thought it was a good point, and he cannot wait for that penalty payment to be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u54	Even Mr Bishop!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u55	He thought this was a good point; that's what he just said. Otherwise, the debate will be a little bit of a ritual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u56	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u57	I believe that Mr Van Ojik has made this point before, and I have also discussed it with him. I get his point. There may also be a slight frustration. I can imagine that, too. But I am also a little concerned that it is inherent in our political system and a subject on which the Chamber is seriously divided, that if the coalition comes to an agreement, that is the agreement. If we were to go all the way back to Scheveningen, countries and this country's political system could have been changed, we might not have done it this way. But I do think that is the result of how the system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u59	I do not think Mr Van Ojik agrees with me, but I think he does. By the way, if I look around this Chamber a little bit and see the broad majority that I think is there for the abolition of these periodic penalty payments, it is not always useful to start selecting very carefully when you stick to the coalition agreements or not. That can also cause a great deal of trouble, I say in the direction of Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u60	Oh, you were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u61	I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u62	I thought you'd have to go further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u63	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u64	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. This was the first term of office. I'm looking at the Secretary of State to see if she needs a brief ten-minute suspension. Fifteen minutes? That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u65	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank your Chamber for the fact that today I can talk to you about an important legislative proposal such as the Temporary Law suspending the rules on periodic penalty payments and appealing in case of failure to decide on an asylum application in good time. I very much appreciate your Chamber's desire to give priority to this proposal for a plenary session. With this proposal, I want to ensure that the IND is relieved of the obligation to reimburse periodic penalty payments as soon as possible if an asylum application is not decided in good time. Let me put it first... Wait a minute. I have to kill a fly. That may not be right, but it's a really filthy fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u67	I don't know if it's allowed by the Party for Animals. Is he gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u68	Yeah, he's gone. It was a really dirty fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u69	There's a thorough cleaning operation. I don't know how...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u70	Well, normally you can't do anything with a fly, but I could get this one. So yes... Excuse me. Mr. Chairman. With this proposal, I want to ensure that the IND is relieved of the obligation to reimburse periodic penalty payments as soon as possible if an asylum application is not decided in good time. Let me put it first: for as long as I am responsible for this portfolio, I have always stressed that it is of the utmost importance that the IND simply decides on requests in good time. Legally there is a lot to say about this, because that obligation is based on European law and we have to abide by it. However, I think it is at least as important that there are major personal and social interests involved in a timely decision. I think we will agree on this on both sides of the political spectrum. An asylum seeker must know where he is at as much as possible and as soon as possible. An applicant for protection should be able to start integration as soon as possible. That's good for that person, but it's certainly good for us as a society. On the other hand, it is very important that an asylum seeker who is not entitled to protection should be told as soon as possible that he must leave the country and that, if he does not, he can be forced to do so. Ensuring a quick decision is the best and most reasonable way to approach unpredicted asylum applications. So my goal has always been to bet on that timely decision. In the future, if your Chamber will accept this bill, it will certainly remain so. It has been discussed several times this evening: your Chamber has ensured that proper funding has been provided for the IND which makes this possible. I am grateful to your Chamber for that support. As you know, everything has been set in motion to ensure that the IND will be in order by the end of the year. I'll bet on that, and the task force will be very hard on that too. Mr. Chairman. However, I cannot, of course, close my eyes to reality. Recently, it has become clear that the penalty payment obligations have grown so that this has become a serious obstacle for the IND on the road to a future in which it is decided within the time limits, not only because of the disproportionate financial consequences, but also because of the commitment required by the IND's employees to go through these procedures. That is why I urgently put this bill into procedure. The aim is simple but of great importance: to make it possible for penalty payments in asylum matters to cease as soon as possible. As you know, the cabinet has now decided that the forfeiture of periodic penalty payments in foreign affairs will in any case be a thing of the past. A second bill, which will also be submitted to your Chamber in the short term, will provide a responsible way to settle this. It is precisely because of the different interests I mentioned above that the abolition of the periodic penalty payments is not enough. I am sure that we will discuss this in greater detail when we consider this proposal. It's still gonna take effect. I didn't want to wait for that. For now, I think it is of the utmost importance that this temporary law should first be brought to an end as soon as possible to the disproportionate consequences that the Penalty Act currently has for the IND. I shall now turn to your questions. First of all about this law, the temporary law. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked whether the law will remain in force until there is a permanent law: is it now for a year or longer? The temporary law shall expire one year after its entry into force. However, the temporary law will not expire if, within one year of the entry into force of the temporary law, a proposal of law on the permanent abolition of periodic penalty payments is submitted. The temporary act shall still lapse as (1) the proposal providing for a final settlement is withdrawn, or one of the two Chambers of the States-General decides not to adopt the proposal, or (2) the proposal providing for a final settlement is made law. Then the regime of the new, definitive law applies. Mr Van Dijk also asked: "Why does the government not choose to temporarily extend the decision-makers' mines, in accordance with Article 42 (4) and (5) of the Foreigner's Act? Because there is such a possibility." The decision-making process and the possibility of extending it are the result of the Procedural Directive. So this bill cannot change that. The relevant article of the Procedural Directive, implemented in Article 42, referred to by Mr Jasper van Dijk, offers opportunities to extend the six-month standard decision-making period under certain conditions. However, delays with the determining authority cannot be justified. Mr Jasper van Dijk also asked: because of the exceedances we do not comply with the directive. That's right. We are also doing everything we can to make this a thing of the past as soon as possible. We cannot do that by extending deadlines if European law does not allow it. Mr Jasper van Dijk said: once the periodic penalty payments have been abolished, the problems have not been solved and the Penalty Act ensures compliance with the European directive. He asked: do you share that opinion? I don't share that opinion. The delays show that the periodic penalty payments are not sufficient to reach a timely decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u71	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. You were in the process of answering Mr Jasper van Dijk's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u72	And now I come to Mrs. Chicken's questions. That's why I held my breath, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u73	Okay, that's good. Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u74	The extension of the decision-making period would therefore not be possible, as this would be contrary to the Procedural Directive. But the Secretary of State acknowledges that the deadlines are still not being met.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u75	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u76	After all, there are enormous delays. Then what is the penalty if you do not comply with the Procedural Directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u77	The Procedural Directive does not impose a penalty. But I think that's very important. She's more moral. We have European laws and regulations. I believe that as a Dutch state, we must abide by European laws and regulations, and even by laws and regulations. That's why. Yeah, we have to stick to the rules. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. That is why my commitment is also to ensure, as soon as possible with this temporary Penalty Act and with the Task Force, that we resolve the cases, so that I can say at the end of the year: the IND handles the requests within the deadlines set for them. That's my strong bet. That is why the task force has entered into force. All the cases prior to April this year are over 14,000 cases dealt with by the Task Force. It has special measures for this. Some of them have just been mentioned here. The applications submitted from 1 April have to and will be dealt with within the time limit laid down in the Procedural Directive, i.e. in principle within six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u78	In my view, the Secretary of State acknowledges that abolishing the periodic penalty payment will not do anything about the delays. That is much more in the intensification of the IND's approach. Then there is the question of the final term of this temporary law. Do you share the view that it would be fair to hold on to a date, to say: this temporary law expires on 1 April next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u79	I was just going to get that in answer to Mrs Kikkie's questions. Others have also asked questions about this, so if I may...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u80	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u81	The question has been asked whether I am prepared to put an end date in the bill. The government no longer considers the forfeiting of periodic penalty payments, even if the IND is in a position to decide on applications in good time, to be an appropriate means of ensuring a timely decision. A proposal will therefore also be put into procedure to ensure that in future no periodic penalty payments can be forfeited in all cases of aliens. The term of validity of the temporary act is intended to allow the parliamentary examination of the proposal for the final act to be completed without the return of the existing rules no longer required. That's how it's done. Therefore, no deadline has been mentioned, but there has been a clause on the period of temporaryity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u82	With all due respect for this answer: I know why the cabinet wants this, but with that you have actually made a temporary law a permanent law, because you do not commit to it an end date. So you can actually go on endlessly. That is not a proper way to legislate. You would then either have to set an end date as proposed in the amendment, or at least do a back-up procedure, which we also know, for example, in the method of covid legislation. That's neat. But now it's actually said: I'll give you a temporary law, but secretly it's a permanent law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u83	There is a lot of work being done to ensure that the permanent law is put together properly, and I will come back to talk about this later on, so that we can get incentives for the IND. I think it's important that there are incentives in a law. At the same time, it is important that we should be able to abolish these periodic penalty payments at the moment, and that if there is an interval between the temporary law and the permanent law, they should not be able to return immediately. If that period is fulfilled, as I have just said, or if the final law does not go through, the First or Second Chamber will not make it or he will make it, then at the same time it is possible to appeal to the Administrative Court. No periodic penalty payments shall then be forfeited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u84	This is a repetition of what has been said, of what has been explained and of what I can read in the legislation. There's nothing wrong with that. I also understand what the cabinet is trying to do. I'm just saying that by doing it this way, so without a hard end date or heavy front, you're actually creating a permanent law. I think that's a problem. I would therefore ask you in all kindness: either to make a hard deadline or at least to make a commitment to a heavy front, so that this does not go unbiased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u85	I understand Mrs. Chicken's question. It was put by others, too. But I do not agree with Mrs Kuik that it has gone through unbiased. The intention is that the permanent law should be submitted to your Chamber as soon as possible and that the transfer between one and the other would be hardly visible and therefore very short. It may be that there is just a month or six weeks difference and for that reason the proposal has been made as it has been done, so without a horizon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yeah, last question. Well, last, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u87	Sure, but that also makes it my last question for this debate. Again, I understand the purpose of the cabinet. But if you do it this way and if you are not able to do at least a heavy front, so that you don't prolong infinitely, but each time you check whether an extension is still necessary and whether the cabinet is actually rushing with a permanent law, you're actually putting the Chamber out of play. I do not think that is necessary, especially since the Secretary of State himself states that this permanent law is going to happen really quickly. If that is the case, my appeal would be: let the cabinet take itself seriously and either put an end date or a heavy front in it, so that the Chamber remains on the move and continues to put pressure on it to ensure that permanent legislation is in place. If the cabinet does not do so, at least I will consult with my colleagues to table an amendment on this matter together. I think that is only logical and reasonable, because this is just making a temporary law a permanent law and that is not a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u88	I understand what Mrs Kuik is saying, as I have just said. It is absolutely not my intention or the intention of the cabinet to sideline Parliament. That's a misunderstanding I want to take away. We do want the permanent law to be submitted to the Chamber as soon as possible. I am working hard on it so that there is really no difference between the temporary law and the permanent law, but that they overlap. However, there may be a period in between, and that is what we want to avoid. That's what I said. You can rest assured that there will be a strong commitment on the part of the cabinet. Then the law is offered to your Chamber and I hope that your Chamber will be able to deal with the law smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u89	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if it is true that what Mrs Kuik says is not entirely correct. She says there could be an infinite extension. I myself asked questions in the note on the report, namely whether in some cases a veil should be considered. How I understand it is that this law applies for a year and then expires, unless a bill has been tabled. Then it's up to the Chamber to deal with the bill. If the Chamber decides that it does not want to pass this temporary law to the limit, it is up to the Chamber to adopt or reject that permanent law. If that bill isn't there, this law will expire within a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u90	No, not from...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u91	I hear Mrs Kuik shouting from the audience that this is not the case, so I ask the Secretary of State. As I understand it, this law applies for a year, unless an alternative bill has been tabled for a final law. That is why there is a horizon clause in it, but it would lapse at the moment when the State Secretary submits a legislative proposal. I don't think you'll have to settle any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u92	As Mrs Becker says, it's right. I was hoping I'd explained it clearly. I had said that there are two possibilities: whether the permanent law is passed by the Chamber, whether it does not make it, is withdrawn or whatever; then it is also gone. It is exactly the situation as Mrs Becker describes. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u93	I see Mr Van Ojik, but I believe that there has been a sufficient exchange of views. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mrs Kuik also asked a question about removing the right of appeal against non-time decisions. Mr Van Ojik has explained why this is a problem and asked me to consider it. The government itself shares the opinion of the Council of State that it is undesirable that an administrative judge should not be able to stand up against the non-time decision by the IND. But at the moment there is an unusual situation that calls for unusual measures. Not only does the financial burden weigh heavily on the IND's budget, but it is at least as obstructive that IND staff, whose deployment is still less than they wish, are charged with handling the related procedures. That's a big burden. I would like to come to a point made by Mr Jasper van Dijk that I had just been sitting between two papers. If you'll excuse me. It was about discrimination. The then Minister Donner would have said that it is discrimination to derogate from periodic penalty payments only for foreigners. That question has indeed reached us and we have checked whether Minister Donner has said so. So far, we haven't been able to find out that he said that. In any case, perhaps Mr Jasper van Dijk can help me find the quote. We have not yet been able to find a communication on this subject in parliamentary history. I would like to stress that this bill excludes the penalty payment for a particular category of decisions where the penalty payment is demonstrably not achieving its purpose. It is not about excluding a particular category of foreigners. It concerns a certain category of decisions. If we wanted to exclude a particular category of foreigners, that would indeed be discriminatory. That's not the point. Mrs Becker asked whether, once the final law has been submitted to the Chamber in order to put an end to the periodic penalty payments, this temporary proposal will automatically go through. We just talked about that. Questions have been asked about the final law. Mrs Becker asked when the proposal for a final law would be submitted to the Chamber. My explicit aim is not only to present this bill in good time, but also to be able to enter into force quickly. I would therefore like to submit this proposal to your Chamber as soon as possible. The first concept will be consulted as soon as possible after the summer recess. So that's in the short term. I also want the proposal to include the best possible alternative to periodic penalty payments. There are major societal interests involved in making timely decisions. I've said that several times. The precise implementation requires further elaboration, and possibly also consultation with interested parties. But again, a first concept will be consulted as soon as possible after the summer recess. We do not think it is very correct to consult such an important legislative proposal in the middle of the summer, in August. A lot of people aren't there. I'd like to add that. That is why we do so as soon as possible after the summer recess. After consultation of the concept, the Section advises the Council of State. I will insist on vigorous treatment. I intend to submit the proposal to your Chamber at the beginning of November. Mrs Becker, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Jasper van Dijk have asked a question about the permanent law and the alternative incentive. What's that supposed to mean? They also asked for a periodic report, and the safety valve. In any case, it is intended to report periodically on the state of play in order to keep the IND constantly informed. How are we doing? Are you okay? That is a general instrument. This is important, but it cannot guarantee that decisions will ultimately be taken in an individual case if the decision period is exceeded. That is precisely what is important. The precise implementation requires further elaboration and possibly also consultation with interested parties. I must honestly say that, in order not to disturb that process too much, I do not want to get ahead of it too much. I have also been asked whether it is automatic that the judge will decide if there is a delay. The answer to that is no. Mr Bishop asked whether alternative incentives would be introduced into the final law. Apparently, no penalty payment system is needed to decide on time; what about other Member States? I'll definitely look into that. I think that's important. In the coming period, I will take stock of exactly how other Member States have directed this. One thing is clear: other Member States do not have periodic penalty payments. I will involve the result in the elaboration of my proposal. Several questions have been asked about the task force. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked what I am going to do to make things smooth and to make sure that people get a decision quickly. It is known that I have set up a task force with the IND. The scope of the task force's mission has been determined. The task force is tasked to complete the more than 14,000 cases until 1 April 2020. In the meantime, the task force has completed a small 2,000 cases. The button cut team is being decorated. This is made up of experts in asylum and legal matters and has to take a decision in complex cases. This team is expected to be ready by the end of this month. I just said that a "little" 2,000 cases are finished. This is, in itself, a special achievement, given the obstacles that naturally existed during the very strict corona period. The old Pieter Baan Centrum is now being set up for the task force in order to be able to work coronaproof. It's 130 workplaces. It is ready as of 1 July and is then phased into operation. 180 employees of the IND will be deployed for the task force. 40 employees of the DT&V will be deployed from mid-June onwards. The recruitment of 250 externals has started; the first 80 people have been hired and trained. New employees are hired every week. That is the situation at the moment. Then Mr Bisschop and Mrs Kuik asked how I would encourage the IND to get the decision-making mines for new cases in the meantime since 1 April. Based on an analysis by the Significant agency, a division was made between the deployment of the Task Force and the deployment of the IND's Asylum & Protection Directorate: 14,000 before 1 April and everything that comes in afterwards is for the IND and they must do so in six months. In short, there is a snipe. This means that the IND can concentrate on keeping track of and deciding on new asylum applications within the legal deadlines. I will inform your Chamber at regular intervals about its progress. Mrs Becker has asked how I am ensuring due diligence now that certain decisions are outsourced to legal agencies. The outsourcing to legal agencies is at the stage of the submission of a further tender request by the IND. The quality is an explicit part of that. The hearing is not outsourced. It is only the drafting of draft decisions that are subsequently agreed by the IND. A quality team will be set up at the IND to check the quality of the draft decisions. The decisions are also taken by the IND. The legal offices that carry out work do pre-work and carry out work, but the hearing is not outsourced and the decisions are up to the IND. Weekly consultations shall be held with the selected offices on production and quality. Then Mr Van Ojik asked if I have reason to believe that the IND is in order as of 1 April 2021. The IND has been instructed to deal with new cases within the legal deadline. They're very committed to that. I have just told the Chamber in my reply to Mrs Becker that your Chamber is also regularly reported on the production of the IND. I set up the task force, and that has to be resolved by the end of the year. If that is achieved, the IND can indeed be completely in order on 1 April. Of course, there is the condition that there will not suddenly be a huge peak, because then a lot of things will run differently. Experience has shown that the inflow cannot be predicted properly. I can tell you that the IND and COA are also trying to prepare themselves for the opening of borders. The borders between the Member States are now open, but when the external borders of the European Union are opened, we need to see what can be done, but we cannot predict it. There's a huge amount of work going on to make sure we've got as much order as we can to handle a peak when it gets there. Then Mr Van Ojik also asked whether the waiting times would be shorter. I understood in the note-taking meeting on 3 June that your Chamber would like to be well informed. I will. The results have been reported to you so far. I also promised to inform you of the state of play every two months, shortly after the summer recess, shortly before the budget debate and before the end of the year. So three times. However, I have to make the point that the suspension of asylum interviews due to the corona measures has resulted in a significant reduction in the production of the IND in recent months, but at the same time there has been a lower inflow. Calculations of the lead times are difficult to carry out. This makes it difficult to compare them and to see if the waiting times are already shorter at the moment. But as of 1 April, the order is to the IND: make sure that the procedure does not exceed the six-month period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u95	Have all the questions that have to do with this been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u96	No, I have more questions. I have another question from Mr Van Ojik. Maybe I'll answer that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u97	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr Van Ojik has asked another question about the measures I announced that I called 'unorthodox'. What are we supposed to think about? I've got a button-chopping team. There's an intelligent planning. That is what Mr Van Ojik himself has been talking about. Support actions shall be outsourced to legal agencies. I have just answered a question from Mrs Becker. In addition, however, the task force will recruit staff on a wide scale. This includes a call for former employees of the IND, the DT&V and also foreign affairs. It is also envisaged to hear in writing in cases where this can be done. In addition, flexible planning within the asylum procedure and a pragmatic approach have been developed. But one thing is paramount: the asylum seeker's rights must not be compromised. The final decision on an application will always be made by the IND. Perhaps I will have another question from Mr Van Ojik shortly, but not at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u99	That's good. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u100	We'll find out. My question is actually about the following. Last week, the Secretary of State answered the written questions in the round of questions following this law. At that time, she wrote: "I share the confidence that the IND will be able to leave the issue of lead times and periodic penalty payments from 2021 on the basis of the various measures already announced.' That was a week ago. That's when we knew all about the covid pandemic. Everything was known. That was a week ago. I have put two questions to the Secretary of State. One is: is that on schedule? The second one is actually much more important in relation to the law we're dealing with tonight. How is the abolition of periodic penalty payments and review procedures going to speed this up? Because that is why the Chamber, or at least a large part of it, is enthusiastic about this law. There will be more money for the IND and the officials of the IND will not have to deal with these brutal appeal procedures all the time. I wonder how much earlier than "initiation of 2021" the matter is in order at the IND. Because that's why we're treating this law here tonight. That is the essence of all the questions. I have asked many questions to the Secretary of State, but this is actually the essence of my speech. What do we achieve, except keep money in the bag...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u101	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u102	...with the abolition of these periodic penalty payments and review procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u103	I am glad that Mr Van Ojik is asking this question, because that is indeed an important question. In recent months, in March, April, May and also in part of June and so far, it has been very difficult because of corona to do the work. But I insist on the fact that we have to get those 14,000 cases I mentioned before by the end of the year. The abolition of periodic penalty payments is an enormous help in this respect, as the IND staff will not have to be used for these activities. We need all our employees and all our efforts to make sure that we can get rid of that huge amount of business. For the people involved, too, it is very unfortunate that they have had to wait and wait. But just as things have been, it is important that we should be able to abolish the periodic penalty payments so that energy does not go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u104	On 9 April, the Secretary of State sent a letter to the Chamber containing that long list of measures. I was aware of these measures, and indeed I mentioned them myself. On 19 June last week, she said: on the basis of these measures, I am confident that the case will be in order on 1 January. I'm just gonna say January 1st. It may also be January 10th. In addition, we are going to abolish the periodic penalty payments, so that more money is added to the IND, and we are going to relieve employees because they no longer have to deal with these appeal procedures. I have a simple question. I'm gonna have to vote for or against that law later. There's a downside to it. There are advantages to it. My simple question is: what are we going to gain in terms of faster procedures? That is the only basis on which I can say to my group: I would be in favour of it, because it is good for those asylum seekers because there are shorter procedures. Or I would be against it, because there is legal inequality, it is disproportionate or because it would be discriminatory. That is what Mr Donner said, at least according to Mr Jasper van Dijk. That's quite an important consideration. I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u105	I have probably been very unclear in my explanation to Mr Van Ojik. On March 15th, the intelligent lockdown began. Then nothing could happen. Everything stopped in those 14,000 cases, but also in the new cases. We know that the IND needs a lot of energy in order to conduct these penalty procedures. Now that the delay in March, April, May and part of June is indeed there, it is incredibly important that these periodic penalty payments are no longer there, because then the energy needed to carry out the procedures can be fully used for the ambition that I immediately expressed to ensure that we have the lead times at the end of December, at the end of this year, and that we have taken a decision in those 14,000 cases. So that's the profit. I also keep hearing Mr Van Ojik say that the IND is getting more money, because we do not have to pay those periodic penalty payments. Well, if the IND gets more money... at least that money doesn't have to be paid out of the state treasury. I agree. But we need to see how that goes. It's not like suddenly the IND is gonna have more money. Let me also tell you that, of course, the task force is not there for nothing either. There we have to work very hard with extra effort and so on. There is one thing we do not do: use the money that your Chamber has made available to the IND in a structural manner. That is the amount that was made available last spring, in 2019. That will not be used to pay the cost of the task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u106	Then maybe it's finalizing. That date of beginning in 2021 was already there, to put it simply. It was already in the letter of 9 April. The measures had already been announced. Last week, the Secretary of State repeated that date and said that, because of the measures we are already taking, I am confident that we will be back on track at the beginning of 2021. Now we are going to do additional things: abolish periodic penalty payments, abolish appeals. The question is whether this brings us to the intended objective. That could be an argument for me. Or are we still about on that same deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u107	The deadline I promised is at the end of this year and as much sooner as possible. I hope that abolishing the periodic penalty payments will help to bring it forward. I'd like to promise and say that we're doing so many more, but I can't. They're gonna bet on that. As much earlier as possible is of course the stakes. It is not the case that the idea is being worked on: we have mentioned that deadline and we are going to send it. No, if we can do it sooner, we'll do it sooner. In reply to Mrs Becker, I have just said that people are still being recruited to find people to make the extra effort. It is being worked hard, but it is not 100% in order either. But it is true that if what Mr Van Ojik is asking for can rather, we will, of course, try to do so. And for that, it can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u108	I can understand this reasoning of the Secretary of State very well, because there are many uncertain factors. You do not yet know exactly what the effect of abolishing the penalty payment system will be on the influx and new claims, which are very often unfairly made. It brought me to another point listening. That point is not strictly bound to this point, and perhaps you will come to it. That is the longer-term perspective. The problem of asylum is that it goes up and down. The problem of asylum is also that you need well-qualified staff to act efficiently. Now a task force is being set up, which hopefully will not be necessary for a large part, because that delay has been eliminated. Then what's gonna happen to that task force? Does the Secretary of State consider the possibility of making these people more operational internationally, for example by having them assisted somewhere at the external borders? Or does the Secretary of State intend to turn it into a quiet reserve that can be used in case of emergency? That goes beyond this bill, but I think it is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u109	I understand Mr Bishop's question. Is there going to be a task force that will suddenly have nothing more to do and, if so, what then? 180 employees of the IND are assigned to the task force and after the end of the task force they will simply be reassigned to the work to be done by the IND. In addition, 40 employees of the DT&V are deployed. And I think it is very special that the DT&V has said: we want to participate in this. But those DT&V employees are temporarily deployed to assist in the work of the task force. For the rest, a lot of temporary forces are attracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr. Bishop, a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u111	I believe that there is an important problem. If the task force meets its objective with this approach, a number of FTEs will be released for the IND. There will then be less workload, and fewer hours will therefore be needed to deal with matters. Furthermore, fewer temporary forces are needed. My main concern is that we solve it now and put things in order now, but that after that we actually let the accumulated expertise slip through our fingers like sand. I welcome that solution and I wholeheartedly support the Secretary of State's efforts, but in two years' time we will have another problem and we will have to set up a task force again. My question to the Secretary of State is: can she act that this is not the case and that that expertise is preserved in case the weather is necessary as a result of a peak?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u112	In any case, I can assure Mr Bishop that the expertise of the 180 employees of the IND who are now being lent to the task force is preserved. Those 40 employees of the DT&V have that expertise. They remain with the DT&V and therefore that expertise is retained. In reply to Mrs Becker, I believe that former IND staff are also being asked to cooperate and help solve those 14,000 cases. This capacity is temporary and will be reduced again, but the expertise required by those former employees is already present. The legal offices that are hired to provide supportive work... I agree with Mr Bishop that this is temporary, but these agencies are hired for their expertise. Those agencies must therefore carry out such activities with the expertise available to them. I think Mr Bishop's fear that there will soon be a club with a waterhead is what should we do? On the basis of the information provided by I also think he needs to see that the influx in the period March, April, May and June was rather limited and that there was therefore more room for manoeuvre at the IND. But we also have to count on the fact that there will soon be another ordinary influx, which can also increase when the borders are open again. So I think that the commitment of those who are now being used for the task force is not lost, for the reasons I have just mentioned to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u114	Then Mrs Becker of the VVD asked whether I could look at other possibilities for more efficient procedures in the Aliens Act with the IND. The task force looked at what short-term measures could be taken. I am prepared to see if there are any other measures that could be taken to speed up the procedures at the IND. This is, of course, something that will have an impact on the future, because the IND has the task of ensuring that we meet the requirements of the Procedural Directive. A number of other questions have then been asked. What is the result of abolishing the periodic penalty payments? Among other things, Mr Van Ojik asked that question. Well, it brings with it extra work for every employee. I have already given Mr Van Ojik a comprehensive answer to that question, so I think I have answered it sufficiently. Mr Bishop and Mrs Becker said that I mentioned in my report that I could not indicate the exact size of the periodic penalty payments to be paid and what is therefore being saved financially with this bill. Can I clarify this now? Because of the corona crisis, the asylum procedure has not only stopped for several months, but the courts have not been able to decide either. Therefore, the size is difficult to determine. There's a reservoir. You have probably discussed the somewhat difficult situation for the judiciary in this Chamber before, in order to recover the delays. There are delays, including in these procedures. In this respect, we cannot determine exactly, but at the moment some 45 million has already been paid, or at least that burden is already on the IND. The estimate for the corona crisis was another million a week. If these matters start to run again in the near future, that very large amount will come to us to a much greater extent. But at least you can count on 40 million already being spent. We owe it to him. That's pretty big, but there's more to it. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg asked the question how the money saved will be returned to the IND. I have just said something about this. The total financial coverage for the penalty payment was found within Article 37 of the JenV budget. The periodic penalty payments were paid out of the IND and COA own funds, the Nidos and COA account and the asylum reserve. The money saved is money that is not spent and benefits the entire migration chain. I've got a state of finance on that. Settlement of Nidos: 2.5 million. C.O.A.: 1.3 million. Own funds COA: nearly 23 million. Own funds IND: 26.5 million. Covering the penalty payment from the asylum reserves: 12.2 million. Then there's a total of 65.5 million. Mr Van Ojik has asked another question about the civil court and about the word 'imaginable' that I had used. I'm glad you just asked, what do you say, Secretary of State, you're going to interfere with the judiciary? Well, if there's anything far from me, that's it. And Mr Van Ojik knows that very well. There is one thing that is incredibly important in my legal existence and that is the separation of powers. It is far from me as Secretary of State to interfere with the way in which any judge deals with law. I am therefore very modest about this. And I'm glad you asked, because thanks to your comment, I was able to say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u115	Then you're in agreement. Isn't it? You want to say something about it, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u116	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The State Secretary does indeed use the argument that it considers it conceivable that the civil court would be very reluctant to grant periodic penalty payments. That is what this is all about, because that is what the civil court can do, as the Secretary of State knows. I was wondering what the Secretary of State is basing that on. I am convinced of her heart for the separation of powers in the rule of law; that is not the point. But on what basis does she base that civil judge's not gonna do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u117	Again, I do not go into that imaginability, for you have just heard me say what I think of the separation of powers. That's a really important thing for me. But it's just a fact that the judge in civil matters doesn't issue a penalty payment as soon as possible. That's all I can say. Otherwise, it's up to the judge. I do not wish to interfere in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u118	How far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u119	I'm almost through, Mr. Chairman. Ms Becker asked another question about the Syrian cases that were rapidly authorised in 2015 and 2016 and about their re-evaluation. In spring 2018, the IND started reviewing a large number of accepted Syrian asylum cases with the aim of re-assessing these cases on indications of possible war crimes and similar exclusion grounds, the 1F policy. That project has now almost been completed. I will soon report to your Chamber on this and I will try to do so before the recess. Then Mr Jasper van Dijk asked a question about a message in the NRC that CDA and VVD would want to get rid of the periodic penalty payments, but that legal aid would be retained in return. Is that right? I thought that Mr Groothuizen gave a very clear answer to that: that is indeed true. Then Mr Bishop had another question about the sucking effect, the risk of refugees getting wind of it elsewhere, which we then call the pull factor. There have been no signals so far; is that correct and can I confirm that? Indeed, we have still not received any signals or indications that the penalty payment is attractive to asylum seekers and provides a pull factor to the Netherlands, but I do not rule out the possibility of that happening. But right now, I have to be very honest about that. At the moment, it is not the case that there are tens or hundreds of additional asylum seekers coming to the Netherlands because they can receive money through periodic penalty payments. I would like to respond to the two amendments tabled by Mr Van Ojik, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u120	Two amendments, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u121	The first amendment is that of 1 April. I thought I'd been pretty clear on how the government looks at that. I must therefore discourage that amendment. The government no longer considers the forfeiting of periodic penalty payments, even if the IND is in a position to decide on applications in good time, to be an appropriate means of ensuring a timely decision. A horizon determination is therefore not desirable. I refer further to what I said earlier. Mr Van Ojik has tabled a further amendment to amend the law in order to maintain an appeal against non-decision in time before the administrative court. I should also advise against this amendment, because it is not only the financial burden that weighs heavily on the IND's budget, but it is at least so obstructive that IND staff are charged with handling the corresponding procedures. There are still fewer IND employees available than would be desirable, because there is still work to be done on this too. There's got to be more people. The question of the amendments, Mr President. That's the end of it. But again, I want to thank the Chamber for the commitment. I would also like to inform Mr Emiel van Dijk that we appreciate the findings of the PVV on the abolition of periodic penalty payments and that we are pleased to have made use of them. But the PVV's proposal did say that there was abuse. And I must honestly say that there has been no abuse of the possibility of claiming periodic penalty payments. The legal possibilities exist and that is why we come up with that Temporary Law suspension periodic penalty payments IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u122	The fact that there is a legal possibility to apply for a penalty payment does not, of course, mean that NGOs, asylum lawyers, Refugee Work Netherlands et cetera, etc. should actively be encouraged to use it as well. People come here and take advantage of the hospitality that we would like to see abolished, because it is not a party here. Not everyone should be allowed to come here. The people who come here and then take advantage of the law's ability to get money out of the government are not worth the nose and should scratch behind the ears whether they're at the right place here. That's just not style. You wouldn't do that if a country welcomed you. I find it unacceptable. In that sense, it is indeed to be described as an abuse of the penalty payment scheme. Just because it's legal doesn't mean it's not morally reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u123	That's not a question for me, I think, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more comment on Mr Donner's comments on Mr Jasper van Dijk's question, if I may, Mr President. For with thanks to Mr Jasper van Dijk, my officials found the statements made at the time by Minister Donner on possible discrimination. He said that exceptions should lie in the nature of the decision-making process, not in the fact that it concerns foreigners, because it has a discriminatory effect. The bill is in line with this, because this bill excludes a certain category of decisions, because the Penalty Law is not effective and even counterproductive. The reason for the exception is therefore not that these are foreigners, as I said earlier, but that they are a category of decisions for which the penalty payment does not work. I therefore see no discrimination. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u124	Yeah, well, then it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I see Mr Jasper van Dijk standing by. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will consider this bill. I can't tell you in advance what we're gonna do with it right now. It also depends very much on Mr Van Ojik's amendments, which we support. Perhaps we will leave our support of the law to the support of those amendments. So I'm just gonna give that to the Cabinet. The Secretary of State was the last to respond very nicely to Mr Donner. I did a little digging myself. It was indeed an intense debate in April and May of 2006. The debate was about an amendment by Mr Van Schijndel, then VVD member. Of that amendment, Mr Donner said that it contained discriminatory elements. That's what I understood in the short time I could look at it. That amendment was therefore dissuaded on those grounds and was not adopted at the time, otherwise we would not have had to stand here now. I just wanted to specify that. It was the Van Schijndel amendment, which would contain discriminatory elements and which concerned precisely what we are talking about, namely the abolition of the penalty payment for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u128	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. Mr Van Ojik has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions. The Secretary of State does not want to temporarily abolish the periodic penalty payments but permanently. I understand. That's why she's gonna send a bill to the Chamber to settle that. But using a temporary law for something you want permanently: that is exactly what I think this debate was about. That is why I tabled this amendment together with colleagues: if you call it a temporary law, then it is logical that you link it to a certain time limit and not to the question of when a particular law that we have not even received in this Parliament will be adopted or aligned. That's a very strange figure in this temporary law. With that amendment, my group is seeking to put an end to this strange figure. It is disappointing that the cabinet has no ears for that. Mr. Chairman. This debate has not convinced me of the added value of shortening the passage times of this law. I have also said that you have also heard that, as a group, we are quite prepared to look at this proposal to abolish these periodic penalty payments. You will understand that the question of what happens to the amendments is a very determining factor for my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u130	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Mrs Becker has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr President, thank you. Contrary to the previous speaker, I believe that the Secretary of State has convincingly indicated that this is really a temporary law, with a period of one year in principle, unless a final legislative proposal is submitted. We, as parliamentarians, then again have a move to determine when and how we are going to deal with it. But precisely the fact that this is a temporary law makes it so necessary for the VVD that there will be a final law as soon as possible. For I have also argued that, for us, the amendment we tabled at the time was intended not to grant periodic penalty payments for asylum seekers since 2006. So I thank the Secretary of State for saying that she wants to consult soon, after the summer recess, so that we can treat this as a Chamber at the beginning of November. I hope she actually wants to make that happen. I would also like to thank her for her answers on the re-evaluations and the careful procedure. I'm glad we got some clarity on those reviews before the summer recess. I just wanted to ask one last question. When can we expect information on its willingness to see whether there are measures possible in the policy to speed up the procedures at the IND? When can we expect that information? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, for the PVV it is important that the periodic penalty payments be abolished as soon as possible. Whether this succeeds with the government's proposal or with the PVV's initiative law, we do not care. The important thing is that we stop squandering millions of euros from citizens' hard-earned taxpayers' money as soon as possible. We, as PVV, will remain behind the government in order to ensure that this does not remain a temporary law, but that it is effectively permanently abolished. And if not, there's always the better PVV bill that we can use as a stick behind the door to hold the government to it. That's, like, some kind of positive incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u134	I call Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Let me thank the Secretary of State for a very good answer to the questions. Thank you for that. We had prepared one motion from our group. This concerned the need to look around the other EU Member States on how instruments are being used to ensure timely handling of procedures as much as possible. On that question to the Secretary of State, a generous commitment has been made, without reservation. I assume that will be involved in the impact of the bill. That gives us such confidence that we do not need to table that motion. But I do appreciate thanking the Secretary of State, so here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then we have reached the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. It is also remarkable that no motions were tabled. That's real progress. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members, also for their contribution in second term. Frankly, I have only heard a question from Mrs Becker. It would like information on possible measures to speed up procedures. I'll do my best to get that done as soon as possible. That will certainly be a matter of urgency, but I think that is a matter of late for the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u138	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you. Two minutes past 11:00, I really like that. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-7.u141	We will vote on the bill and the two amendments next Tuesday. Of course, I would also like to thank the messengers, the clerks, the Stenographic Service and the people who have been watching.
