ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	The matter now is the Temporary Law Tweede Kamerelection covid-19, Kamerstuk 35654. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and also the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Democracy is one of the greatest achievements you can have in a normally functioning society. Even in these exceptional times, therefore, we must do everything we can to ensure that votes, which is essential for democracy, are carried out properly. It is particularly important that people vote, but also that they do so safely. That is why I am pleased that the cabinet has taken steps to shape this process. Post-voting: it is not ideal and has not been introduced in the past for nothing, but I think that is not insurmountable under these exceptional circumstances. Early votes: the cabinet was not immediately enthusiastic, but I am glad that the cabinet has adopted a D66 proposal and the Labour Party to make it possible to do so in a number of places, so that there can be a split vote and, above all, that there can be a vote. The same applies to powers of attorney, so that people who do not want to vote themselves can do so. We've had a written round. The Minister has given a rather detailed answer to the questions we have asked. However, I would like to ask a number of questions again, or ask them more specifically. I think that is important because there have been justified questions. Firstly, on the voting of letters. There is an explicit desire to allow people who are vulnerable but not already 70-plus to vote. The Minister says: that is actually impossible, because we have no applications for it. This also applies to those who claim to belong to that vulnerable group, also because it is potentially a 2.4 million group, I say by heart, people who are 70-plus. However, there are explicit letters from older people's associations, but also from Each one, for example, to make this possible. Has it also been considered to grant access to an even more specific group, a group of people we may already know already that they belong to that category? Since it is so important, I would like to ask the Minister once again to respond or to look at the possibilities we are still seeing. Mr. Chairman. Early voting brings with it a number of challenges and a number of concerns. It's also about exitpolls: what effect do they have? I think it would be good for the plenary and public debate to share these concerns, and to look again at how the Minister looks at this and at the discussions she has had with parties that normally carry out exit polls around elections. I think that's important. A third point is that voting is not possible without sufficient voting rooms and without sufficient volunteers. Let's talk about the polling stations first. Amsterdam is already busy to see where they can set up polling stations. This will also apply to other municipalities. For example, they have explicitly called for this to be done in schools, but they are now running into a bit of a contradiction with the covid measures. The Minister must have seen this letter, too. I would like a response on how we do not ignore this, so that we can vote at as many locations as possible. Then about the issue of volunteers. I like to grumbling occasionally, but I really like the fact that there is already an active campaign to recruit as many volunteers as possible. Do we have a visual on the number of people who signed up? Isn't it wise to keep us a little informed about that? Perhaps we can do some more work in that, if necessary, although I understand that I have a modest role to play. I really liked the message this morning that MBO students are also going to actively help in the democratic process. It makes me happy, and I hope that will lead to enough volunteers. Perhaps it is also a good way to become actively involved in our democracy at a somewhat younger age. That's the thing about the volunteers. I hope that's gonna work. My final question on this is whether the Minister and her fellow ministers in the cabinet will actively call on all their own officials, because if each department recruits one volunteer, we will be a long way from meeting that. Democracy is the most important good we have. There is therefore a great deal to be done if it is not to continue. However, I think it is my duty and also a necessity to discuss the scenario that we remain in a heavy lockdown. Can the process then be designed in the same way as we now have in mind and, if so, how? Are additional measures needed? Mr. Chairman. I must have forgotten a question, but it will come by interruption or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. These are special times. For nine months, the coronavirus has had an effect on our lives. We still don't know how long this is gonna take. Unfortunately, even after the start of the mass vaccination, the virus will still be among us. But life goes on and the Lower House elections are already on March 17th. So we're still in the middle of corona time. The right to vote, the right to vote, is fundamental to a democratic rule of law. Everyone must be allowed to vote. In this way, everyone can take part in the decision on how our country is governed. But the voting must be done safely. The voting process should not endanger their health for older and vulnerable voters. It is important that the electoral process is and remains reliable and legitimate. This means, as far as the DENK Group is concerned, that a turnout similar to the Lower House elections of four years ago should be sought. I'm thinking of a turnout of over 80%. Four years ago, it was 81.9%. Is that how the Minister sees it? Will she do anything to keep up the turnout? The corona virus must not prejudice the electoral process. The DENK Group therefore supports the government taking a number of steps to promote turnout. This is important, because some of the population may not go to the polling station for fear of the virus, and that is not possible. However, it is important that this group is also heard. My group has a number of questions about how this law will work in practice. The age at which a person can vote by letter is 70 years. A lot of people ask why that's 70. Why isn't it 65 or 75? Why do we come up with an age limit and not look at the vulnerable groups? That's a question they just asked. Is it true that 2.4 million people can vote by mail? Is it true that each municipality itself decides how many post-voting offices it will set up? Are a few post-voting offices in Amsterdam and Rotterdam enough? The difference between voting via a ballot box and voting via a mailbox is that the voter can no longer see what happens to his ballot after it is done in the mailbox. The mailman is responsible for the safe transport of the ballots to the post office. Unfortunately, there are regular reports in the media about letters and mail items that are missing. How is the Minister going to ensure that no ballots are lost during the postal service? What is striking is that Article 11c lays down that the transport, storage and transfer of letter votes still have to be worked out and put into a ministerial arrangement. When will this ministerial arrangement take place and how will the Chamber be involved? Can the Minister arrange for every return envelope to have a tracking-and-tracing code? If you order something these days, you know exactly where the product is. Then how come you don't know about your important voice? What if, out of the 2.4 million votes, 500,000 votes don't end up? Then the PVV who is looking for a reason to stir up the discussion can say that there are 500,000 votes missing and that the elections are therefore not valid. Shouldn't we be avoiding this sort of thing? Shouldn't we study all things in advance so that the election results are legitimate and legal for everyone? It can't be that the voter doesn't know whether or not his vote turned out okay. I am therefore also considering a motion on this point. Another question from my group is whether letter votes can also be given by proxy. How does that work? Normally, you can bring three powers of attorney. Can people with letter votes also put three powers of attorney in the same letter? And how does it all go? Mr. Chairman. In addition, you have to sign by letter votes yourself. If you go to a polling station, you don't have to sign. If people forget to sign, is the voice invalid? Mr. Chairman. Is it true that a letter vote from seven days before the elections can also be taken personally to an issue point, as stated in Article 11d? What does a delivery point look like? Is this a letter-voting office or a special ballot box? Or is this, like, at City Hall? How long can a letter vote be submitted in advance? What happens if someone at home doesn't receive a letter at all, or if someone else has taken his letter? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of early voting. The Minister has rightly made it possible to vote for three days. Of us people could have voted Friday, Saturday and Sunday, but unfortunately, it became Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. But it's an extension. This reduces the risk of contagion with the corona virus. Article 2g provides that the municipality can determine the number of early polling stations, with a certain minimum per municipality. For municipalities between 100,000 and 350,000 voters, these are at least 10 early polling stations. For municipalities with more than 350,000 voters, these are at least 20 early polling stations. Is that enough in Amsterdam and Rotterdam? However, I would ask the Minister to set up more polling stations in the major cities in order to keep the traffic flows and thus the virus away. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the point of exitpolls. There may be exit polls on Monday. That could have an impact on the election results. Usually the media makes sure that there is a race between two parties. In 2012 the race went between the VVD and the PvdA. Then a lot of people who would vote for the CDA and the SP voted for the PvdA and the VVD. That was the strategic vote. On the whole exit poll story, I would therefore like to ask the Minister to talk to the media and, where necessary, to take action so that we do not get a strategic vote race and people vote for a different party than they would have wanted to vote for. At that point, I have a motion in preparation. Article 4a allows mobile polling stations, which can be set up by municipalities in order to be able to vote early. Can letters be issued there too? How many of these mobile polling stations are expected to arrive? This is particularly important in large cities. Are these mobile polling stations also coming to places where vulnerable citizens live, so that they do not have to travel for long? Finally, Mr President. Has the Minister considered making online voting possible, for example via the DigiD? A lot of things are dealt with through the DigiD these days. Then why shouldn't you be experimenting with the DigiD in these times, for vulnerable people who can't get out of the house? Has the Minister considered this and has she investigated it? Of course, there are risks. I ask the Minister to go into this in detail. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the letter from Amsterdam. I ask the Minister to talk to the Minister for Education about giving room in schools so that more polling stations can be set up. Finally, I would like to mention the recruitment of voters. A lot of young people could be members of the polling bureau. We must give them the opportunity to do so. We may also need to increase the remuneration of members of the polls, because we need a lot of members of the polls. I think the campaign may be bigger than the current campaign on Facebook and a few more places. With a larger campaign, we could involve even more young people in our democracy. Young people can support us at this difficult time. I am also considering tabling a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr Öztürk. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona measures are affecting all of us. They also have an impact on many vital processes in our country, as well as on democracy. Since this week the lockdown has entered, we as a Chamber also meet in scaled form. We all know that no matter how big the crisis in our country is, democracy must continue. This means that the necessary debates in this House must continue. The same applies to the necessary debates of local leaders and representatives of the people in the country. We need to be able to continue working, albeit in adapted form. That is what the citizens rightly expect from us. Democracy also means that voters can make their voices heard. It is one of our achievements. Voting rights are an important right of citizens. On 17 March the Dutch Parliament elections are scheduled. Unfortunately, there is a very high chance that restrictive measures will still apply. But democracy is one of our most important assets. This also means that the elections must be able to continue and that all voters must be able to vote safely. Safe in the sense that the corona proof must be done, that voting secrecy is guaranteed and that the electorate's will will be reflected in the result. Mr. Chairman. The Minister, also at the request of the Chamber, has come up with a legislative proposal to organise the elections in such a way that everyone can vote as well as possible. Broadly speaking, GroenLinks can agree to the proposals made by the Minister. However, there are still a few points on which my group has questions. First of all, the fact that it should be possible for people aged 70 and over to be able to vote by letter. My group has some difficulty with this. After all, there are also voters who are under the age of 70 but who belong to a vulnerable group. Why should they not make use of this possibility? We also asked questions about this in the written round, but the answers are not yet convincing. That is why I ask the Minister to explain this properly once again. On this point, the Election Council has also expressed its concerns. The Election Board wonders whether enough is being done to prevent fraud with letter votes. Can the Minister go into that again? Can she promise that extra attention will be paid to the detection of vote fraud by letter votes? Mr. Chairman. Then the possibility for, in good Dutch, early voting. If this law is adopted, people may also be able to vote in a limited number of voting rooms per municipality on Monday and Tuesday. Under these circumstances, this is an understandable proposal. The Chamber has also expressed its views on this matter before. With regard to GroenLinks, it is very important that the elections are not influenced in the meantime. That's a risk there is. If people vote on Monday or Tuesday, the election campaign is still in full swing. Some of the people can still take into account all the information from the last campaign days in their voices. It is therefore very important that during the last few days, while the vote has already been opened, there should be no polls or exit polls that can affect voters. The Minister shares this point of departure, but will only talk to the leaders. We wonder if this is enough. The agreements must not be non-binding. We also wonder whether there is a need for a legal ban, as in some other countries. I am therefore curious to hear the Minister's response to Mr Van Raak's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	Hey, what the hell? Will GroenLinks, the former Communist Party of the Netherlands, propose not to publish polls in the last days before the elections? In a mature democracy, that's just information you need to be able to get, right? That's just a fundamental human right, isn't it? Why is GroenLinks again opposed to the right to information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	No, of course it is a right to poll, but under these circumstances people can also vote on Mondays and Tuesdays. If the results of these votes are announced in the meantime, while the campaign is still going on, this may lead to influence. It would be better if the polling stations took this into account. That's actually what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	We shouldn't go to a situation where the government is going to ban it. In France, which is always posh, you have to keep an eye on the newspaper in Geneva the last few days before the elections, because it will publish that information. I assume that GroenLinks is opposed to banning opinion pollers from bringing out that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	Sure. If you put it that way, that would be a distortion of my words. I am curious to see how we can ensure that proper polls are carried out in these circumstances too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr GroenLinks says that the Minister's talks with opinion pollers should not be non-binding. Mrs Özütok says literally: not without obligation. Then I think that means that there must be some pressure on those leaders, on the Maurice the Dogs of this world. Surely it is not up to a Minister of the Interior to influence independent polling agencies, to put the knife to the throat and say: do not publish? That's not up to a Home Secretary, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	Come on. There's no knife to the throat anywhere. Those polls are all professional people. They also know very well that we are holding elections in these special circumstances. I therefore assume that they will take this into account. The point is that they can consciously make agreements with the Minister. I would like to give room to the Minister so that there are agreements in which the polls indicate that, in these circumstances, they take account of the situation in which votes are cast not only on one day, but also on Mondays and Tuesdays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	It is good that GroenLinks also raises this point, because it is a special situation that we are going to vote on Monday and Tuesday. That's actually the first time in our history. We must therefore also anticipate the consequences in advance. I understand the PVV doesn't want that. Only, is GroenLinks prepared, if the minister has made agreements that do not go far enough, to call on the mayors to ask for exit polls with a municipal regulation to leave the people at the polling stations alone and not to ask what they voted for? Will GroenLinks go this far, to make sure we don't get exit polls on Monday and Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u15	I would first like to await the Minister's answers on this point and to hear the Minister's views on the possibilities she sees in connection with these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u16	That is such an answer that I usually hear from the coalition: I have spoken with the PA in advance, but I will wait and see how the Minister responds. However, you are in the opposition and belong to a party which should have its own opinion, without the Minister's reply. Mrs Özütok, you are experienced enough. You've been alderman and there's a lot of local experience. Hence my question as to whether the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is prepared to take an even further step, to see how we can ensure that there is no race through the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u17	That there shouldn't be a race between the media, I can imagine. I want to think about that. We still have a second term. Then I can come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u18	Let me ask you a question, because this is an appropriate point. I hear Mrs Özütok say something that Mr Bosma also points the finger at, namely that they should not be non-binding talks. There's the crux. Does Mrs Özütok implicitly refer to a ban on publishing the results of opinion polls during that early voting if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u19	There is still a wide range of possibilities between "non-binding" and "ban." I will try to prevent a ban at all times. I do want fixed agreements in which a piece of commitment can also be made or agreements can be made. I would be in favour of that, not a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u20	But it's interesting for opinion pollers to publish. Suppose they are not prepared to agree, what does the expression "it should not be voluntary" mean? What if there is no willingness to reach a gentlemen's agreement? Is there room for those opinion polls, or should further action be taken along the lines of Mr Van Raak's amendment, which I have some sympathy for? Where is the border of GroenLinks? That's what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u21	I think I have already made it clear that the border is that there is no ban. It shouldn't be cozy, non-committal conversations. That's what I'm talking about. It also requires the leaders to assume their responsibilities. That's what I'm looking for. I would like to hear from the Minister how these talks are going, and whether the opinion pollers recognise this situation and want to participate in it. That's all I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u22	In conclusion, Mr President. Yeah, they have to take responsibility, but what if they don't? 'Cause that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u23	I'm assuming they will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u24	Yes, but you also know the world a little better. Their taking responsibility is a pious wish. Not everyone does that all the time. What measures do you, as a government, want to take to prevent non-committality? That's what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have the expertise and professionalism of the opinion pollers really high. I'm assuming they're gonna take their responsibilities. That's how I know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. The Minister writes that it is intended that voters should spread as widely as possible throughout the voting process, i.e. from Monday morning to Wednesday morning, in order to avoid crowds. I couldn't agree more. However, nowhere do we read exactly how this process is stimulated or regulated. Can the Minister elaborate on this? Finally, Mr President, two other points. First of all, can the Minister tell us about the number of polling stations and polling stations available? Are there sufficient locations available in all municipalities and do municipalities have sufficient resources and human resources available? Secondly, I would like the Minister to give me the undertaking that counting and fixing will be as transparent and accessible as possible. Voters must have the ability to watch the counting happen. They should also be able to be present when the results are determined by the polling stations and the central polling station. (NL) Mr President, all in all. Especially now that much more digital exchange is taking place, it is very important that all information and results can be found online in good time. The experience of the last elections tells us that some municipalities do not publish the results in a findable place on their website in good time, that for example the process-verbals and the number of votes on persons are only available in the city hall and that sometimes no photos can be taken of them. This time it really needs to be as timely and transparent as possible. I would very much like to have the Minister's commitment to remind all the municipalities of this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are special times and it is therefore a special election in times of corona, of COVID-19. That forces us to look again at our system of elections. We've already had a meeting on that. We have already had a first legislative proposal, but unfortunately I have to come back to what I proposed in that debate with regard to testing the members of the polling station. Then it turned out that a second wave was still far away, but now we are in that second wave. That has taught us that it is difficult to predict the future of what it will be like on 17 March. One thing we know for sure: the amount of vaccinations that will be available will not be enough to give vaccination to all members of the polling station, because they do not belong to those who need priority. In this respect, we must look carefully and I repeat the plea that I made at that time in the case of motion and amendment, namely to look closely at a health check. In the meantime, the rapid tests are used on a very large scale, also in the regular test system, to have a first check for infection. Hence a repeat of the plea to at least ensure that the members of the polling station are not infected and that a simple self-statement that you do not suffer from a nose cold or something like that is not enough. In this respect, there is also a link with the existing number of 70-plussers already present at the polling station. Many polling stations mainly run on people of a somewhat older age. I don't know if you should call them vulnerable by definition. I also belong to the category that is vulnerable on the basis of calendar age, but that is not how many people look at themselves. I'm not. At the same time, there are also people who are vulnerable but do not belong to that age group. Firstly, I would like to say that we must be very concerned about the humanisation of the polling station. There must be a lot of new people because there are many more polling stations opening up. There is a need for some knowledge of how things are normal. This is urgently needed. It's wonderful that MBO students will help count the votes, but manning a polling station is something other than counting the votes. Hence the question that has been raised before and which, of course, we are all struggling with: can you not also give other vulnerable people the possibility of not having to go to the polling station? In that respect, I would like to ask the following question. I understand that the arguments of the Election Council to invite people do not go for 70-plussers, because there are far too many. But should it not be possible for the other group of vulnerable people to apply for a letter vote? That's about fewer people, that's our idea, and that makes it easier. Because even early voting doesn't really provide that opportunity. It does lead to a spread, but the question is whether the really vulnerable people go to that one polling station in the constituency where they can vote, because what does mean they have to travel? You should make it a little easier. We are, of course, here with a number of political junkies, all of whom have also looked at the voting in the United States, although I understand that Mr Van der Molen spent his night's sleep on something else. It is clear that it is a complicated process, but we have always been in favour of early voting and letter voting. That early voting still raises our question about counting the votes. Counting the votes of the first two days starts at 7.30 p.m. on that day, I understand. The counting of votes is a public matter. Everyone has access to it. There was a lot of discussion about that just now. I am not going to repeat it, but I am very much in favour of Mr Van Raak's amendment on opinion polls. And I must say that we are also concerned that counting the votes of Monday and Tuesday leads to previous information. We would therefore like to have the same confidentiality as for opinion polls. They can't come out until the ballot boxes are really closed. And as for the polls: well, the sewing circles with the debate watchers will always look at polls the night before the elections. But this is about actually voting. Finally, Mr President, we have a number of questions on how to proceed with the vote on the letter. We understand that there is a system with two envelopes, so that it becomes clear that the letter has arrived, but it remains a somewhat fragile process. Everything that goes with the mail has no guarantee that it really arrives. And then it doesn't matter whether it's in a congregation or not. My group colleagues always get the stuff that was sent in The Hague much earlier than I do, while I live in The Hague. Don't ask me how, but there's always a weekend in between. This also says something about the way in which the post establishes its system of handling the mail. We would like similar agreements to those made with the mourning cards. But even then, we don't have the guarantee that it's going well. So I would like to hear from the Minister in more detail what she can say about that whole, and whether the shipping theory could be waterproof here too, so that the voices that have been cast on the last day that it is possible to vote can also be included. Mr President, those were my comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Then we'll wait. I call Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u31	We have an audience outside, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yes, it is. Probably the last demonstration this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u33	They're scanning "faster, faster," aren't they? I'll try to hurry! Mr. Chairman. Don't ask what democracy can do for you, but ask yourself what you can do for democracy, I say to paraphrase the other JFK. It seems that a lot of people have asked themselves exactly that question: city leaders, pensioners and students. In the first few days, 20,000 volunteers came in and this morning there was the wonderful news, Mrs. Kuik mentioned that thousands of MBO students are also going to help organise the elections. That is also necessary, because this time the celebration of democracy lasts no less than a week. It is celebrated at over 9,000 locations and should become the largest coronaproof event in the Netherlands. Two months ago, the Chamber already dealt with the first amending law to organise these elections corona-safely. Then it was about the hygiene rules and the safe distance standard. I think it is a good thing that we did so as a matter of urgency, because the evaluation of the reclassification elections also provides useful insights into how the Lower House elections can be organised. The elections in November went well. However, a number of improvement points have emerged, such as more compelling walking routes and the fact that counting the voices and keeping 1.5 meters away was sometimes difficult. That gets even more complicated with those big ballots. In the debate we had on it, there were two main objectives for all the speakers. A rare consensus of this Chamber: the elections must continue if possible and the turnout must be as high as possible. In order to achieve this last objective, a very large majority of the Chamber had two requests: to allow early votes and to allow for letter votes. The government, together with the municipalities, made every effort to make these wishes possible. With this accumulation of new electoral measures, municipalities are literally and figuratively faced with an unprecedented task. Think of recruiting extra people, finding more and safe polling stations, keeping polling stations open longer and longer people, extra security, extra storage, larger orders from printing companies and so on. In this respect, the note following the report and the technical briefings we have had was an interesting process. It made very physical tangible, at least for me, what complexity that beautiful, kind of cerebral ideal of democracy comes from. This extends to the different folding methods of the ballots, the letter ballots and the limited folding capacity. I'd never heard of that before. It is a good thing that after the 30 million previously promised for municipalities to organise this, the government has allocated 22 million, because money should not be a problem for the municipalities in organising this mega operation. The Minister writes that she has no signals that this would be a bottleneck. I did get it. I think that municipalities are now mainly working to do everything in their power to arrange and organise it. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to discuss again with the municipalities after the elections whether they have actually been compensated for costs. Mr. Chairman. Then the early vote. At the initiative of the PvdA and D66, the polling stations are open for the first time several days earlier. The law states the minimum number of polling stations to be open. My question to the Minister is whether all the municipalities can achieve that minimum. At the same time, a minimum is exactly what it is, namely a minimum. I think that's better. In any case, I see in many municipalities that they are well above that minimum. At the same time, they also have problems finding sufficient voting rooms. It has already been said that the corona measures have additional problems for schools. My question to the Minister is what the findings of the support team have been voting rooms so far. It is good to hear that both public and private institutions are helping. That runs from the Union of Water Councils, which sit in beautiful locations, to SMEs and VNO, who want to help. But how are the schools? Of course, they already have too much to eat with the current lockdown. Just announcing an extra day of study from above is not an attractive perspective either. So my question is how this consultation with her fellow minister is going on. So I read that the recruitment of voters is going better than expected. At the same time, the redistribution elections learn that there is also a breakdown and that there will be about 10% additional recruitment. Is this good news true? I would like to hear whether the Minister shares that assessment of reserve capacity. I think it would be good if we could hear from the Minister again at the beginning of February about the latest state of preparation. Mrs. Kuik hinted at this, too. Then we can ring the bell together as a Chamber once again if we think it is not going in the right direction, even though I do not have a single signal for that at the moment. Then vote in writing, Mr. Chairman. Under normal circumstances, we are rather reluctant to vote for the letter, because the secret of voting is only moderately protected. That's best secured in the voting booth. However, this time it will have to help people with poor health. If this was a fairy tale world and there was a magic wand in trade-K that allowed the Minister to ensure that anyone with poor health could vote by letter on request, then I would immediately sign for it. Unfortunately, however, I mentioned that physical reality as we live in the real world, in which a complex balance has to be made between feasibility, security, voting secrecy, turnout and, not insignificantly, the fact that there must be a legal basis for how these elections are organised. I am then convinced that this is the best balance to ensure that that genericly vulnerable group of 70-plussers, even though it is..... I see Mr. Van Otterloo standing there.. not everyone above 70 per se equally vulnerable... yet it is an objectivable ground and thus it meets the need to make that exception. At the same time, the necessary safeguards are needed for this letter vote, such as the dedicated process, which PostNL is working on, and also the audit they are having done on that process, to which I think Mr Öztürk rightly referred. It would be good to get that on the latest state of affairs of the Minister, because there must be confidence in the integrity of this process. Mr. Chairman. Finally, four very brief points. The law creates a power to suspend the count. Municipalities have asked in the preliminary route whether the polling stations can close two hours earlier. I didn't think that was a good idea. I'm glad the Minister didn't choose that either. I would ask her to confirm that voting time is not cut short unnecessarily in order to avoid this suspension. Then there's the central vote. This experiment is still ongoing. My question to the Minister is what exactly is the status of this experiment. It was agreed before and it is now going through this process. How many municipalities are involved in this? And after that, when will this be made law? We saw in the American elections that foreign election observers were also present. The discussions I had with the OSCE in previous elections also showed that it is very useful to look at how we organise the elections with strange eyes. That is also how we control ourselves in this respect. So my question to the Minister is: have foreign election observers already signed up? Have they been invited, if necessary? This is, of course, a forced experiment, with a number of new measures. My question to the Minister is: when can we get the evaluation of these elections? If there were municipal elections after the March elections in the following year, I think it would be a good idea to involve the lessons. Then perhaps we can come to a new legislative proposal in a more calmer contemplation. Then hopefully we can also decide to allow for a little more early votes and a little less power of attorney. But let us wait for the evaluation. Furthermore, I look forward to the operation "every voice counts and counts every vote." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I see a young guy standing there, in the opening. Welcome. If I see correctly, that's Mr. Jasper van Dijk's daughter. Is that right? Welcome, nice. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u35	How nice indeed, welcome. It's about elections, and it's always fun when kids listen in. Of course. The elections are at the heart of our democracy, as others have said. Of course, there is also free access to the ballot box for all voters. For my party, that's a really good thing. We are still a little concerned about this at the moment. We really need to do everything we can to make that free access possible for everyone. The voting rights apply not only to the healthy voter, to the courageous voter or to the voter who is fooling around with the rules. It also applies, of course, to the vulnerable voter, to the cautious voter and to the voter who has been staying home for months because of fear of the virus. The right to vote really applies to them too. We must not only organise elections for the masses, for whom things are going reasonably well up to now, but also for those who are vulnerable, for those for whom it is less self-evident. If it turns out that some of those voters did not vote because of the virus, it will have an impact on the value of the election result. In any case, we have not helped them enough to use their democratic rights. As a result, over the next four years, as far as we are concerned, we will have a not fully representative democracy. Of course, we want to avoid that very much. I wonder how the Minister sees that. How are we going to avoid having another House of Representatives here for the next four years? That is why we are asking again, like other parties who have just done so, what else is possible. Are there any other options? How are we going to ensure that anyone who can vote and wants to vote can actually do so on 17 March? We also read the concerns of the UNG, for example, about the feasibility of additional measures. We certainly understand these concerns, but we also understand the concerns of those who do not dare, do not want or therefore cannot vote in this way. So again the question: have all the possibilities really been explored? For example, we read that we are looking at drive-through polling stations. But is there also a view, for example, of polling stations that sit outside? Is that possible to organize? What are the possibilities for that? We know there's less potential for the virus outside than inside. In answering our questions, I read that the cabinet did not consider voting for all those voters as an option. It gave as a reason that there is little time for this, that we understand, and also that the secret of voting would be less good to guarantee. I understand the latter on the one hand, but I am curious to see what the Minister is basing this on. In comparison with what is that voting secret less guaranteed? In the regular voices I understand that, but if you look at the voting with permission and the voting secret, I find something to do with that. So I'm curious about the Minister's response to that. I think that voting by authorization or by voting by letter and the voting secret is something to go into further. If time pressure is the reason why letter voting is impossible for everyone, then at least I would like to ask the Minister whether she has even considered taking more time. Was that an option that came through? I'm curious about the background to that. Finally. The Minister, her officials and municipalities throughout the country are working very hard to achieve this. We should like to thank them for this. In my view, we are all trying to achieve a good democratic process on 17 March. But we still have concerns and the questions I have just asked remain. Are we really doing everything we can now and is that enough for that vulnerable voter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Suppose it's March 17th in the morning and I have a cold or other corona symptoms. Then I can go to a test street for testing, on a bike or by car, but I can't go to a polling station to exercise my constitutional right and vote. I find that remarkable. I think there's something there that hasn't been solved properly. I thank the Minister for the law and for all the measures she has taken. I refer, for example, to the voting of letters. Like many others, I do wonder whether this can be extended. It is now for 70-plus people, but why can't it be for all vulnerable groups? With these letter votes, I am also concerned about the postal delivery that we have so nicely liberalised. Because if a package is put in the mail here on Friday, some of my fellow roommates will have it on Saturday and I do not rarely have to wait until Wednesday. What's the deal with that? Is that an Amsterdam matter? Can people in Amsterdam still vote in writing? Perhaps the Minister can shed some light on that. Then we'll have the early vote. This year we can vote not only on the 17th, but also on the 15th and the 16th. There are also polling stations for this. I have also seen nice tables of how many of those early polling stations there must be per population. But it's also about size, of course. Súdwest-Fryslân has over 80 cores. Yes, then it would be logical that there should be at least the possibility of voting early at any one core, while I seriously wonder if there is a polling station in every core at all. How's that? Are we not going to favour places where there is a high population density over rural areas, where the population density is less high? Now the Minister wants to increase the number of powers from two to three. We have reservations about that. It is already very difficult to maintain, or not to maintain, the secret of voting in that letter. But with those powers of attorney, it's very complicated. We have observers every time in the elections, including from the Council of Europe. Those reports by the Council of Europe, from GRECO, say every time: that power of attorney voting is actually extremely vulnerable. In some parts of the country, Saba, Statia, Bonaire, it doesn't happen either. But now the Minister says: we're going to expand it. We see a real problem there, a real danger. I ask the Minister, if we are going to make that letter vote possible and if we are going to make that early vote possible, why are we going to have these powers of attorney? It doesn't help me if I wake up on 17 March morning with corona symptoms, because yes, that letter can't vote anymore, early votes have already been, and a power of attorney is, in my opinion, no longer practicable. So what's to happen when I wake up with a cold on March 17th in the morning? How am I supposed to vote? And again, why can't I go to the test street but not to the polling station? A number of municipalities have said: we are going to experiment with this and we are going to make a voice street in the open air or drive-through, where you can go by car, or by bike in my case, to still vote. That is what I believe happened in Vught in the reclassification elections. Why isn't that happening everywhere? Then why are we going to say that in a few places it will be possible but not in others? I would also like to remind the Minister that I asked questions about this in the written procedure. Many groups then ask questions and there are very long answers, but to the question I have asked, there is suddenly a very short answer. It seems as if a very large piece of text has disappeared. I asked why the government does not choose to set up at least one coronaproof voting location per municipality, a voting street. Then there is a very brief answer: the general corona policy is that people with complaints should stay at home and not go outside. Yeah, but you can't limit the fundamental right to vote, can you? Sometimes that happens, for example, with a terrorist convicted by the judge. It may be imposed as an additional penalty that he is not allowed to vote. But you can't tell people who have corona: Too bad you have corona, but then you can't vote? I would like to ask the Minister: what am I supposed to do if I wake up on March 17 mornings with a cold or with corona symptoms? How am I supposed to vote? Can the Minister reassure me here? We are considering a motion on this point, and also on the issue of powers of attorney. We have already tabled a motion on the number of polling stations. I'm glad the Minister picked it out. In more than 50 municipalities there are fewer polling stations instead of more. I don't like the arguments behind that. I hear too often from municipalities that say: in certain neighbourhoods we expect a low turnout, so we do less polling stations. No, the opposite should be the case. Especially in neighborhoods where we expect people to be less likely to vote, you should make it as easy as possible. At least the disadvantage of concentrating on larger locations is that people have to go a lot further away. Can the Minister promise that she will direct and ensure that there are more polling stations in every municipality, as this Chamber has said, and not less? Finally, a point about exitpolls. We don't have one but three days to vote now. Normally this is the case: then exit polls can be held all day and after the polling stations are closed, it is published. That's the unwritten rule. This is now more problematic, or more difficult, because we can vote for three days. Now the Minister has promised to talk to these polling stations. I wonder if there's an outcome there yet. If that is not the case, I have made an amendment to codify that unwritten rule and say: you may have exit polls all day, from early in the morning to late in the evening, but as usual, as we are used to, you may publish it when the ballot boxes are closed. I would also like a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u38	I have just read through that amendment. The amendment talks about opinion polls, while Mr Van Raak is now talking about exit polls. That's two different things. Why does he want to do anything other than the exit polls he's talking about, which is opinion polls?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u39	These polls are generally the day before the elections. On election day itself, you have exit polls. You're not gonna hold a poll on the day of the election itself, because that's automatically an exit poll. The problem is, we don't have one day now but three days. If Mr Bosma does a round in the neighborhood or asks on the internet what people have voted, or if people make selfies, then that is not really a problem. The point is that this time the official polling offices are actually going to do what they always do, namely to publish an exit poll after the ballot boxes have been closed to prevent improper influence on the elections. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you. Oh, not yet. Mr Van Gent has a question. I thought it was your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u41	I also have a question about that amendment. I saw that show up in my mailbox last night. We shall therefore take a close look at this. In any case, I read in the explanatory statement that 'an early publication of election results should be prevented', but I do not think that is possible at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u42	No, that's exactly why that shouldn't happen. Such an exit poll has the suggestion of a result, while the elections are not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u43	"The early publication of election results must be prevented." But again, I don't think there are any early election results. There may be premature exit polls, but there are no early election results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u44	Oh, like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u45	Maybe you should take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u46	Well, I'd like to change that. If that gives me the support of the VVD, I'll be happy to adapt it. Otherwise, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u47	I promised that we would study it carefully and you can see that we are already doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u48	Okay. It's on the record. Thanks for the text suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u49	Then that's cleared up, too. Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u50	Madam President, thank you very much. I'm just looking at the timer. Do I have two hours and one minute available?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u51	Well, there's getting a little... It's just gonna be more, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u52	To be honest, I haven't quite prepared for that filippica, but I'd like to try, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u53	Go ahead. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u54	Madam President. One of the charms of the Constitution is its simplicity. You put in Article 4: "Every Dutchman has the same right to elect representatives of the people." You add that in Rule 53: 'The elections are held by secret ballot'. You think: that's clear and clear. But then the question arises: how do you work that out in the complex time of a pandemic? That is what we are dealing with here. How do we weigh up important conditions, such as security, care and equality? Then we must honestly acknowledge that it is clear in times of pandemic that you cannot fully meet all the conditions as a government. In any case, the SGP considers the overall picture presented by the government to be very careful. I would like to express my appreciation for the commitment of the government and the municipalities to organise the elections as effectively as possible. In doing so, the SGP takes seriously the distress call of municipalities, which say they are at the frontier of feasibility. We don't have the luxury of making all kinds of new wishes. The choices made do deserve a clear consideration and explanation. I would like to raise a few points. Why, for example, did the government not choose to have an application procedure carried out by the general practitioner instead of producing and distributing 2.4 million voting plus passes for 70+? There will be a lot of 70-plussers, including Mr Van Otterloo, for whom voting plus passes are not necessary at all because of the many alternatives. The SGP also calls for special attention to vulnerable voters under 70. We hear from people who have been inside since March and have a limited network. Not for everyone voting by proxy or a corridor to a letter voting office is an option. Now the government rightly writes that municipalities do not know which citizens are vulnerable. In itself that is a good thing, because you shouldn't think that a government would have all that in the poll. But what about the suggestion of requiring a doctor's certificate when applying? In order to prevent fraud, you could then require or ask the general practitioners to pass on until a certain date the names of those for whom a statement has been issued to vote by letter. With all the alternatives available, it will not be a storm to make use of this possibility, we expect. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this in concrete terms. Has it at least been considered that municipalities that wish and which manage to organise it before 1 February will be able to do so and gain experience in doing so? This does not guarantee equality of law, but it does not guarantee the age limit of 70 years. It is a gain that as many citizens as possible can vote safely. Mr. Chairman. An investigation has been carried out into the lead time of procedures to allow voters to vote. The check of the voting cards and the register of invalid voting cards by two members of the polling bureau is carried out one after the other, but that can also happen at the same time. At the same time, it appears that time savings can be achieved. The SGP likes to hear what choice is made here. Can parallel checking avoid the risk of crowds? Does that outweigh any other risks? I'd like to hear the Minister's reflection. To what extent do polling stations have the room to decide for themselves which process is most sensible in the circumstances? A limited percentage of voters found it necessary to refuse access to the vote because they did not want to comply with the rules. Those are nasty situations that need to be resolved as soon as possible. The government states that a polling station may, for example, request assistance from boas. My specific question is: have agreements been made on the timely availability of enforcers for problems in voting rooms? Practice shows that the opening hours of special polling stations in care locations do not need to be spacious to serve everyone. This is something the SGP can well imagine, provided that the information is sufficient. Is there a clear alignment between municipalities and care locations on openings and opening hours of special polling stations, so that all residents have sufficient opportunity to vote? Mr. Chairman. I had another question about the opinion polls, but I will leave them aside, because they have already been responded to by interruption. Finally, the SGP wishes the municipalities every success in their implementation. We hope that the positive experiences of the reclassification elections will be heard after 17 March. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Elections and the right to vote, the right of the Dutch to elect their representatives, is one of the most important foundations and fundamental rights in our democratic rule of law. This year's exercise of the right to vote looks different, as is very much the case at this time and unreal time. In order to protect health, it is important to be vigilant, including in the voting room. In the previous legal process, we have already taken measures to ensure the distance of 1.5 metres in the polling room and to be able to take the hygiene measures. The reclassification elections and also the elections on Saint-Eustatius show that it can be done: in a safe way you can vote in the polling station during corona. Mr. Chairman. My question follows on from what Mr Van Raak said: what if I have a cold or other symptoms of corona on the day of the election? Can the Minister explain how the election day would look for me on that day and how I can still exercise my voting rights on that day? Mr. Chairman. I have incredibly much appreciation, and my group has much appreciation, for the Minister, for the officials and for the municipalities, who, in a relatively short time, have looked very carefully at how we can ensure that the elections take place in March. We would like to express our appreciation for this. With this bill, the Minister proposes a number of additional measures to enable us to vote. For example, for people aged 70-plus, the possibility of voting in letters has been created. I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive answer to our questions in the written round of this law on how this whole process looks, how meticulously it is. That has given us a great deal of clarity. I would ask the Minister to make this process as clear as possible to the public. I am also very pleased with the clarification about people from 70+ who have received such a vote plus pass and who would like to cast their letter vote, which is something different than usual. If they bring that letter to the polling station, that voice will end up in trusted hands and be. I'm very happy about that. I ask the Minister if there can be a telephone helpline for people who have questions about exactly what to do with that voice-plus pass. Again, this is something new. Also for the people of 70-plus-young people they can also be at very old age--that's a whole change compared to what they've been through in their entire lives so far from their electoral age. As far as mail is concerned, the Minister's advice is now to put your vote on the bus on Friday to make sure it arrives on time. We would like some extra attention to be paid to this. Can the Minister agree with the mail that the mailbox will be emptied on all days from the week before the election day, so that the letters can still be picked up and counted at the last minute? Then you don't necessarily have to do the letter on Fridays on the bus, but you can also do it on Mondays, and possibly the bus can be emptied even on weekends. Please comment on the possibilities we have to extend the pick-up times of the mail in all places in the country, not only in the cities but also in the villages. Mr. Chairman. Then the early vote. The Christian Union wonders who it is most intended for. The Election Council has said that we must bear in mind that on those days, Monday and Tuesday, it can become extra pressure at the polling stations. I heard the Minister say this week in a talk show that it is mainly intended for people with vulnerable health. Can the Minister clarify that today? That brings me to the possibility for people with vulnerable health to vote. The Christian Union found it an attractive proposal from the Election Council to make it possible not only for people aged 70-plus but also, on request, for those who would like it and for whom that would be a result. But we see, and are also convinced by the Minister's explanation and the reactions of the municipalities, that this is no longer feasible in this period. Is our assumption that this would have been possible if we had started preparing for this election earlier? Can the Minister comment on that? Mr. Chairman. Then the Christian Union is in favour of making full use of and extending the possibilities of a special voting office or a special location. The drive-through polling stations already came along, but also the open-air polling stations. We would very much like the Minister to give full scope for this, including to allow people with vulnerable health or people with colds on the morning of the election day to vote. Can the Minister respond to that? Mr. Chairman. The previous legal process has already created the possibility for a third power of attorney. The Christian Union has always been critical of that power of attorney vote. Not only is the power of attorney not always a full alternative to people because you have to give up your voting secret, but it is also vulnerable. The Election Council and the OSCE have been pointing this out for years. My group certainly does not think that the choice to extend the number of proxy votes to three is self-evident. We still have the Bruins/Van der Graaf motion, which is being held, which calls for a review of this point after the reclassification elections. The Minister's reaction to this was that the power of attorney did not yet apply in the reclassification elections. We held the motion for that reason. However, the question arises as to whether, with all the additional possibilities we are now creating, it is still necessary to maintain that additional power of attorney. Because we know the vulnerabilities of that. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In relation to the early vote, I ask, like colleagues, how we can reduce the risks of influencing the voting process. How does the Minister intend to deal with possible exitpolls? I'm just gonna ask the question like this. Colleagues have asked the question differently and asked for a more detailed answer, but I would like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The evaluation of the reclassification elections shows that in practice it is difficult to distance people in the polling station from those who need assistance in voting. Not always were the mouth nose mask and gloves worn. I support the Minister when she wishes to point out to the municipalities that this should be given as an additional instruction to the electoral office members, to protect the members of the polling office and to protect the vulnerable electorate who needs assistance, but above all to allow the vulnerable electorate who needs assistance to cast his or her vote. The evaluation also shows that the distance in counting the votes is particularly difficult. That is why the possibility has been created to count the votes at another location. I would ask the Minister to clarify this a little more. How far could that location be from the polling station? How are we supposed to see that? We must prevent all those people and all those voices from going through the city or the neighborhood. What exactly is the Minister's view of this? I agree with colleagues who say that schools may be an interesting option. I know that many schools already serve as polling stations. At this time care homes and nursing homes may be more difficult to handle as a location. A school might be an interesting option, where you could also spread the entrance and exit. I would like to put these questions to the Minister in the first term. I'm very curious about her reaction to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u57	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr. Chairman. The Amsterdam cultural philosopher Johan Cruijff said: every disadvantage has its advantage. The advantage of the fact that almost all the plenary debates have been removed this week is that this debate can be debated in plenary. That is a good thing, I think, because it is about something very fundamental in our Dutch democracy. So I'm glad we're allowed to stand in this place. The most important thing is that there are many polling stations. People need to be able to vote. There's got to be enough people to man those polling stations. There must be plenty of facilities so that every voice counts. It is what the Minister says that there will be fewer polling stations in 50 municipalities. It can't be. Especially in rural areas that is not digestible. It is shocking that in this debate colleagues come up with totalitarian fantasies. I am afraid of GroenLinks, which states that this Minister must speak 'non-bindingly' with opinion polls. I also quote the word 'agreements' and the words 'piece commitment'. We shouldn't be doing all this, should we? We shouldn't go down this slippery path, should we? It's a right of information to take opinion polls. There is no evidence of any kind of bandwagon effect in politics. There is such a thing as the right to information. Let me remind you of the Constitution. No one needs prior authorization. I would also like to refer to Article 10 of the ECHR, which deals with freedom of information. Those talks should not take place, if only because the minister is a representative of the government, who may also deal with these kinds of agencies with large budgets. Do I hear from the Minister that we're not going this scary way? Mr. Chairman. Then vote in writing. I am in favour of it in principle. I'm hesitant on all sides, but under the circumstances, let's do it. Mr Öztürk said something clever at the technical briefing; that is why I remembered it. He said: no matter how you turn it or turn it, you vote from home, and then that voice is out of your hands and you don't know what happens to it. You're at the mercy of the mailman's whims and the processing by Aunt Pos. You don't know what else to do with it. Every package in which your new usb-drive or your new Zalando shoes you have ordered can indeed be followed by track and trace, and then you know that you have to be with the neighbors to pick it up. But there is no such thing far from here. So this is a very strange and actually disturbing matter. It should not be forgotten that, in the months after the elections, all the votes suddenly emerge. Mr. Chairman. A more fundamental question to the Minister is this: can the letter vote influence the outcome of the elections? We politicians all think that the whole of the Netherlands has been glued to our lips for four years and that everyone makes a nice decision, but in practice it turns out that the decision that someone is going to vote for is often taken in the last 24 hours before the elections. This is also apparent from the election process over the last few years. Think of the comet-like rise of Diederik Samsom two elections ago, which really reached 38 seats in the last few days before the elections. Mr Öztürk also owes this to his career. I say this in complete neutrality. Think also of the Turkish minister who was present at the elections in Rotterdam. This also had an impact on the elections. That all happened, I thought, the Sunday before the election. Think also of the commotion that Mr Timmermans made at the time about the sticker of my group leader, about the Koran and Islam. There would be major problems with Saudi Arabia. That was also happening in the last few days before the elections. In short, the last few days before the elections are crucial. They determine the election results. If you're gonna vote in a letter, you're gonna have to have a vote on Wednesday. If 2.4 million people can make use of it in principle, it could be huge numbers. Older people are often duty-conscious, so they don't let it arrive on Tuesday nights. They take it for granted and do their vote on the bus on weekends, or perhaps even sooner. All those things, like Diederik Samsom, the Turkish ambassador and the sticker, they miss. I think you might get another election result. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she agrees with me. Many of these elderly people might think: Wednesday is the election, so I'll just go to the P.O. Box on Wednesday to get my vote out. That voice will arrive on Friday. Does that vote count as non-released? When I read the pieces, this is the case. This could be about a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u59	Before proceeding, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u60	I would like to thank the PVV for supporting our demand for track and trace for the elections anyway. It's true that the last few days are important. That is why we have said the following. It may be that from a possible exit poll on Monday the VVD and the PVV will race. The media likes a bit of an election race in the last few days. This may benefit the PVV or the VVD. That is precisely why we have said that exit polls should be issued, but that they should not be published until 8 p.m. or 9 p.m. on Wednesday evening. You can't argue with that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u61	Well, I'm against that. I'd like to explain it to you as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u62	This is where Mr Bosma's hypocrisy comes in, because it suits him well now. Just now he made all sorts of comments about the last few days, for example about Samsom, but now it suits him well. When it comes to a race between the VVD and the PVV, where he can get some extra seats through the exitpolls and finally catch up with the PVV Rutte, he says: it's convenient for me. I think it would be a good idea for Mr Bosma to come forward with arguments. Why does he just keep a whole story that was quite reasonable to follow, but is he now giving a hypocritical answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u63	Ho ho ho. It's the last day of the year. Let's try to get into the Christmas spirit a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u64	Yeah, be a little nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u65	Yeah, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u66	But that goes for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u67	Yeah, I always do. Mr Öztürk now states that the forthcoming parliamentary elections will be a two-way street between the Freedom Party, my party, and the VVD. I'll leave that on him. But if he sees it show up like that, who am I to contradict him? I have just indicated why I am against banning the publication of exitpolls and/or exitpolls. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this subject. One. There is no political and logical evidence at all that a bandwagon effect affects elections. So what problem are you gonna solve? As a matter of principle, I should also like to take a look at this Minister of Liberal Affairs, Mr President, about the right to information. People need to know about this. If one party is doing well, you can say, "Okay, that party is doing well. You know what? I won't have to vote for it anymore." Or vice versa. It's just part of the whole palette that makes people decide their voices. I believe in the maturity of voters and citizens. I believe people are adults, but unfortunately you don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u68	In other words, Mr Bosma thinks it is okay if the media say on Monday evening: 'People are voting massively at the PVV. So vote for the VVD, if you don't want a PVV"? So you think it's okay if the media, opinion makers or exitpolls have an influence, which makes people vote for another party? So, in principle, you say that strategic votes are convenient for you at the moment: let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u69	It's just called freedom of the press, and you still have trouble getting used to it. It could be a bit of integration if you just accept that. We've got media and they're publishing cases. Sometimes there are nice things in it and sometimes there are no nice things in it. The Constitution simply states that no one needs prior authorisation. We also have Article 10 of the ECHR. It's as simple as that. I believe that citizens have a right to information. All this information counts in a very mature decision to vote for something or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u70	Is that a personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u71	You asked me to be nice. I've been holding back, and then Bosma comes up with stories like this. I think it's okay if he straighten that out by the end of the year. Then the discussion is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u72	I didn't get it, Mr. Chairman, but I don't agree with him. Mr. Chairman. Another point is that it's still complicated that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u73	I tend to keep giving you space, because maybe this is the last debate. Well, I guess that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u74	Letter voices can be perceived as complicated by a lot of people. You get mail twice, like a pass and so on. That can be very annoying for a lot of people. What if people with such a letter-voting form go to the polling station because they think that's what they have to do? Does that just count neatly? We read that this is going into a ministerial arrangement. I'm very curious about that. Mr. Chairman. As a matter of principle, my group has always been very hesitant on these issues. It opens the doors to all sorts of misunderstandings that run counter to the principle of voting secrecy. The last few times, entire families reported to polling stations. Mr Aboutaleb, among others, quite rightly intervened on that. There are also signs in the polling stations these days, because we don't want clubs. Now you can get that in a family context, or in a coffeehouse or mosque context, these kinds of things are exchanged. That's very dangerous, isn't it? That is an absolute disadvantage of this case. Suppose you refuse to use a mouth cap and still report to a polling station. You're gonna get rejected? Surely it is a constitutional right to vote. Suppose you feel sick and think: I didn't taste my breakfast this morning, but it is still Wednesday March 17th. You go to the polling station and report this to the boss of the polling station. Can it be said that you can't vote? Again, it is a constitutional right. Something really weird is going on. Mr President, I am looking at you with an oblique eye. It is not that I want to involve you in the debate, because that is not right. But the Minister proposes that it should be so that it is literally stated that the House of Representatives will be sworn in five days later than is normally the case. Normally, the new Chamber will be sworn in eight days after the election. The Minister is now proposing 13 days. Maybe that's just to take time. I think that's weird. Maybe I've been in the Bureau a little too long and I've become a little sensitive to it, but it's weird that a Minister of the Interior asks the House of Representatives something like that? Perhaps there are practical reasons, but a minister is not about that. That's what we're gonna do. It's a request. I don't know how I feel about it, but at least I think it's on the edge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u75	On the edge sounds very dramatic but what you mention is indeed a point. By the way, I didn't know you were going to bring this up, but it's a little alert that you're bringing this up. This indeed has implications for the Chamber. At the end, if everyone's been there, I'm gonna say something to that. I would also like to ask the Minister a question on your behalf. That is a little unusual, but this is important for the Chamber as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u76	That's not "a little" unusual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u77	That's totally unusual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u78	That's another cliff hanger. It's gonna be interesting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr Sneller thinks: now is my chance to say something. Mr. Sneller, do you want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u80	I do like a cliff hanger, so I'll wait until the end of the debate. Indeed, in the past, I have been trying to see if we could shorten those five days. It is also good for the electorate who voted to see the result as soon as possible. The formation can therefore begin in a blessed way. I would like to say the following to Mr Bosma. This is just a perfectly normal procedure, isn't it? It's already in another bill, and now it's being dealt with temporarily. It's being argued. We're co-legislator and the cabinet comes up with a proposal. There's nothing crazy about that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yeah, there's something crazy about it. At least it's rubbing. We as House of Representatives are simply the highest body in His Majesty's democracy. We control the government, and now the government says something about us. That's not how it should be, in principle. That is simply the principle of state law. At least I think it's weird. I think it is understandable, but it runs counter to the constitutional relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u82	I think there'll be more proposals from the Cabinet. Then we'll discuss it here. In this respect, it is entirely in line with the constitutional situation and indeed we have the final word for the moment, so let us use it. But I am glad that Mr Bosma also says that he understands it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u83	I would like to support Mr Bosma and the chairman. In substance, I understand the Minister's considerations very well, but the parliamentary route would have been that there was a request from the cabinet to the Chamber and that the Chamber would decide whether or not to do so. I fully agree with Mr Bosma that this should not be done through the back door of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u84	No, because it is also, in my mind, Article 5.6 of the explanatory statement and I think it is quite a principled thing. Once again, in terms of circumstances, it may be understandable, but now the government is coming up with something about the House of Representatives. Everything's nice and nice, but the government isn't about us. We're miles above the cabinet. Isn't that right, Mr. Van Otterloo?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u85	I would like to support Mr Bosma on this point in the sense that we are the legislator here. But I would also like to remind you that when I left the Chamber in '94, it was also twelve days later. So it's not a law of Medes and Persians that it's eight days. It has also been 12 days since the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u86	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u87	Well, it's a good thing we have someone in the room with a memory that goes back so long. Mr. Chairman. Another point is the election software. Why is the software package OSV2020 used in this voting process? Why are totals not added by hand or by a calculator? If more happens with OSV2020 than just add up, which of course can also be done with a calculator, such as sending data, then surely the computer on which OSV2020 is running is connected to the internet? That at least makes the case sensitive to burglaries and so on. We see how that goes in America. That is at least controversial; let me put it very neutrally. The VVD has once proposed to use the election software of the same company that is currently under attack in America: Dominion. So there's reason on all sides to be careful. The powers of attorney are used more often. How will the Minister prevent further abuse if more and more powers of attorney are later used? How to prevent abuse in the electronic provision of powers of attorney? The explanatory memorandum discusses a number of measures to make forgery of printed copies a little more difficult. But how is the recruitment of votes prevented? Does the Minister agree with my view that voting has now been simplified? We all shouldn't want that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on fundamental rights. Is it true that the Minister gets carte blanche to determine what measures are being taken the day before the elections? Why is this? Wasn't that just supposed to be dealt with in the bill? Does the Minister not think that this is a bad thing after further examination? In response to GroenLinks' question, the Minister indicated that until two days before the elections, he would be able to make additional rules by ministerial regulation. The Minister can't be serious, can he? What are we doing here today if the Minister actually gives himself carte blanche to come up with all kinds of other measures just before the elections when we have passed this law? Can the Minister cancel the election on the last day? We've seen Corona go through the roof again this weekend. Suppose, say, say, hey, it gets worse with corona, can the minister just say on Tuesday: boys, it's all off; we don't have elections? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, exactly three months from now, we will have the celebration of democracy again. For all these joyful moments: the more partyers, the better. And for elections, the more voters, the more joyful they are. It is important to strive for the highest possible turnout even in this heavy corona time. Fortunately, the experience gained from the review of the reclassification elections is encouraging. In any case, it did not lead to a lower turnout than in other reclassification elections. But some special measures are proposed for the March elections. They have already been mentioned: more power of attorney, letter voting and keeping voting rooms open longer. The VVD is usually rather reluctant and cautious with such far-reaching steps, but in this case I can finally quote Machiavelli in the Chamber: the end justifies the means. We are therefore in agreement with the proposal, but we do have some questions and comments on the framework conditions. I call it keeping a small number of voting rooms open for two days longer. As far as the VVD is concerned, they are mainly intended for vulnerable groups, who look forward to going to a full voting room on a busy Wednesday. I understand that the Minister is going to launch a comprehensive communication pathway. She even reported it getting firmer than usual. We would therefore like to ask whether she is going to communicate that those two days are really intended for the vulnerable groups, who are so literally and figuratively given the room to vote quietly. Speaking of vulnerable groups, I have already drawn attention to the blind and visually impaired in the past. That's what I want to do now. You talk about 350,000 Dutch. But I also want to talk about the 1.5 million low-lettered. In the past we have experimented with tools, such as a mold or headphones. Although that is of course not specifically corona-related, I would ask the Minister to respond to this. What are we going to do so that this group can also participate in the celebration of democracy? A concern in our group is the possible exit polls. This has also been raised by a number of others. The concern of the VVD is not so much what the outcome of these exit polls might be, but that it may affect voters. We would therefore like to know from the Minister how our concern could be taken away. That question has also been asked by other parties. The VVD also finds it very encouraging that help is being offered on all sides. We were able to read about MBO students today. Mr Smalls and I have asked questions about this in the past. But we are also very much approached by associations and event organisations that have space and people available or would like to make them available. The question to the Minister is: where can these people go? And how is this full range of assistance coordinated? For once again, of course, municipalities also suffer from a lack of human power and space. What is also a point of attention to us is the following. We are very good at drafting rules and laws in The Hague politics, but we sometimes forget to listen to those who have to put it into practice. In the electoral process, it is the municipalities that have to organize and humanise the voting rooms. In this respect, the VVD attaches great importance to the judgment of the VNG, which has sent out a very clear signal. It can agree to the present proposal, but at the same time it calls for further measures not to increase the pressure and not to ask for the impossible from municipalities. I was sorry that a letter appeared promptly from Amsterdam in which, on the contrary, it was advocated that the letter vote should be extended. It would be nice for the congregations to speak with one voice. I should like to wish the Minister and the local authorities every success in organising the forthcoming elections in March. I hope Corona will be further away. I continue to express optimism, but it is incredibly important that we should be able to vote safely and easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the supplementary emergency bill Temporary election law covid-19. Earlier, together with an almost full Chamber, I agreed to the temporary election law. In my view, this is an urgent supplement. I will therefore support it as well. But both at the time of the submission of the original temporary bill and at the time of the submission of this supplement, we still lived in a different corona reality than that in which we have lived since last Monday evening. We live in a hard lockdown, because the number of infections is dangerously rapid and the care of even more COVID-19 patients is difficult to cope with. In submitting this supplementary emergency law, the Minister indicated that we are living in special times and we are facing special elections, and that it is very important that the elections should be able to continue and that voters should be able to vote in due course. I wholeheartedly support that. This virus must not be allowed to undermine our democracy and the constitutional right to vote. However, it is a pity that the Minister only allows voters aged 70 and over to vote in the Lower House elections by letter, and not just because the people at risk are in all age groups. As we learn more about the coronavirus, it becomes increasingly clear that the virus can also be very dangerous for young people, and that the ic's are not exactly full of 70-plussers. Because everyone knows by now examples of peers, in my case of late 30s, early 40s, who get seriously ill, with or without lung damage, and months later are still exhausted all day. That is why I consider it unwise and contrary to the principle of equality to allow only 70-plussers to vote by post. People who do not want to run the risk of being infected by physically voting at the polling room are dependent on others who want to vote for them by proxy. The democratic right to vote cannot and must not be considered lightly. Trusting someone else with your power of attorney can be a real and very understandable threshold for people. The additional possibility for 70-plussers to vote by letter would give effect to the CDA's Terrstra motion, which called on the government, in addition to the measures already provided for in the Temporary Law on Elections covid-19, to enable vulnerable voters in particular to vote by post. I do not think that the Minister's choice to limit himself to voting in favour of 70-plussers in the light of the operative part of the aforementioned motion is appropriate. It is certainly a missed opportunity at this time of the hard lockdown, in which no one knows how long the strict corona measures will last. After all, nobody has a glass ball, and it became clear during the last Corona debate that we are not only still sailing on sight, but also in the dense fog. I agree with the questions raised by the previous speakers on this measure. Mr. Chairman. The additional proposal to allow the two days prior to 17 March to vote in one or more voting rooms in each municipality, depending on the size of the municipality, seems fine to me. I don't have any comments on that. I agree with the concerns expressed by the previous speakers about sufficient opportunities, especially outside the Randstad, to vote early. Are there enough polling stations? I agree with the questions put by Mr Van Raak of the SP, who is quite rightly and certainly not the only one concerned about the people waking up around 17 March with colds or even proven corona. A so-called coronastem street for people with complaints, completely coronaproof, is actually a wonderful idea by Mr Van Raak. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer on this. Mr. Chairman. We are now in the so-called hard lockdown... I think I'm skipping a piece. Apologies. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the problem of collecting sufficient declarations of support for new political parties. For the viewers at home, a declaration of support is a written declaration by a electorate supporting a party's participation in the elections. The deadline for collecting declarations of support has already been extended in the Temporary Elections Law from two to four weeks prior to the date of candidacy. That is the date for submitting the candidate lists, namely 1 February 2021. That seemed to me to be an excellent extension in the first instance, which did justice to the corona situation in which we found ourselves at the time. The declarations of support, 30 per constituency for a total of 19 constituencies, i.e. 570 copies throughout the Netherlands and 10 more on Bonaire, must be physically completed and signed by the supporters at the town hall of their municipality, after verification of the identity card by a municipal official. But we are now in a so-called hard lockdown, at least until January 19th. How desirable is it to ask new political parties to ask people to leave their homes and take extra risk by physically going to the town hall to sign a declaration of support? That is an additional risk for the supporter and others as well. The government tells people to stay home as much as possible, to work at home and to receive up to two people from outside the family a day with a distance of 1.5 metres. As far as imaging is concerned, almost 51 new parties have already been registered at the Election Council. In the last election, there were about 80. If all these parties are going to collect statements of support, which we should assume, a total of 30,600 unique signatures should be collected. 30,600 people will have to go to the city hall on the street. That is in fact contrary to the measures we have been instructed to take. In my opinion, under these circumstances, it is unfeasible and undesirable for new political parties to ask at least 30,600 people not to stay home. The requirement of physical presence in the implementation and signature of statements of support at the town hall creates a significant obstacle to the collection of sufficient support. Maintaining this demand in its present form is thus a limitation of democracy and an almost insurmountable threshold for new political parties. Also, the obligation to allow 580 people per new party to enter the streets and get in touch with others is contrary to the ratio of the cabinet's corona measures in this hard lockdown. Does the Minister agree with me that new political parties cannot ask their supporters to take additional risks and to oppose the corona measures? Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister, by analogy with Article 26 of the Temporary Law COVID-19, to use two-sided audiovisual means of communication for filling out and signing declarations of support and checking the identity card. This was also made possible in these special times of corona in the Temporary Law COVID-19 for the passing of notarial acts. Examples include mortgage deeds, documents for associations and foundations or a will. Normally, the passing of a notarial act must take place in the physical presence of a notary. As long as the Temporary Law COVID-19 is in force, there is therefore an exception. An audiovisual means of communication shall comply with the requirement to enable the notary to establish the identity of persons at the time of the performance of the instrument. Persons must also be able to communicate directly with the notary through this means of communication. This also seems to me to be an excellent alternative in this hard lockdown to the physical presence of the supporter at the town hall in the presence of the municipal official. Both the supporter and the municipal official can stay at home. I would like to ask the Minister if she sees any possibilities for this. For example, it can be a simple video call connection, allowing the filling in, signing and checking of the remote support statements and thus fully coronaproof to take place. I have an amendment in preparation which will be forwarded and distributed to all the spokesmen during this debate. I'm through with my questions, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I've even got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen to name the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the week when the word "half-meter society" was declared word of 2020, we are talking about one-and-a-half-metre democracy. This is indeed the second round. We've passed a temporary law before. It appears to work well in practice, at least on the basis of the experience gained during the reclassification elections. That's good to know, because we had some concerns in the Chamber back then. We are also putting some concerns on the table today about the second step, the spread of the elections on the one hand and the introduction of letter votes on the other. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that the motions tabled on this point by Mr Sneller and my colleague, Mr Terpstra, have quickly been converted into a proposal which we can discuss today, at the end of this year. Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the starting point is that we must avoid people in the Netherlands having to make some sort of balance between their health on the one hand and their basic right as citizens to cast their votes on election day. Even though that sounds very big, these are dilemmas that are actually playing now. We notice that in a time of hard lockdown, but that may also be the case in March. That is why it is wise that we should spread the elections over three days and that group which is seen as generically vulnerable should allow people who are 70 years of age or older to vote by letter in addition to all the other possibilities they have. Following on from what other colleagues have asked on that issue of spreading elections in three days' time, I have the following question to the Minister. How are we going to communicate in such a way that the other two days are mainly in favour of people who consider themselves vulnerable or have vulnerable health? 'Cause it's gonna be all about that communication. People aren't supposed to think, well, I've known it a long time; we're gonna go there on Mondays. With a limited number of polling rooms, I can also imagine that this can help the people who run those polling rooms to do it properly, so that there are no long queues. So I would ask the Minister to at least explain clearly and practically how she intends to promote this. Can the Minister also brief us on those two issues that we discussed earlier? The availability of sufficient, and sufficiently large voting locations, and the availability of sufficient members of polling stations. I am also pleased that the Minister has started the call I made a few weeks ago with the National Chamber of Associations to mobilise students. Today there is the proposal of the MBO Council to make young people available for this purpose. Very well, but with that I have two practical questions. One. Is it true that you have to be 18 years of age or older, do you want to be able to play a role in this process? What are the reasons for that? Because not every mbo has reached the age of 18 years. Second. After these elections, how are we going to hold on to this huge influx of extra volunteers? Municipalities have been hoping for this for a long time, not only because of corona, but before that, because there was already a shortage. Can we get these people involved? Because after the next elections, we might be organising elections again. We'll see about that. Mr. Chairman. The Minister also started work on a report from the Foundation Against Hackable Elections. It has made a comment about the possibility of the voting software being manually recounted. I have heard the Minister say that this will be tried in a number of places in the Netherlands. The CDA believes that this is a good thing. Can the Minister also indicate how many places that will be? Mr. Chairman. As a CDA, we include a number of colleagues here in the Chamber on the voting of letters in relation to vulnerable people. We've already asked the Minister about that. For the CDA Group, however, it has become clear that this is particularly unacceptable. We would very much like to meet people who have not left the house for months, because of their health or because of a transplant they are waiting for or for any reason, but the municipalities have made it quite clear that this is not possible. The minister said she can't pull this out of a database and we're not gonna settle this before then. I'm so sorry about that. I would like to invite the Minister to say something about this publicly, because I know that a lot of people want to hear with interest why that should not be possible. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the CDA, all the proposals that come forward are based on the need to ensure their feasibility. The municipalities have really made the clear call: don't make up new things in this Chamber, because we simply won't, especially in the short term. For the CDA, that at least gives the argument that we can rely on this law on those parts and that at least we do not intend to introduce new things, because you should not bother the people who have to implement it with additional demands. I agree with the comments that have been made about that process from the mailbox to the delivery to the city hall. I think it can be not only a practical but also an emotional consideration of a voter: I put that envelope with my voice in that mailbox, and then what happens to it? I would like to invite the Minister to say something about that. How do we guarantee that all of this goes safely and well, that people know what happens to that letter? I also agree with Mr Van der Graaf's appeal, which the Minister says he should consider in her written answers. You have a voting pass and you have a voting plus pass and you can take it to the polling station and turn it in or you can put it in the mailbox. That's all well arranged, but perhaps a little too unclear. Maybe even people who are not vulnerable have simple questions about how it will work in that polling room: do I have to wear a mouth cap there, for example? Just when we have a corona helpline in case you have a consideration about infections, we should also have a line of: I'm going to vote tomorrow, how do I do that? I therefore call for the question mark behind the idea of doing so, removing it and putting an exclamation mark behind it. I would also like to add my voice to the remarks made by Mr Bisschop and Mr Van Gent: I wish all the 355 municipalities in the Netherlands who have to live up to all this, great success in the service of our democracy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Before I finish the first term, I would like to say something about what you two were discussing just now. As President of the Chamber, I would also like to make a comment to the Minister on a provision in the present legislative proposal concerning the functioning of the entire Chamber. I've already reported it in the meantime, but I think it should be official on your behalf now. The first day of meeting is the thirteenth day of the bill, and that is a Tuesday. This means either that the old Chamber should meet on Monday to examine the credentials of the new members or that both the old Chamber and the new Chamber should meet on Tuesday. Well, in times of corona that does not seem wise to me, I say; that is very undesirable. The verification of credentials cannot be completed on Monday because of course little can be done on Saturdays and Sundays. So a meeting on Tuesday of both the old and the new Chamber is confusing and organizational also almost impossible to do. That is why, on behalf of all of you, on behalf of the Chamber, I would like to propose to the Minister that, by letter of amendment, the day of the first meeting be determined on the 14th day. Then we can do it in a calm and orderly way with regard to the old Chamber and the new Chamber as well as the credentials. So an extra day. Do you agree with that? Yeah? Well, here's how it's gonna be. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-4.u95	For now, I would like to suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. A number of Members have to go through the presentation of the report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance, which I myself will receive, so I shall suspend until 1.30 p.m. Then you'll have plenty of time to prepare yourself, Minister.
