ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue with the debate on the Corona Act, on COOVID-19. I'm actually expecting the Minister of VWS and the Minister of the Interior in section K. I see the Home Secretary come in and welcome her. We're just waiting for the US Secretary of State. He's supposed to be in "K."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	I hear Secretary Grapperhaus is dying to get started. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. In May of this year, I wrote a letter to your Chamber, also on behalf of colleagues from the Interior, Climate and Health, Welfare and Sport and Medical Care. In it I announced that the cabinet would be planning four additional legislative measures to combat COOVID-19 for the longer term. The cabinet believes it is important to create an additional legal instrument for the fight against the crisis, as I said at the time. The bill that that letter referred to, we are discussing today. I will deal with four issues. First, enforcement and everything related to it; I shall do so in the first place on the basis of the Amendment No 2. 33 by Mr Veldman and others. Then there is religion and philosophy, then there is the role of the security regions, and finally I will briefly address the issue of state emergency law. Mr. Chairman. With the amendment in part No. 33 Mr Veldman and others, I should like to summarize briefly a proposal for the reduction of certain maximum penalties and also for the non-involvement of so-called corona facts. I understand that amendment very well, because, as stated in it, the one and a half meter measure is so contrary to natural human behaviour that a violation of it could quickly be made. The draft law therefore proposes to reduce the maximum penalties for breach of the covid rules and to prevent infringements of the safe distance rule and the ban on the formation of groups from entering the criminal record. In this respect, we are thinking along the same lines as the amendment. On the other hand, it is a basic rule which is necessary to reduce the risk of contamination. When it comes down to it, we really need something to be able to maintain. That was also an important reason for filling in the initial motion tabled by Mr Azarkan in such a way that we said that a first fine does not count as part of the assessment for the vog. But I understand the urgent desire of the Members of your Chamber to reduce the negative effects of corona fines on participation in the labour market as well. That is also what I am saying on behalf of Mr Dekker on Legal Affairs. There was therefore a deliberate distinction in the legislative proposal between offences linked to ordinary human behaviour and offences involving more, for example, the organisation of an event if that is not allowed. It is also about continuing to work on that point in the assessment and the criminal record. But I understand, as I have said, that the signatories to the amendment really want to have the assurance that this cannot be considered further and that these fines will also be reduced in so far as they concern the one-and-a-half-metre measure and group-building measure. We leave this amendment to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u4	I shall go first to Mr Azarkan and then to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u5	I am pleased that the Minister is giving that judgment. I do wonder what has changed between 20 May and now in that sense, because the Minister's argument that it goes against nature to keep a distance of 1.5 metres has been valid since March. That hasn't changed. What is leading to this judgment and why is the Minister happy with this decision and does he understand the fact that the Chamber wants this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u6	I said something about that. There has also always been the need to reduce the risk of contamination. In April, May and June March, of course, I will also take this with me. On that point there was a very clear urgency and we said that there really must be a certain effect of these fines. Meanwhile, it has become very clear that your Chamber said: at one time it does not cooperate in the vog, but it really needs to work even longer. This also occurred from June from the federations of the enforcers and the police department. That's what I've outlined before and written in the letter. They also said that we think it is really more sensible to deal with this in the way that is also stated in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u7	I also raised the question yesterday whether the people who have been fined before will get their money back if we adopt the amendment together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u8	I'll come back to that later. I wanted to discuss the amendment first. I come back separately to Mr Azarkan and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u9	The court has the possibility to apply the principle of standing in the case of fines. Yesterday, I heard a conversation between two catering companies. They say that the amount in the event of a breach of the Horeca Act is €4,000. Sometimes this little pubs hit, and then €4,000 is a terrible amount of money. You have small restaurants with a few tables. Such a fine could really destroy them. But there are also very big entrepreneurs who laugh and say: with me the business is completely full and the people are neatly at a distance; I have a turnover of €100,000 on the weekend; if I have to pay a fine of €4,000, that's not for me. Has there ever been any consideration of the principle of carrying capacity here? Because for one person, it's really something different than for the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u10	That's ultimately up to the judge. As you know, I'm staying out of that. We have seen in recent weeks that in several arrondissements in the Netherlands the judge has decided several times precisely on this point to moderate the fines in certain cases. By the way, if you read the legislative proposal and its explanatory statement, you will also see that we still make a difference between natural and legal persons in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u11	But wouldn't it be better if you gave a clue from your point of view, because now you run the risk that a lot of these small catering companies are using the courts, and I think they are already overburdened. I'd take care of it in an easier way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u12	I'm not giving any clues about this, especially to the judiciary. But I have always said to the Public Prosecutor: there is a legal capacity to designate, but if I consider using that power, I will refer it to the Chamber first. Right now, I don't see any reason to do that. And further, well, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u13	I insist that there is too much difference between a small catering entrepreneur and a large entrepreneur and that it would be a lot easier if it were differentiated. Because then you won't get the small businessmen and the judge into unnecessary trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u14	That's really the judge's job. The penal law in the Netherlands is not so fine that we differentiate all fines according to someone's income or property position. Like I said, that works, too. Because here too, the judge differentiates in his decisions, and that also seems to me to respect. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen raised, and that concerns enforcement. Let me explain the following. In the Netherlands enforcement is the general principle that enforcement does not consist solely of issuing tickets. It is also important for enforcers to be present in the public space and to address and warn citizens in the event of an established violation. At the beginning of the corona crisis, this was included in the Emergency Security Council Resolution COVID-19, which can be found on the Security Council's website. It says, and I quote: "The offender is addressed to his responsibility and receives a (oral) warning." If the desired response remains after the warning, at least a enforcer can see that the citizen 'consciously' violates the rules, as I said when I mentioned the policy framework of the Public Prosecutor during the debate on 2 September. I quoted that at the time. That was this passage. I quote them again: 'The enforcement on the streets by police and boas is always asking for common sense and appealing to the citizen's own responsibility. If, however, the citizens deliberately fail to follow or comply with the measures, especially after being addressed by the enforcer, they must act as a deterrent." The point is, moreover, that citizens should not be able to derive rights from that policy framework. But this is how the policy framework works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u15	Maybe you could finish this piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u16	This is my explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u17	Then I will go to Mr Groothuizen and then to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u18	Of course, this raises some questions. The Minister quoted earlier from these documents. That's what he's doing now. I think we saw last week that the D.A. says this isn't a triple hit you can claim. That's what the canton court confirmed. Let me open the question: what is the point of a citizen that the Minister of Justice says in a plenary debate that this is the usual way of working if you, as a citizen, cannot use it? I understand the state's position very well, but then it doesn't make much sense for the Minister of Justice to tell us here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u19	The debate on 2 September dealt with the question of exactly how to maintain it. That's what I've put in the frame that's been there for a month or... I'm gonna have to adjust that by now. Since early July, i.e. a month or three or a little more than that, there has been a significant decrease in the number of fines issued. Moreover, in its amended version at the end of September, the Public Prosecutor's Office indicated that, as the number of infections and the like is increasing again, more intensive action will have to be taken in this context. Again, the question arose as to whether these people are immediately thrown on the ticket, so to speak. This shows that this is not the case. This is also apparent from the enforcement strategy that the Security Council itself hands out to the enforcers. I took that one once, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u20	This is very vague, isn't it? The Minister says that there is a three-string in enforcement, namely appealing, warning, fineing. Then there are people sitting on their case, and then the Public Prosecutor's Office, which the Minister is always right to say is the authority that ultimately is about it, that that three-stroke is not a policy at all, and that you cannot rely on it at all. That will then be confirmed by the judge. Then there's just two different versions that are opposite each other, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u21	What happens in a concrete case... That is why I quote from the relevant policy framework, which sets out that point. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, for example, asked about this intention. The point in the policy framework is: "if the citizen does not act consciously'. I also explained on 2 September that I myself asked for this, with exactly this explanation. Next, the D.A. is still saying that you can't derive rights from the policy framework. I understand that, because people are looking at the circumstances of the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u22	Then there is no fixed line, what was the Minister of Justice in the debate when was it? Two or three weeks ago it was true: in principle it is calling, warning, fineing. So that's not the landline at all. This will undoubtedly occur in a lot of cases, but there are also similar cases where this does not occur. If it didn't happen, it won't do you any good. To be honest, I do not understand why the Minister devoted so many words to this at the time if it is ultimately something that may have a role to play but perhaps not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u23	That's what we disagree on. For the sake of clarity, I would refer you to the enforcement strategy. Those pieces didn't come from me. I have taken note of it and this is what the enforcers are being sent out with. This means that this will happen in the vast number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u24	The vast number, but not in a number of cases, is quite different from what the Minister said in the debate a few weeks ago. You can say something wrong for once, but then I think it would be a good thing for the Minister to say: I may have given a too broad and optimistic explanation at the time, but it is more nuanced. Anyway, I understand that we can't expect that kindness today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u25	I don't know if that has anything to do with cordiality. I looked at what I said about this last 2 September and I do not think I said anything other than what I said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u26	I fully support the questions and analysis of D66. In the debate on 2 September, I also asked questions about it. I have just heard the Minister of the United States say that we are doing parliamentary work here and everything that is being exchanged here is being taken into account and the rules are being explained. On 2 September we also spoke with the Minister of Justice and Security and again today. It clearly indicates that there is a triple: first you are addressed and you are warned and then there is only enforcement action and penalty. Everyone's been able to hear that. The Minister has confirmed this on several occasions in the debate. How is it that the Minister's word does not seem to be working in the daily practice in which the prosecutor and the judge judge the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u27	I repeat, this is the piece I just mentioned, namely the policy of banning enforcement of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The other piece is the security council's enforcement strategy. I read what's in there. I don't have an influence on that, and I shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u28	But the Minister for Justice and Security does indeed have an influence on how the measures are and how they are enforced, especially when it comes to incorporating such a three-stroke into the law. I note that, although this emergency law has reduced the amount of the fine and that there is no further note on your legal document, it is still not legally anchored, which is a matter of great concern to me. If all these people were 22 this week, and last week there were 4 people without a lawyer standing in court and the judge saying I paraphrase for a moment "it's nice that the Minister of Justice and Security has said that, but it can but it doesn't have to," then my question is what you say to all those people. Isn't it wise that we should take care of that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u29	I have quoted from the two policy papers of the Security Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I keep saying that I'm not about what is said about it in court in the end. That's not up to me. Another thing is, this is enforcement policy. That is something other than laying down a legal standard in criminal law. If, as proposed by the Veldman amendment, we say at some point that there should be another fine or that it should not be included in your judicial documentation, that is the discussion we are having here about what comes into the law, but not about what enforcement policy will ultimately look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u30	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u31	I have an amendment in preparation. I find it very typical, and I would like to make this quite clear here, that in the previous debate the Minister for Justice and Security was quite sure that we are always working with the three-stroke. I've interrupted the Minister on that, as have other MPs. He remained in that position and I think it is very tragic that it is not now enshrined in the law. I am going to table an amendment to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u32	Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij, using the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u33	Mr. Chairman. I also asked the Minister about the implementation of the Van der Staaij/Klaver motion, including in the September debate. On the one hand, he asked for a cautious penalty policy. That's what we see realized...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u34	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u35	Oh, I thought it was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u36	No, I only answered that amendment because there are some questions from Mrs Van Kooten, you and others. So I'm gonna keep going, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u37	I don't mind at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u38	Oh, you're sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u39	No, not at all. I applaud it. Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of Mr Azarkan and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen as to how I deal with fines already imposed. Those fines were imposed for a committed violation. This includes a sanction, and that was the €390 fine. That was a sufficiently stated amount, it has also often been in the news in many ways but has also been announced everywhere. If one does not agree with that fine, one can oppose the criminal order and then the case will be brought before the judge. He's gonna have to judge that. However, as soon as a fine is enforceable in all cases, my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, has a legal duty to implement it. Many of the fines previously imposed, over 4,000, have already been paid in full. Almost 20,000 fines are paid in instalments. In the context of how it works in a state-of-the-art relationship, I see no reason to stop the collection in the remaining 4,000 cases. It is not for me as a minister to change a sanction imposed by the Public Prosecutor or by the courts or to decide independently not to implement it. If I were to do anything about that, it would be a violation of the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u41	I'd still like to suggest that we answer all the questions. Otherwise it's after every sentence... No, Mrs. Van Kooten, the Minister has just begun. We're doing a day and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u42	I can do it fast, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u43	No, I'd like the Minister to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u44	Then there is Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question about what was promised in the letter of 25 September on the deletion of the emergency regulation for infringements. This has been incorporated in Article VIIA of the letter of amendment of this bill. Mr. Chairman. Why don't all the Corona offenders get a lawyer assigned? Criminal cases relating to offences dealt with by the canton court are excluded from the addition of a lawyer. A derogation may be made where there is particular factual or legal complexity or the serious interests of the seeker. The Legal Assistance Board shall then examine in a case whether there is factual or legal complexity or serious interest of the suspect. To this end, the suspect must submit an application to the Legal Assistance Board. Mr Veldman asked about the maintenance of measures in accordance with Article 58h, the condition for public buildings, and Article 58i, the condition for events. How's that going in practice? Mainly enforcement means that the violation is terminated. So that happens at parties by actually ending the party, the group formation. Here I also describe what is contained in the enforcement manual of the Security Council and in the policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office. With large crowds, the issue of crowd management always plays a role. In other words, as a maintainer, you have to take into account the possibility of a threat getting out of hand. Ending the offence and de-escalating action is always the first point of view of the action, and that is also covered in these documents. Citizens can be asked to leave the site first and only if warnings have no effect is the starting point for a report to be made. The Van der Staaij/Klaver motion. Reducing the role of criminal law is linked to the evaluation of enforcement policies. I described that in the letter of 25 September. This should show how enforcement has progressed in the first few months. As you can see, we are trying to solve a whole section of the matter through administrative law, but you can also see that the role of criminal law, the issuing of fines, has fallen enormously from July, let me put it this way. But we must first have that evaluation and look at the impact on compliance behaviour, because it is only after that that I can come back to the question of whether we should continue with this approach or whether we should opt for a different approach. Perhaps it is good to stop here, because Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Hijink had the question: what message do you have for the people at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u45	No, I just want you to answer the questions. You're welcome to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u46	Isn't it? Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Hijink said: what is the message for people who are in a very difficult daily situation because of these 1.5 metres? A number of examples have been reviewed. First of all, my message is that, in formulating the rules, we have, of course, made all kinds of considerations in order to do justice to other interests in addition to public health. Therefore, exceptions have also been made which are not so much motivated by the public health perspective as by other important social or individual interests. I'll mention a few. Grandparents, neighbours or parents of boyfriends do not need to keep their distance to young children who need guidance on the streets. You will find this in Article 58f (3) (d). For the son who wants to visit his old mother and support her, the government doesn't get behind the front door. In addition, caregivers are excluded from the distance standard, Article 58f (3) (b) and may always go to a care facility, Article 58o (1) and (3). I can also reassure you about children who live part of the week with one parent and part of the week with another, because they are resident at the same address under this law, Article 58f (1) (a). The same applies to foster children who are temporarily admitted to a family, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. This also applies to co-parenting, composite families and multiparent and rainbow families, where a child lives with one or more parents for part of the time. And it also applies to students who live part of the time with their parents and seniors who have been temporarily taken in by one of the adult children. In busy shopping streets it is difficult to observe 1.5 meters. Firstly, it says in Article 58f (1) "stop at an unsafe distance'. That is, if you're in each other's presence for a moment while you can distance... If you really have some time... How do I put it? If you stick together for some time, you're in the wrong situation, let me put it this way. This legal standard is not meant for passing by or by chance coming out of two shopping paths in the supermarket, but that does not mean that the responsibility is also exercised there. That's the mantra all the time: avoid crowds and go at another time. That is, of course, also what we state in the duty of care to shopkeepers, Article 58k (1). Fix now as much as possible that people are also able to keep those 1.5 meters. In that case, Article 58k (2) allows the mayor to take or have any action taken if necessary in public buildings, or "Article 58m' is "Article 58m' if that is not done in public places. We have a real eye for those kind of difficult situations. That's what I'm supposed to do. But at some point, we really need to keep the main rule as it is. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Brenk asked: does it also apply if you have received multiple fines? Are they not included in the judicial documentation? Yes, even in the case of multiple fines, it is not included. Well, at least I've answered all the questions on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u47	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf and then Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, you may ask a question, because I have not limited the number of interruptions, but you have asked most of the questions of all Members of Parliament. So you should take that into account. You know that I am in favour of the rights of individual Members of Parliament, but the balance is not supposed to be lost. So you have to be a little reluctant about that. After Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen follows Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thanks to the Minister for clarifying the situations for children living out of residence, children living part of the week with one parent and part of the week with the other parent, and the expatriating daughter who comes home on weekends. I am talking about the situations in which one goes on the road together.These are all situations where the Minister says that they are covered by an exception, already at the moment; it is not the case that enforcement will focus on this at the moment. Then I explicitly seek the Minister's undertaking that in these situations enforcement is indeed not targeted and that fines will not be imposed. People sometimes fear that when they hear that they have to keep a distance of 1.5 meters when they are out with their loved ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u49	I can only confirm that. As Mrs Van der Graaf says, fines are certainly not being imposed. This is, of course, really being taken into account, regardless of the exceptions that have been laid down in the law. As I have said before, there are only three or more of them. This also means that it is not enforced if someone brings to the hospital a needy neighbor with whom he does not live and who is not covered by any of the exceptions. It is right that attention should be paid to this and that we have explicitly confirmed this in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u50	Can the Minister explain to me the difference in that he can make legislation to have the notes on a judicial document withdrawn or removed but that he cannot make regulations to return fines already imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u51	Because there is a fact of law, a decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, or a court order, how should I put it? Judgment or order of the court. I think it's a verdict in this case. I can't go into that as Minister of Justice. That is indeed the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u53	It doesn't feel right. In that sense, I'm going a long way with the Minister. My question is different: what can we do to ensure that that group of 4,000, and a part that apparently cannot pay at once, is also covered by the 99 regime? 'Cause that's a pretty good amount. Can the Minister give us some advice? What could we do with that so that it can be returned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u54	I cannot advise you on that because, as I said, these are judicial decisions or decisions. criminal decisions taken on the basis of the facts and circumstances in a particular case. I think the separation of powers really makes us respect that. At some point there is a development of law that can make a rule change, that you say socially: we think that that rule was first so and now it has to be so. Mr Van der Staaij said that if I do not paraphrase him properly, he should say that there are things in the penal code because we have to fight them and we have things that are in the penal code because they really go against our principles of society. I say it more cumbersome than he would say it eloquently. We're talking about the first category at the five-foot radius. I would therefore like to say that I leave the relevant amendment to the House. If we go back to the period April-May-June, there was a great need in society on the one hand. And, if you see the ascending infections and such, you may have to make sure we get back into such an emergency. But at the same time there was also a very high degree of uncertainty about and unknownness with the virus and how everything would happen. This meant that we needed to set the fines at that level on 24 March 2020, because we really had to make sure that the rules were complied with. In the meantime, this is how it works in society, and we have clearly said: we think that with the entry into force of this law those fines should be reduced. I have no role in this, let me be quite clear, because that is a real separation of powers. But you must always see in perspective why a particular rule of law has been taken at some point and has been filled in in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u55	I understand that. I also know that the circumstances are taken into account. I have the impression that a kind of situation is being presented as if we are now in a next stage, creating a new situation and that €99 fine plus no judicial note, instead of €390 plus a judicial note, is justified by the circumstances. I find that difficult. I hear what the Minister says. I'd like to study on that for a while, see how else that can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u56	Okay. Then I suggest you move on. Oh, no, I'm sorry, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yes, Mr. Chairman, let me put an interruption on the table. I heard about the week that if you get too close to someone else in the German Parliament without a mouth cap, you get a fine of €5,000. Let me take a look at the now 'hug fine' that we have introduced here in the Netherlands. My own name is also under the amendment, so there is no doubt about this €95. I hear you say, "If you're a relative, you won't be fined." Soon I think that we in the Chamber will also order that whoever issues a ticket should apologize and give a receipt from bol.com. Is it still possible for investigators to enforce rules in this way, which in part I agree with, sometimes unfairly, but in part are also the floor on which enforcement stands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u58	I am someone who always goes very faithfully to the bookstore, because I also like to hear what he thinks I should and should not read, but sometimes I miss that a bit with those online bookstore stores. But apart from that, we have asked a lot of our enforcers in the past year. You can look me in the eye, because I am responsible for that. I think both police and boas have seen very well that we were in an unprecedented and unknown crisis. I do not want to take over our Prime Minister's metaphor, but of course it was a very dark room where we entered. This also meant that the rules and emergency regulations had to be adjusted occasionally or further detailed. That's not easy for enforcers. I think that in many respects this legislative proposal gives a clear catalogue which is very important, and then I come back to what Mr Hijink and Mr Van der Graaf have come up with, although the public health perspective is of great importance, it also makes things possible in a number of difficult and sometimes poignant situations. Why do I say that? Because it is understandable to maintainers that when they see a caregiver, they do not have to do anything. For example, if a person has to enter the hospital, cannot walk on his own and someone helps him, then a enforcer understands that very well. So those exceptions are outlined. They also correspond well to the association you have from a human understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u59	I just want to draw attention to the following. I think that we should give our boas and police a bit of retroactivity with what they can do and what we can do. I am a little afraid that if we very generously exclude all carers I am at peace with the fact that this happens at least on the stairwells in the Netherlands, where our young people are standing, the number of carers immediately multiply even faster than the virus. That's kind of the reality that that cop and that boa have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u60	I dare, especially when I look at Mr Grotehuizen, almost not to go back to the public prosecutor's policy framework, but I just mentioned the point of common sense. A stairwell with carers could be the annual sports day of the association of carers, but we have good enforcement. This is also different from that in Germany, where it seems that you have to go straight to the bank of loan if you are too close to a colleague in parliament. In this respect, we are very much responsible in the Netherlands. This has shown compliance, the huge rates of compliance in the first few months. Mr President, I see that it is time to move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u62	Religion and philosophy. First of all, I'd like to say a few things about the theme of Godhouses. I really want to make a distinction between these weeks of urgency, as my colleague from VWS has put it, and I would like to emphasise this once again:'succeeding figures, even today, and the longer term'. For the short term, the additional national measures were applied last Monday. That's been really tough. This has also been done in the contacts with the various religious and philosophical organisations. There are questions about that and there are concerns. Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Staaij have drawn attention to this, and I understand that. On Monday, a new communiqué was issued from the Interkerelijk Contact in Public Affairs. We are intensively discussing questions that have arisen as a result of this. We will have a detailed follow-up discussion on this tomorrow. Their communication takes place through the domes to their communities. I can assure you that the security regions and the mayors will also be involved in this good consultation. The cabinet is also talking to the various domes about the longer term. For anyone who looks, I want to make it clear that this conversation is therefore being held with the Interkerelijk Contact in Public Affairs, but also with the Central Jewish Consultation and the Contact Body Muslims and Government. So we're talking to everyone about that. We are talking about what we can do to fill out the customization in the coming time as and as soon as we come out of this urgency. I agree that, of course, there are also differences. As a cabinet, we have an eye for that. Right now, I'm having that conversation almost every day to see how we can solve it for the longer term. Mr. Chairman. If you don't mind, I'll finish this. Mr Van der Staaij asked a question about the consultation with the churches. This consultation with all those religious organisations is meant to see what is needed and how we scale up and scale down. I have already told your Chamber that from the beginning of March there have been very good, constructive discussions. This has always led to press releases from the collective religious and philosophical organizations. Every time there was reason to do so, an amended communiqué was issued. I have already said at the beginning that we must continue to do so intensively, especially in this really urgent and difficult time at the moment. Mr Van der Staaij had another technical question. He asked to make an exception next to 58l for 58n. It's about exceptional and acute situations. I quote: 'Fearing the immediate spread of the virus, in which the mayor can give an order to persons to remove themselves from a building'. This should also apply, for example, to this building, the House of Representatives. It's also on the list. It is absolutely not an authority to enter a church building during the worship. Moreover, it does not have the power to enter Parliament at a meeting. That's not in the article either. That would also be contrary to the General Act on Entry. I would like to emphasise this very clearly here. Mr Van Dam asked about the possibility of exemption under Article 58l (5). This possibility of exemption is indeed intended in particular for religious and philosophical organisations. Over the last seven to eight months, I simply noticed that the consultation is always taking place in such a way that they themselves say that they are willing to participate. Eventually, we have to help each other. You know the motto: only together can we control Corona. Mr Veldman asked how we are updating that. I've already said something about that. We're always talking about that. This always leads to its own conclusions from the joint organizations, which they then put in a communiqué. Then I think I have discussed all the issues in this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u63	I see Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u64	I am glad to hear the Minister say that he has been working almost every day since this weekend on the issue of the churches and that he will have further discussions tomorrow. I hear the Minister say that he will discuss with them what can be done in the short term about tailor-made work and that there is also talk about the longer term. I think that's very good. I hope that the Minister will also take note of the care that many of these churches are already doing in shaping the measures. I would like to ask the Minister how he intends to continue to organise discussions on this subject for the longer term. I can imagine that there is a lot of attention every day, but I would ask the Minister to hold close consultations and to inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u65	I have made it very clear that there have been intensive discussions on the questions raised following last Monday's communiqué. We'll have a talk about that tomorrow. That's how we need to see it right now. I also said that I am also talking about how to get customized in the longer term, looking at all kinds of different church environments and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u66	We have already talked about this in Question Time, but I think it is also good for the discussion to consider for a moment that there was a view in churches last week that there was an exception on the basis of the Constitution. That was one. In addition, the hand brake for churches also did not need to be attracted, because they have their things in order and there are few infections. That was the statue that churches went into on Sunday. Then there was a lot of commotion and on Monday there was that very radical measure. Then it seemed to churches as if they suddenly had to scale down radically because the spotlights are on it. It's not just a matter of blackmailing someone, but does the Minister see that this process has made it very complicated to get support for a scaling-down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u67	I'm gonna say it very quickly first: I recognize it. It's very good to say that. Otherwise you get a nice answer and then the viewer says: but wait a minute, what was it now? So, I recognize that. I also explained here on Tuesday, following a question from Mr Kuik, which I immediately had the conversation with the domes last Monday, around the press conference. I have said that we need to discuss further, and I have made it very clear that, because of Article 6 of the Constitution, this is something that must ultimately come from the domes. But last week, in the further communication of the cabinet, there was not a sufficiently clear indication of what I had discussed administratively that Monday. I would like to stress once again that I think it is wrong that it should be cited as a reason. A number of church communities in good faith last Sunday did what they did and held their celebrations. It's not that. I would like to stress once again that this is not the case. I really wanted to say something about that. I find it scandalous that members of such a church community then threatened and I know a lot about people. That must also be said quite clearly and out loud. Here's what I'm gonna do. The urgency of the rising figures and the rather substantial national measures that have been put in place on Monday is simply there. I am talking about this, and I hope I will say this for a moment, because it is a matter of urgency that we are being made aware of and that we can take a moment to reflect on what might have been wrong. Because we have to fight the virus together. The final point. I come back to Mr Van der Staaij's first point. I've already told you that churches are doing their best, with protocols, with a foot and a half, with everything. I have made many visits on Sundays and on other days of God, also at mosques and synagogues. They are doing very well, but there are also a lot of catering entrepreneurs who are doing very well. There's a lot of cinemas, I've been there as well, and mention how many other places, where they're really doing their best. The point is that we have this extra heavy limitation, because the virus is getting worse and we have said together: we have to really reduce the group size, but also the social movements, unfortunately for the time being. That's what I was gonna give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u68	I think that is a good thing and that it also clears the air when the Minister says: that did not go well at all last Monday. But then he continues the conversation and says that churches are accessible after all. I can see that, and I'm sure you will. Today we are still shocked by these rising figures; something must be done. Everyone has to look: what movement can I make to reduce those contacts? But does the Minister also see the point that I am also looking at political meetings and demonstrations where these constitutional rights are at stake, it requires extra care and there is also an additional urge to be able to deliver customised work? Because for that restaurant, no matter how important, you can say: if I can't get to one, then you can go to the other. But if something very rigid applies to an entire community, I may not be able to go to my church for a year. It is not a question of "one may be more than the other," but also of the actual impact of measures. So the question is whether space is also sought in that respect, tailor-made work is offered, in the light of the different constitutional freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u69	Yes. I'm very brief about that. That is not a bad thing, but I think Mr Van der Staaij is right to put it that way. I have another question that is just on the verge of that subject, from Mrs Buitenweg, about associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u70	Shall we do that first, Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u71	I almost started saying that that question hadn't been answered yet, so I can skip that. But I do have another point on Article 58l (5) that Mr Van Dam has also asked questions about, which the Minister has just answered. So that's about an exemption option. Is that just an exemption from group size, or is that also the hygiene rules? That's my first question. And then my question is: why is this exemption particularly applicable to church organisations? Because I think it is important that agreements have been made on how to deal with the threat of the covid virus in a reasonable way. And why is that especially provided for church societies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u72	That is, of course, the next point. This Article deals in paragraph 1 with the closed place, not being a dwelling. Article 6 (1) of the Constitution makes it possible to say something about access to a church in the formal law. But that's what the General Act on Entering is for. Now, if you don't mind, I'm not going to go into that. Article 6 (2) states that the law may lay down detailed rules. That gives the possibility, if you say it is as simple as having a religious or philosophical celebration, to set rules for it under a lower regulation, also on the basis of a formal law. That's what this article's all about. That means that if you open specific things in paragraphs 2 to 4 and offer opportunities to give clues in such a private place, you have the problem of going against Article 6 (2) of the Constitution. It is therefore stated in paragraph 5 that this does not apply to places designated by ministerial rules under the conditions laid down in that arrangement. This means that the ministerial arrangement must be clear on what these conditions are. Whether that's just the 1.5 meter, will depend on what form you come up with as a cabinet, with the colleague of VWS and with the parliament. I have assumed that these are also hygiene measures and so on. I say that through you to Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u73	I'll just wait for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u74	As an introduction, I say that it is true that I graduated from state law in January 1984. It's a little rusty here and there, but I'm gonna try anyway. There is no hierarchy of classical fundamental rights. I also replied to Mrs Buitenweg in oral Question Time the day before yesterday. That does not alter the fact that there is a difference between the fundamental right and the regime. Then there is a difference between churches that I have to call'religious and philosophical buildings' and associations, because that first category of buildings is protected by Article 6 (1) of the Constitution. That also shows that you cannot just enter, because there are all kinds of restrictions on that. We do not have such a limitation for association buildings, but I must say that, of course, Article 8 of the Constitution is about freedom of association. So there's a difference between the two. Mr Van der Staaij has already explained in his first period of interruption that you can in principle arrange visitor numbers for meetings of associations in lower legislation. This is stated in Article 8 of the Constitution. Let me quote: "setting rules." This cannot be done for the sake of the present situation, and we must pay particular attention to associations' meetings. That is Article 9 of the Constitution. For this, you can only arrange visitor numbers in the law itself. This is stated in Article 9 (2) of the Constitution, which has a high degree of analogy, at least in terms of its wording, not in terms of the subject matter of Article 6 (2) of the Constitution. Let me give you an example. For meetings of an association for the promotion of human rights, it is not possible to include numbers in a ministerial arrangement for its members' meeting and the like, but it is possible to do so if that association organises a conference on what to call covid regulation and human rights. This explains Article 58g (2) because there church and philosophical meetings and meetings as referred to in the Public Events Act are excluded. This has to do with the exceptions in Articles 6 (1) and 8 of the Constitution. Let me just say this: we do not include visitor numbers in the law itself, not for divine services, but not for associations. Mr President, I will move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u75	For my clarity, what is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u76	I only have two very small blocks left: security region and state emergency law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u77	I shall go first to Mrs Buitenweg and then to Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u78	First of all, thank you. I thought this was kind of enlightening. I mean, actually I find it annoying and uncomfortable because I see that there are very different rules for churches, while others can also get a lot of meaning and consolation from the union system. But there are separate rules for this, for example when it comes from the Humanist Covenant, but not from the organization as I come from. That remains very uncomfortable. I understand what you're saying in terms of rules. It is true that hygiene measures and 1.5 metres away apply everywhere. So they determine how many people are allowed anywhere, including churches. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u80	As far as Mrs Buitenweg is concerned, I haven't gotten there yet, because I still don't get it. I can understand that part of the law. But if I look purely at the text of Rule 58l, I do not read anywhere that paragraph 5 relates solely to churches. Mind you, I'm from a party that would accept it directly if it was only about churches and churches. That's not what this is about, but I also think we should do it together. If we want to keep that particular value that churchgoers attach to going to church understandable for society, let's just say it like it is, then I think we should also give other people the room to go to things they value. That is why I have read 58l in such a way that other social relationships can also draw up rules which they can, so to speak, submit to the Minister for approval. In the explanatory memorandum to the law, the church is mentioned as an example. But I can also very well imagine that this is perhaps too much for this deadline for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u81	Maybe in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u82	I would very much like that to be clear in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u83	I'm saying yes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u84	Does this also apply to you, Mrs. Buitenweg? You were just satisfied, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u85	No. I have spoken to Mr Van Dam about this before. We were really in misunderstanding about what this means now, especially since an example was given. I thought I'd look it up. It would be nice if we could get a response to this a little earlier than in the second term, because I was thinking about putting forward a motion on this, which could also apply to matters other than the churches alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u86	If the Minister knows an answer in between, he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u87	Yeah, exactly. I understand the point. I listened, but in the meantime I looked something up. Article 58l deals with the mayor's instructions and not with the hygiene rules and the 1.5 metres. They just stand, if you know what I mean. You can't get rid of that with paragraph 5. Then I come to Mr Van Dam's question. It is mainly for the purposes of Article 6 (2) that I say that honestly in the case of 'beneficiary' but it can also apply to other private places..... then I am back to paragraph 1..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So if there is a private place, which is legally so determined, then paragraph 5 would apply. I would just like to say that I have made it very clear from an association building that there is no similar arrangement to Article 6 (2) of the Constitution for religious and philosophical buildings. So that's not a private place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u88	Then I suggest that you move on to the following topic: the security regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u89	Yes. Mr Van Dam had a question about the security regions. The measures provided for in this bill change the role of the president of the security region. This is understandable in itself, because instead of combating the crisis, we are dealing with the fight against the virus in another, more permanent structure. The Chairman may himself exercise the powers of mayors if local decision-making has such a superlocal effect that the Minister of VWS decides that it is necessary for the President to act in order to combat the epidemic. But let me make it clear that these are the exceptions. The Chair shall retain his coordinating and alerting role. He or she receives information about the local implementation practice and directs it to the Minister of VWS. As chairman of the regional policy team, he also has an important role to play in coordinating the municipalities. Furthermore, in general terms, the presidents of the security regions remain responsible for combating the epidemic under the leadership of the Minister of the United States of America. Let me just mention that the President has specific powers under the Public Health Act and he also keeps them, for example with regard to quarantine measures aimed at buildings and means of transport in the event of source contamination. I come to the final point, which concerns the question of the state emergency law of Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Van Dam. The ageing of state emergency law has been recognised and efforts are also being made to modernise state emergency law. That's also reported to your room. Whether an updated state emergency right would have provided the solution to this epidemic and made a temporary law superfluous is an interesting question. You know that the rulers who should initially say 'we should go to state emergency law', the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Security, have said here: in the Netherlands we really are in different proportions and we are not going to go about this. I think that we have really done a huge job together in the period up to June to bring down that virus. I'm sure we'll do that again now. By the way, I would like to say that I will come to the end, President-in-Office of the Council, that the Security Research Council is carrying out a policy review of the law and that this question can certainly be given a role in it. Finally. During the examination in the Chamber, a number of members raised the question of whether you should do a number of things about the Public Health Act, because that law was never set up for this, so long-lasting pandemic. Mr De Jonge also mentioned this. Mr President, these are my points. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you. We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The advantage of being the third speaker is that a great deal has already been answered and discussed. I would like to make a few comments from my portfolio, particularly on fundamental rights and administrative relations. May I underline what Mr De Jonge has already said to me at length in your Chamber's interrupting debates? This is because your Chamber has wanted to make adjustments to this legislative proposal, and we will see that in the amendments that have been tabled, which will allow the entire legislative proposal to pass the test of criticism. Such an attitude by the Chamber is, of course, extremely important in a legislative proposal on which many speakers have pointed out that it has a major impact on people. It's not the law, it's the pandemic and the crisis we're in. Mr De Jonge has explained this in detail. I really want to underline that. I think it is essential for Parliament to say and state that it is involved in determining the content of the measures. If I put it that way on the basis of the Buitenweg cum suis amendment, in part No. 30, this will happen, too. This bill offers us all, everyone in the Netherlands, greater protection of fundamental rights than is actually the case now under the emergency regulation. That's what it's all about, I think. Mrs Buitenweg said that a wide-ranging consideration would be needed. That's right. She asked whether that broad consideration on the part of the cabinet was done. The Minister of VWS is the first signatory of this law, but that does not prevent that broad balance at all. In fact, there are three signatories to the bill, the Minister of VWS, the Minister of JenV and the Minister of BZK. That is how it came about. That means that all three of us, on behalf of the cabinet, fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u92	Is this a brief introduction? Are you going to say anything? Or can I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u93	I'll leave it all to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u94	All right, I'll go to Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u95	The Minister of the Interior is indeed a signatory of the law, including the first version sent to the Chamber. I completely miss the reflection that the Minister of Health showed at the beginning of the debate with the Minister for the Interior. She didn't even mention it in the cases that the Health Minister mentioned and that she underlined. We are dealing here with a minister of liberals, the D66 boss in the cabinet, who is also known as the anarchist of Amsterdam, because she wanted to separate Amsterdam if Geert Wilders would win the elections. She's had a motion of censure from the First Chamber and she's ruined the referendum. I would like to ask: all those cases, those three cases, the anarchist, the one who abolished the referendum and the one with a motion of censure from the First Chamber... He then sends a law to the Lower House that falls completely wrong. She doesn't want to reflect on that. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to reflect on this and also to say how she is assessing the result that is now there and all the way there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u96	May I begin by congratulating Mr Markuszower on the political discipline of the PVV? Although I have never had a debate with him before, I have been allowed to do so with a number of other members of the PVV. They usually say about the same reproach in my direction. That's your right. It just doesn't have anything to do with the bill. In my first two sentences I wanted to say that I fully share what Mr De Jonge has just exchanged with your Chamber. In my second or third sentence, I have also said that I think it is very good and very much appreciated and also important for this legislative proposal that the Chamber has been so extremely constructive, that we have finally come to a legislative proposal or a law, if it is voted on later, which also has broad support from the Chamber. It's also an incredibly important bill. It's also quite unique. None of us have experienced this situation before. We are trying to do justice to working through an emergency regulation through an existing law, the Wpg. So there is no doubt whatsoever about the legal basis, but it goes through an emergency regulation. That was suboptimal after all. We wanted to... Mr Grapperhaus just said: from May onwards, we have made proposals and thought about it. So it has been substantially improved at that time. It has been a search, which is partly normal, namely that you give a law in consultation, send it to the Council of State and only send it to the Chamber in third instance, but in the unprecedented circumstance of a pandemic, of a virus worldwide. Of course, we are learning every day, but we think it is no less important that the way in which we deal with it then fits well into our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u97	You'd say, if it's been said to this minister more often, do something with it. Nevertheless, also by this minister, a first version has been sent to the House of Representatives and a second version of this law has been sent to the House of Representatives. So it does have a connection. The Minister's behavior is not improving. First, she calls for Amsterdam to be divorced if Wilders wins the election. Then she gets a motion of censure because she refuses to make a motion. GroenLinks naturally loves those kind of comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u98	Okay, the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u99	But that doesn't matter now. But the minister didn't do anything about it. The Minister of the Interior, certainly one of liberals, should protect the Constitution. How then is it possible that the Minister will not be able to reflect until the House of Representatives says, through all the amendments, that it is not good? How is it that the Minister of the Interior initially and in the second instance sends such an awfully bad law that restricts the fundamental rights of Dutch people to the Chamber? Can the Minister reflect on her own behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u100	There are a lot of assumptions in Mr. Markuszower's question, but that's okay. As a social-liberal Democrat, I should like to say that I actually welcome this democratic process. Of course, it happens very often that legislative proposals from the cabinet go to the Chamber and are then amended by the Chamber. I think that this is also a bit the basis of the relationships we know in the Netherlands, where the parliament is a co-legislator and the House of Representatives can amend laws. That's a big good. I believe that the cabinet, as Mr De Jonge has also said, has already given a first test of a law for consultation to a number of parties at a rather early stage and has then learned lessons from it. We also said ourselves: what we proposed at the time certainly could be improved. So I think that we have also shown this ability to learn and that this will eventually lead to a debate in this Chamber, where amendments will then be adopted which the cabinet says are, in our view, an improvement in the legislative proposal and are also needed to have a broad basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u101	Finally, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u102	Finally and finally. Of course, it doesn't happen at all often that the Minister of the Interior sends a bill to the House of Representatives that seriously restricts the fundamental rights of Dutch people, that it needs a second version because all the legal scholars and the Council of State say "Minister, what are you doing?', And that then the House of Representatives has to give you 40 amendments in order to make the law somewhat respectable. Again, the PVV still thinks it is a terrible, disproportionate law that we will never vote for. I see a Minister of the Interior of D66 House, where former Minister Van Mierlo would turn around in his grave that such a law was sent to the Chamber. A law that wants to make the Netherlands into half a police state. I advise the Minister: go back to Amsterdam and make it a republic if we win the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u103	These are not 40 amendments but 16 amendments. Amsterdam is a beautiful city, I say to Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u104	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The President has counted the number of amendments very well. Once again, I insist that I appreciate the cooperation with the coalition and opposition parties in this matter. The purpose of the cabinet is to have a broadly supported law. I dare to conclude that we have not been able to obtain the support of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u106	I had stayed with Mrs Buitenweg's question about the involvement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and myself. I think I just answered that. Let us continue with the protection of fundamental rights. The protection of fundamental rights also means that public action, in this case in the fight against the coronavirus, is not without obligation. That, too, is actually an obligation on the part of the government. Article 22 of the Constitution ensures that public authorities take measures to promote and protect public health. That is also an obligation arising from treaties. Public trading also affects other fundamental rights of citizens, such as freedom of movement and freedom of privacy. That is why we have sought, together in a process, where the balance is right, and to create a solid and specific legal basis for measures that balance these fundamental rights. Therefore, requirements for the assessment of necessity and proportionality are also included in the legislative proposal, in line with the opinion of the Council of State. A number of fundamental rights have also been specifically identified where the border lies. House law has already passed, the right to assembly, the right to demonstrations and so on. I would also like to say something about our public administration. I believe that our public administration, especially in the acute phase, in the early months of the crisis, when that virus was taking hold, has shown itself to be extremely resilient and, in fact, very effective. The municipalities, the security regions of course, have achieved an incredible achievement. We have acted very quickly, and I think that at that stage many Councillors, and indeed the people of the country, understood very well that there was no debate for a moment. But I think we have all realised quite quickly that this could not of course remain so, that we should, as far as possible, go back to normal administrative relations. I think we can take that step with this law as well. We are talking now, of course, in the situation in which we see the figures rising, but we are also confident that we will succeed in bending the figures back in the right direction. Then "national if you have to, local customization if you can" is a good starting point. So with this bill, the mayor will be in that position. The mayor will be able to grant targeted exemptions, if the situation permits, only if justified, on the basis of advice from the GGD. It is also possible for the mayor himself to be able to implement measures for certain areas, or if circumstances demand them locally. But the most important thing that I want to emphasise from my position is that there is a debate here on measures, as has just been said by De Jonge, but also in those municipal councils, in all those municipalities in the Netherlands, with full democratic involvement and full democratic control. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of specific questions and a few amendments, and finally I would like to say a few words about the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr Azarkan is not here for a moment, I believe he asked about the burka ban in relation to the mouth caps. Article 58a defines that personal protective equipment includes a "equipment intended to be worn or held in order to protect the individual or another person as far as possible against transmission of the virus." A burqa is not primarily intended for personal protection. So it does not fall within the definition of Article 58j (1). So this situation is no reason to declare the partial prohibition of facial covering clothing inapplicable, because that law is clear, I think. You can imagine that in practice the combination of certain garments, e.g. a headscarf and a mouth cap, would be subject to the operation of the Law partially banning facial covering clothing. That is not the intention at the moment, as the urgent advice applies to wearing the mask, and that specific exception is therefore included. Then there is Mrs Van der Graaf's question about disinformation. Indeed, she said that the cabinet is doing a lot to counter disinformation. She asked how we could take that further on this particular issue. When it comes to disinformation, it is of course always important to emphasise that fundamental rights such as freedom of expression are very important and that addressing disinformation in our countries and democracies is primarily a task of journalism, of science. It's not a government task. We don't have a ministry of truth. But if disinformation can lead to instability, if national security is to be compromised, if political, social, economic instability could arise, then it is very important indeed to contradict that disinformation. There is therefore a role for the government in active communication, especially of our own policies. Indeed, we also see in the context of COOVID-19 that it is very important to ensure that factual information is well and easily accessible to people: health information about the virus, information about public policy, information about the measures. I may also refer to a letter that Mr De Jonge wrote about it. In it he addressed the team of experts, under the flag of the Vaccination Alliance of the Secretary of State. As a think tank, this will focus disinformation on disinformation about the future vaccine. We have to be very alert on those points. Eventually, the people in the Netherlands must be able to appreciate the information that comes to them. But obviously incorrect information can be contradicted and making factual information available is, of course, a core task that we must try to do as best we can. Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a few questions about the municipalities. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked if there would be a playbook for the municipalities. The answer is yes. There's a so-called hand-out in the making. That is also the way we often work with municipalities. The VNG will develop temporary law measures COVID-19 and address the powers which the mayor in particular will have in the new law. So we really want to inform and support the municipalities at the earliest possible stage in the implementation of the new rules and the new way of working. To this end, a support structure has also been created between VNG and BZK together. In this way, we will ensure that the municipalities and, in particular, the mayors are well equipped with the law and will soon be able to deal with the ministerial arrangements. That's what we're really getting into. Mr Van Dam asked how it is promoted that regional differences do not arise between municipalities. I think he was talking about a waterbed effect. It is possible with this legislative proposal to implement measures at regional or local level if the fight against the epidemic so permits. The scaling up and down is done by ministerial regulation, which provides the necessary national direction and framework. This also avoids undesirable differences, I think. In assessing the appropriate measures, national, regional or local, this escalation ladder will be applied. In doing so, you must bear in mind that it is not the intention to move problems, because that would be the undesirable effect that Mr Van Dam appointed. So we have to deal with it in a smart way, so that it doesn't happen. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the powers of the mayors, namely when action could be taken locally again. He also asked if mayors had the right tools for that; I thought he called it that. Local customization can be achieved in different ways. That could already be in the ministerial arrangement. The ministerial system allows for differentiation between municipalities and regions. That already gives room for customization. It is also possible to provide in the ministerial regulation that the mayor is empowered to designate locally the places where such measures apply. He can either turn on or off the rules. In addition, pursuant to Article 58e, the mayor is authorised to grant exemptions in special cases, for example in relation to group bans and events. The bill determines what criteria apply and also provides that the mayor must seek advice from the GGD if he wishes to use his exemption. Mr Hijink asked whether local customization could undermine the whole approach. In the opinion of the Cabinet, the power we confer on the mayor does not call into question the objective of national measures. That's not supposed to happen. Local customisation should contribute to the proportionality of measures in particular cases. That's the on and off button I just outlined. That's a choice. If it's wise to record it, you can do it. If it is not wise to include it in certain situations, you can imagine that. The questions and the answers I am giving now are all a bit interrelated, because it actually depends on the subject and the situation. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked whether the municipal councils had any independent authority or role. First of all, this bill sees a number of things but far from everything! There are all kinds of tasks and powers which lie with the municipalities and thus also with the municipal councils and which can be used. They are also about the consequences of this epidemic. I am thinking, for example, of measures in physical public space, the social domain or the local economy. Those are simply powers that already lie with municipalities. They have that at their disposal and can deal with it themselves. Of course, the city council also has the room to make certain municipal regulations of its own, as long as they are not contrary to the rules laid down by this bill. So that room is there. Let me give you an example. If there is a national ban on the use of alcoholic beverages, a city council would not be able to relax it, but it could be stricter locally, if it considers it necessary to combat the virus. Mrs Van Brenk asked about the influence of municipal councils on matters relating to the security regions. That's kind of the opposite of what Grapperhaus just argued. There is also an amendment to this point by Mr Van Dam c.s. Formally, this is done under the Security Regions Act when the crisis is over. That's the usual way of doing things. At the same time, it sees the situation in which the crisis is not too long-lasting, but this crisis is taking much longer. But the Van Dam amendment c.s. strengthens that accountability relationship. That is good and, as far as we are concerned, an improvement. If the chairman of the security region exercises powers instead of the mayor, the obligation of timely accountability shall apply to the relevant city council. That is why we want to embrace that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u107	I would like to ask for an example to get it sharp. Would the Amsterdam City Council, if this law is applicable, have been involved in the decision on the demonstration on Dam Square, which we all considered necessary? Would the mayor have consulted with the city council on whether or not to allow it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u108	I honestly don't think so, because it's about the mayor in the role of enforcer of public order and security. That's a legal task that the mayor just has to deal with himself. Of course, the city council can always be held accountable afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u109	It might be a good idea to focus on the role of the city council. Because later it's about the Security Council, where municipal councils have indirect influence on it. Does this mean that they have an impact on tailor-made solutions taken in that region?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u110	Let me confine myself to the mayor's role. Some mayors are presidents of a security region, but of course many are not. Not everything is regulated by this law. Think, for example, of the example that Mrs Van Brenn just gave. That was about demonstration freedom. This is regulated by the Public Events Act. So there's just a whole structure for that. This law and the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dam cum suis see precisely the following. Because of the length of time we are dealing with, we are already six months ahead and it is going to take even longer, it is perfectly conceivable that Presidents of security regions should do certain things. It is also quite possible that there is a local need to be able to question the chairman of the security region, who has finally played that role. That's what we're trying to organize right now. That is what the amendment is looking at. I think that's very good. Because if you are not by chance a city council member in a municipality whose mayor is the chairman of the security region, you will of course feel very out of play. In my view, this is being sufficiently repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. I actually only had the appreciation of a number of amendments. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Caribbean Netherlands. The amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Van Raak strengthens the position of municipal councils and has a certain convergence with Mr Van Dam cum suis' amendment that we have just discussed. This is more about providing information to municipal councils and aldermen. We welcome this amendment and we are happy to give it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mr. Van Raak will be very happy about that, won't he, Mr. Hijink?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u114	I'm sure of it. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. I have just said a few words about the substance of Mr Van Dam cum suis. We would also like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 39 has already dealt with Minister De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u115	The amendment in part No. I thought we still had 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u116	The amendment in part No. I don't have 19 here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u117	Has that been dealt with yet, Mr. Van der Staaij, or has that changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u118	It's been revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u119	Withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u120	Oh, that's the amendment. Yeah, that's moved in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u121	Okay. Then I didn't pay attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u122	Finally, Mr President. In addition to the interruption debate with Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Kuik on the Caribbean Netherlands. I thought it appropriate to say before the suspension, including on behalf of Minister De Jonge, that, if we understood the Chamber correctly, the Chamber would have said that it would be good if, by letter of amendment, it could be possible to provide for a regulation in the event that measures for the Caribbean Netherlands are so urgent that the procedure of a ministerial arrangement takes too long. When the amendment was adopted in respect of item No. 30 the safety net provision is deleted, including for the public bodies of the islands. That's why I'm checking. If we have understood correctly, the Chamber would first like to see if there is sufficient support for this, particularly at Bonaire. There is another meeting and we do not know the outcome of that. If we have understood that correctly, our proposal would be to submit the letter of amendment, but that will only be done after this debate, because that will, by definition, no longer be possible during the debate. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u123	Yeah, that's a good summary of what's going on. Indeed, they have a public meeting today at Bonaire about their position and then a majority will have to take a stand. Then Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire have spoken out. If so, the letter of amendment will come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u124	This means that this letter of amendment can only be tabled well before the vote after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u125	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u126	Thank you, Madam President. After two days, we will come to the conclusion of this debate. You could already guess it as a result of the interruptions and the Minister predicted it as well: the cabinet could not convince me. In fact, I am strengthened in my belief that this law lacks usefulness, necessity and proportionality. The huge mess in the run-up to this debate has led to enormous social unrest and therefore reduced support. The cabinet has lost much authority due to the rumblings and also due to the failure of its corona approach. That lack of authority tries to repair the cabinet with far-reaching means of power, which restrict the constitutional freedoms of the Dutch. The Party for Freedom will always stand up for the security and freedom of the Dutch. The PVV will therefore vote against this Corona Act with conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u127	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr President, I apologize. My motion is currently being printed. Do you think it's okay for me to read it, for her to be printed and for me to turn her in to the Registry after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u129	No, perhaps you could switch places with a colleague so you can read your motion at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u130	I'd love to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u131	Then it's settled. I call Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u132	Mr. Chairman. The bill was not good at first instance. Nevertheless, the Minister insists that in the first version he did not want to draw power to the cabinet, but rather to strengthen the position of parliament. I'm sorry, but it really didn't happen that way, not to me and, what really matters, not to an important part of the population, nor to many legal scholars. There's some bullying about Parliament's involvement versus control. Well, that was distinctive. Too little time has been taken for the consultations and the reactions were taken seriously only when there was no other way. The Minister is responsible for the unrest and he blames it. We can see that there is too little critical power about one's own actions. Even though the amendments tabled allow me to underline that, in part, the parliamentary process should not be reduced, nor should the role of the First Chamber be reduced. All in all, the proposal is not sufficiently democratic in our view. Moreover, we believe that the policy of this cabinet, which is moving from one to the next, is not a sufficiently solid basis for criminal law. There is arbitrariness when it comes to measures and when it comes to penalties. This is detrimental to the belief in the rule of law. A far-reaching law is being built on criminal quicksand. And criminal law must be the ultimate means. As a parliament, we must stay far away from that. The fines for the catering industry if rules are broken are disproportionate for smaller restaurants and cafes. The criminal court always takes into account the principle of carrying out the fines to be imposed, and a boa does not do so. An entrepreneur for whom €4,000 is a weekly turnover is not going to make it, an entrepreneur who has a weekly turnover of a tonne increases such a fine on the purchase. Madam President, I made you a little anxious in the first term. I hope to make this up to you now, especially now that you will have to settle for a lot less birthday guests over the next weekend, by not making a motion now. I fear that such a motion would not improve the law anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u133	Thank you. You never scare me. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch. Or Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen first. You found your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr President, thank you very much for your flexibility, including for your colleagues. I have spoken for a long time in the first term, so I will keep it short in the second term. I have one motion and a number of amendments that I have already announced in the draft. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that by far the majority of people who opposed the "corona fine" imposed on them stand without a lawyer before the canton court, thus leaving legal defences undisputed;]] [[Whereas everyone within our democratic rule of law is entitled to access to justice, even if financial resources are inadequate, and adequate legal aid is indispensable;]] [[noting that, unlike in criminal law, people who cannot afford a lawyer themselves are not entitled to legal assistance, except where the Legal Assistance Board makes an exception;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in discussions with the Legal Assistance Council and to ensure that those who oppose the corona fine and legal assistance imposed on them are actively reminded of the possibility that they may, under conditions, be eligible for compensation for the costs of legal assistance if they cannot afford it themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u135	I have a very short question. I don't understand the motion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u136	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mrs. Van Kooten says it's common practice in criminal law that you can get some kind of assistance. This is criminal law, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u138	A lot of people with corona fines stand in front of the criminal court, but there are also a lot in front of the canton court. Twenty-two cases came before the canton court this week. The lawyer present said that the vast majority of the people who are here before the canton court are not legally assisted, while it is a legal argument whether these emergency regulations can serve as a basis for restricting fundamental rights. That's why it's very important that people have a lawyer with them. People who do want a lawyer, but cannot afford one, are normally not entitled to a financial allowance in the costs of a lawyer for the canton court. In criminal law, you automatically get a fee for that if you can't pay it. However, this does not happen with the canton court. With this motion I would like to ask if the Minister would like to discuss this with the Legal Assistance Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u139	Finally, Mr Van Dam. Do you get it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u140	It is clear to me now. I have tabled a motion with my colleague, Mr Groothuizen, to promote the urgency of bringing these cases to justice, but this is just criminal law. The canton judge is sitting there as a criminal. So I understand very well what this motion is about, but it does not make any sense in terms of content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u141	Well, I have understood from lawyers who assist these people that there is a compensation for the criminal court, but not for the canton court. That's why I'm tabling this motion. People can submit a request to the Legal Aid Board to be eligible for such compensation. I'd like this to be widely known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u142	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u143	Several amendments were announced. It can be difficult for the debate if it comes after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u144	That's what I wanted to make, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u145	I hope that this can be done during the debate, so that we can hear the appreciation of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u146	I do not know when these amendments will come in. I thought we were gonna vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u147	I have a few in concept, including the churches. Together with lawyers from the Bureau of Legislation, I am busy putting these together legally. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to present it during the debate. I understand that this is possible until the votes. I'm hoping to send them around tomorrow. I do not know whether it is still possible to ask the Minister what he thinks. At least I will send them around well before the votes. I'm working hard on it, but I'm only on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u148	Does this mean that the cabinet has to respond in writing to the amendments? Let's see how we're gonna do this procedure later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u149	I get the point. I would also very much like the spokesmen and the groups to be able to take a good look at it. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u150	Amendments and motions are also part of the debate. That is what Mr Van der Staaij rightly points out. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mr. Chairman. I have, to put it mildly, a bit of a discontent with the treatment of this law. We see a minister who makes a bad law three times and now indicates that improvements have been made, but it really wasn't that bad. Mr. Chairman. If the Minister goes from a very bad law to a bad law, it is still not good as far as we are concerned. It is really reprehensible that it should cost so many fundamental amendments to achieve something better. It is all changes that the Minister and his officials could have made. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is therefore unjustly satisfied with the proposal that is now before us. Then I move on to our own amendment on mink and other animals that may be contagious. The minister joked that you'd be infected faster by the neighbor than by a mink, but a top officer of the Danish RIVM was a bit more serious about that. He said it's more dangerous to be a mink-fokker than a care worker. Two thirds get infected. And they're just people who take their kids to the schoolyard, go into the pub and do the groceries. I therefore find it really difficult for the Minister to make a caricature of this risk here in this country. Then again on the amendment. The Minister may again try to explain to me why this amendment would go beyond the two motions that have been adopted, because I do not keep getting it. This amendment is nothing more and nothing less than the implementation of the two motions tabled. This really is about creating the opportunity to intervene in other sectors in good time. It's an emergency button that you can press if you need to. As Minister responsible for fighting this virus, you must really have this competence in your toolbox as far as we are concerned. This amendment is absolutely necessary for the further fight against the coronavirus. Let us return to prevention. The Minister insists that major steps have already been taken in the Prevention Agreement. But the Secretary of State for VWS himself has long indicated that these steps are insufficient. That is what he is doing in last summer's letter of Parliament which discussed the progress of the Prevention Agreement. RIVM also came to the same conclusion earlier. They say: what this reign has been done is not enough in terms of health gains. There's just more to be done. So I stand by the same appeal to the VWS minister: what additional steps will be taken if the own Secretary of State says it is insufficient, the RIVM indicates that it is insufficient, 1,600 scientists indicate that it is insufficient and several civil society organisations indicate that this is simply not enough? I don't get it either. Why shouldn't we just do more? It only makes people healthier. I don't keep getting the arguments. Isn't healthier just better? Why shouldn't we set a ceiling on the amount of sugar in soda? Why should we leave that to producers? Why wouldn't we want to make our people healthier? Because if you limit civil rights because of public health, as far as my group is concerned, you are also obliged as a government to act on your own. Not only because you have a constitutional duty to protect the people, but also because you have to offer the people whose rights you restrict the perspective that you do everything you can to keep them as short as possible. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is absolutely not doing enough to make this public. Two short points; then I shall close. Finally, a point concerning the extension of this law. The Minister doesn't want the Chamber to vote on it. Then I'll quote the Batavian state scheme one more time. Maybe I'll make Mr Van der Staaij a little more happy. It also states: "To this represented power all governing bodies are subordinate and responsible." That's absolutely true. Then very briefly. I just got the news that in Germany there are again multiple infections and fireplaces in slaughterhouses. I think this is a very worrying development, as we know that in Germany there are far more controls and measures at slaughterhouses. I am very curious to see if the Minister will be able to respond to this in the second term. As far as we are concerned, the consequences that this may have in the Netherlands are very worrying. There are far fewer measures in the Netherlands than in Germany, and we are already seeing them go wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u152	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Cabinet for the answers to all the questions we have raised as a Chamber. I would also like to thank colleagues for the largely substantive debate I have heard here. I am always surprised at what subjects such a law can give rise to. But that is also interesting for the process we are in together. I have one motion. This motion focuses on state emergency law and has been co-signed by colleagues Van der Graaf, Groothuizen, Veldman, Van der Staaij, Van Brennk and Kuik, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas various publications, as well as the text of existing state emergency law, show that this right is outdated, needs to be up-to-date and must also be applicable to threats occurring in our time;]] [[whereas, in 2018, the Cabinet announced that a legislative proposal aimed at revising state emergency law would be consulted, but that this has not been done so far;]] [[calls on the government to provide the Chamber with an evaluation of current state emergency law before the summer of 2021, including a policy response aimed at updating our state emergency law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Dam, Van der Graaf, Grootehuizen, Veldman, Van Brenk, Van der Staaij and Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u154	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the three rulers for their comprehensive response today. A lot of questions have been asked. As far as I am concerned, sufficient clarity has been provided on a number of points on which we have had discussions. Mr. Chairman. I think we're really taking the Corona Act a step forward. The legal basis and democratic involvement in the corona measures are greatly improved. As far as I am concerned, the fines are becoming more appropriate and there will be guarantees regarding visitation in the care sector. Those are all wins. The special thing about this legal process was, in my opinion, that the coalition and four opposition parties have joined forces and made a better law together. To this extent, I do not think that the conclusion of the VWS Minister is entirely correct. I think he said that this was a pretty common legal treatment. I thought the Minister was a little sparing in that. Mr. Chairman. So be it. The important thing now is that we can move on. I just saw the latest numbers. Unfortunately, the development of the virus makes it not unthinkable that more measures are needed. I would regret it myself if we had to do so on the basis of the emergency regulation, or at least for a long time on the basis of the emergency regulation. You may also see this as an appeal to colleagues on the other side of the Binnenhof to deal with this law as a matter of priority. Of course they are about that themselves, but it would be worth a sweet thing to me if we had this law quickly in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u156	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a good debate on complicated issues. My group, too, will be in favour of this law, if it can reach its conclusion in this way, bearing in mind that there have been many amendments and that we know that they have also received a positive welcome from the government. I think it's very unfortunate and painful that it's necessary. We had hoped that we would say: the crisis is behind us and there is no need for law anymore. Given that the crisis is continuing and that we are seeing the contamination increase again today, we believe that this law is really a step forward in relation to the practice under the emergency regulation. It means more democracy and more rule of law. We've been looking at legal texts here again. We have also seen this in the preparation of this bill on the part of the government. Things like house law come out better in this law than in the way it has been done so far. I believe that this also says something about the profit of parliamentary treatment. I welcome the fact that the ministers themselves have reflected on whatever went wrong in the process. I have to say that working on amendments itself is a bit more lenient when it comes to assessing legislation. You will then also participate in the search for how it is flexible enough on the one hand and solid enough on the other hand. It goes back and forth sometimes. If I speak too loudly about the different versions that have been there, then I should not make a further amendment myself, I would just like to say. Mr. Chairman. One more point is evaluation. The Minister for Justice and Security referred to the fact that there will also be an evaluation of enforcement policy. When can we expect it? And can that aspect of the motion also be taken into account? I am referring to the motion that I tabled with Mr Klaver at the beginning of September and which said: could the role of criminal law in the area of the distance requirement, which still remains somewhat uncomfortable, be reduced in the long term? Could this be included in the evaluation? Finally. How long is this law gonna take? No one knows that, of course. No one knows how long this toolbox is still necessary, but I would still like to hear from the Minister of Health that it is not linked one-on-one to: if only one vaccine is available, then it is good and if it is not, then everything must continue to apply. That is a bit short, but it is, of course, only a means at the end of the day, while the aim is to create a situation that is manageable enough to eliminate the need for these measures. We can also achieve that moment through, for example, better treatments. I would therefore like to see that objective confirmed. Mr President, so much for my second contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u158	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mr. Chairman. I thank the ministers for their answers. As a parliament, we did not go ice in the assessment of this bill over one night. There has been a lot of discussion and discussion about what we consider important to be the basis for carrying this bill. That is why we have also tabled amendments with a number of other parties and, for example, we will also support Mr Hijink's amendment on the safety net provision. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, the bill is not a goal. It is only a legal means of regulating the measures that are being declared in an orderly and proper manner, so that we can discuss them here and so that society can see what we have been discussing, what our opinion is on this and how it should take shape. But everything falls and stands with the framework conditions that are needed to shape this crisis in a good way. Decisions must be made in good time. Smart decisions need to be made, with some predictability to be avoided. There must also be all kinds of conditions for testing and contact and source research, so that this is done properly. Also, you just have to apologize once when it didn't go well. At the beginning of the debate the song "Sorry is the hardest thing to say" was still a bit in my head. You know, if you're managing a crisis, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u160	Sorry seems to be the hardest word!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u161	I'm not saying it all right, but I'm being corrected right away. Sorry! I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u162	English is not my best course either, but my message is very serious. The moment you're in a crisis, you make mistakes with each other. That is inevitable, but at the moment when you only shout that with bravure or that you are unable to take a step back or that you dare not learn from what has not gone well, the damage is only greater. And that is certainly the case when a crisis takes a long time. So we have to do this together. I also see this as a task that we have together, because we do not like any of the measures we introduce. We personally don't like that and our families don't like that and our friends and family don't like that. Our slogan is "we'll do it together," but then we'll have to do it together. I hope that we have laid down a legal basis sufficient for our colleagues in the First Chamber to be able to make the proposal. I also hope for an early discussion there, and I wish the Cabinet every success in getting as much support as possible, because it deserves legislation with such far-reaching measures. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u164	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the three directors for answering today the many questions that were asked yesterday by me and my colleagues. Thank you also for the positive appreciation of the seven amendments I tabled together with seven others. In any case, that will allow the VVD Group to vote in favour of this law. We are not doing this wholeheartedly, I say honestly. We really do that because we have to do what is necessary. With this law, including the amendments, we are increasing democratic control, both here in Parliament and in the municipal councils. We bring the fines back to a more proportionate level, including the consequences, and at least we guarantee the visit to parents and grandparents in nursing homes. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of 'doing what is necessary', I also appreciate the statement by the Minister of Health that if he looks back, it might have been possible to do something different about the consultation version in the approach, and that a slightly different approach might have caused less concern and unrest. I hope that we can take each other further away from the unrest that still exists. I believe that taking that further is best done by converting it into action. For this, I am looking again at the cabinet, perhaps primarily towards the Minister of Health. In addition to this law, which provides the framework for action, it is ultimately a question of explaining why measures are needed, both in scaling up and scaling down. If people understand why we do things, they'll look at them with less care. They will then also comply with the measures we now have to take, because we are seeing almost 6,000 infections again today. You scared me out of the 5,000 yesterday. It's hard and the art is to make sure that the number of infections goes down very fast. This law creates an instrument box, but it is important to be able to see quickly: the law is beautiful, but the instruments are no longer needed, the measures are no longer necessary and the law is no longer necessary in the long term. That's where I think we should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u165	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you, Madam President. In my opinion, it is clear that it would have been better if the power of the House of Representatives had already been anchored in the version of the cabinet. On the other hand, we have now had the opportunity to fight for our position as Second Chamber, and that is always honorable to do. It happened in a special cooperation, because I agree with Mr Grothuizen that this was not a normal procedure. It is normal, I admit immediately, for some sixteen amendments to be tabled. That is not strange for a legislative proposal, but of course it does mean that these amendments involve quite fundamental changes. It was very good to hear during the debate that at least the amendments were broadly agreed. There was even a compliment from Mr Markuszower of the PVV that this would at least improve the proposal legally and democratically. Then, at the end, another consideration can be made, for example, on the need for it, as I have heard correctly. I have also heard colleagues talk about proportionality. I think that these are essential issues. Mr Van Dam said that there is a lot to be said about. But Mrs Van Esch noted that there are also things that you can do earlier, which means that the proportionality and necessity test will work differently. I understand that point very well, but I hope for broad agreement. I believe that this test can always be made with the instrument of the law that is now before us. Once that law is in place, it's easier to talk about whether things are proportional or not. That is what we can vote on. The Minister also acknowledged the importance of predictability and said that we really need to go there. The Irish model or something in that spirit had already been mentioned. I think that is what this is all about, because otherwise there will be far too easy exceptions. This gives the feeling of unpredictability and that is very unsatisfactory for the people who have to step in. So I think that's what it's about. This new situation will also bring much more with us as a parliament. Earlier we had a say, but now we have a say, and that of course brings with it other responsibilities. There is one more thing, but first of all I would like to thank the ministers very much for all their input. Several articles have been better interpreted, but I have remained in the fog about one article, namely Article 58l, and in particular that fifth paragraph. I think the Minister still needs to come back to the exemption that is going to be granted, and then, for example, for churches. What are the possibilities for this and what are its implications if this exemption is given to others? That's what I'm still looking for. For the rest, I would like to thank everyone very much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u167	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have, and I shall be honest with you, been following this debate today with increasing amazement and also with increasing irritation. That's a big part of it. Others have just said that in the way in which the government, and especially Minister De Jonge, looks back on the original version of the bill, shortly before the summer. Mr Groothuizen said that self-criticism is economical. Mrs. Kuik mentioned "bravoure." I had the term "arrogance" in my head earlier when I heard the minister this morning. I do not agree with that, because it is important to recognise that the original bill was simply not good and that it has caused a great deal of misery, mistrust and lack of support. The Minister should have just acknowledged that today, not only that it went wrong in communication, but also that the proposal at its core was simply not good. Now, of course, with the various amendments that have been tabled, the proposal has improved. We fully recognise that. But the question is: is the proposal also good enough? We have had an extensive debate on this, for example on the role of our colleagues in the Upper House. I shall also look at the agreements now on the extension of the law. I do not think it should be explained that this Chamber, but also the Upper Chamber, does not have to give formal consent to the extension of the law. That seems to me to be more than logical. If you have a law that can restrict people's fundamental rights so far, then the extension of such a law includes formal consent. I therefore sincerely hope that I will be able to get colleagues from other parties along with that amendment. That is really very important to us. Mr. Chairman. We are also concerned: can we rely sufficiently on the government's proper handling of this law? I noticed in the debate, particularly after Mrs Buitenweg's amendment was discussed... The emergency procedure, which is still open and the eagerness with which the Minister is already using this emergency procedure to put forward to this Chamber not well prepared measures in advance, but to open the door wide to submit arrangements to this Chamber again by press conference, which we will only be discussing afterwards: that is what we are very concerned about. We have always stressed that a good strategy should be based on proper preparation of measures that are predictable for people, so that you can expect at a certain level of contamination what measures are to be taken. The Minister wants to, but it's been a long time. At the same time, in an important debate like today, he opens the door wide to many emergency procedures once again. We don't like it at all. Finally, I come to my motion for a resolution; I hope that I will be allowed a little over my speaking time. We proposed yesterday that a plan should be put in place to adapt the Public Health Act so that we can avoid this kind of chaotic situation that we have now seen next time. I understand that that sounds weird. Another pandemic may take another 20 years, but we still think it's important that we... Mrs Van Esch has been shaken very hard, because she thinks: with all the interaction between animals and humans, it can be done much earlier. She is absolutely right about that. We therefore want to avoid having to deal with this kind of situation again in another situation. That is why I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the measures taken to combat the coronavirus have been subject to emergency regulations for too long;]] [[noting that there is currently no sound democratic and legal basis for combating a long-term epidemic with major health risks such as this;]] [[Considering that the drafting and draft of the Emergency Act has led to a great deal of mistrust on the part of people and the Parliament and that this should not happen again;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal to amend the Public Health Act so that it provides clarity and clarity in terms of powers to combat epidemics and diseases that are longer and require far-reaching measures in society;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account in this adaptation how to deal with such epidemics as much as possible in accordance with the principles of the democratic rule of law, the minimum possible restriction of fundamental rights and respect for the political primacy of parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35526-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u170	Thank you. Mrs Van der Graaf now has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you, Madam President. I too would like to thank the rulers very warmly for their comprehensive answers to all the questions raised in the first term and also for all the answers given to those, in my opinion, over 600 questions that we, as a Chamber, had asked about this law in the written round. This law has often been referred to as the "failure law," but I think that many laws have been dealt with more quickly in this house. So I don't know if that predicate should still apply to this law. Mr. Chairman. In an interruption I asked Minister De Jonge about the duration of this law. I think it is right to highlight that when this law is passed, nothing changes overnight, and that this law itself does not take any action. However, the law makes it possible, as soon as this is necessary, for the cabinet to come forward with proposals for action. We will then discuss these proposals here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I asked about the role of the dashboard in the consideration when measures can be scaled down. I did not ask the Minister for a prophetic gift, but for an insight into what the cabinet is going to weigh at that time. I asked the Minister about that, and it might be good if he were to go into that again. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the commitments made by the Minister of Justice. He has indicated that enforcement will be shaped in a very human way if I may sum it up in my own words, taking into account the daily situations in which people find themselves. If you go out for a walk with your old father or mother and have to support it, you will not be addressed by a boa and you will not be fined. I'm glad the Minister says he's keeping an eye on that. We await the letter of amendment. If it comes, we can assess it in relation to the Caribbean Netherlands. There is another question I have left out of the first term. It's about the educational activities. On the basis of this law, however, it remains possible to exclude education activities in educational establishments as a whole. I asked whether we should not have an escalation ladder for this, first of all to see if we could take action at local or regional level. I'd like another comment on that. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. If this law is adopted with the amendments, it really is a significant improvement. I said yesterday that this law had to go a long way, but I think that with these amendments, which have also received a positive response from the cabinet, we are really taking a step forward in protecting fundamental rights and strengthening the role of Parliament. At the same time, this is also a call to ourselves. Because if I see it that way and consider what I have heard from the cabinet, then measures, ministerial arrangements, will come to us. This also calls for urgency in our own actions. In the debate we held on the Buitenweg amendment, which I co-signed, we said that it was important to discuss the measures first in this Chamber. So let us also take responsibility for the fact that if measures are to be taken, Parliament will not be the delaying factor to take them. Mr. Chairman. I thank...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u173	...and I'll come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u174	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the ministers, but also the colleagues for their cooperation. We've been working together to improve things. I would nevertheless like to show how social media reacts to this law: seizure of power, monstrous satanic law, Stasiwet, a minister of draconian measures. In short, there is still some work to be done to make people realize that no disaster has happened today. We have agreed that you should not want to have a temporary emergency measure for a longer period of time, because emergency measures are really intended for short-term acute situations and you will be accountable afterwards. Now we want to arrange for us to have influence here in this Chamber in advance, but also in the municipal councils. I am pleased that we have agreed to this. We had a number of objections and they have been removed. The duration of the law has become shorter. There is democracy at national but also at municipal level. We have been informed that there will be no age discrimination. There is clarity about the level of fines. And, most importantly for us, the amendment on visiting rights is actually being done right. Mr. Chairman. We've been talking here for two days. I think we have really substantial improvements. I also assume that we will decide and vote on the amendments before we talk about the law, so that we all know that those amendments have indeed been adopted. To realize once again what we are doing, also the VVD mentioned it: there are again 5,831 people tested positive for corona today. So we really need to do what we need to do with this. That is why I am pleased that we have taken this decision today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. It is true that we shall vote on the amendments first and then on the legislative proposal. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u177	Mr. Chairman. We spent two days debating a law that raises a great deal of resistance in our country. It is an emergency law that is not necessary, which is undesirable, disproportionate and gives the government much more power than is necessary. Moreover, the law is so incomplete that 16 amendments have been tabled to make something of this bad law. Fortunately, most of the amendments are an improvement, but it also indicates what kind of legal monstrosity we had to deal with. Mr. Chairman. The fundamental objection of this emergency law is not that the government is empowered to restrict fundamental rights, but how it is done. Everyone in the Chamber will recognise that it is justified in the event of an emergency that the government must be able to act urgently and take measures, even if that means violating certain fundamental rights. But Dutch law already provides for this. Article 103 of the Constitution provides an excellent instrument for this. In the event of an emergency, the government may declare a state of emergency and then be empowered to take measures restricting fundamental rights. However, an essential element of Article 103 of the Constitution is that Parliament has the power to end the state of emergency at all times. For unclear reasons, the government has chosen not to opt for the freedom-limiting corona measures for the regular instruments of Article 103 of the Constitution, but to introduce a new emergency law. That doesn't have to be a problem. There are several avenues that lead to Rome, but also with the new law it is possible to give fundamental rights restrictions a legal basis. What is striking is that the crucial element of Article 103 of the Constitution, namely that Parliament can end the situation at any time, is not included in the law. The Buitenweg amendment ensures that Parliament has the ultimate decision-making power over the measures taken through ministerial arrangements. That is a good amendment, but the Buitenweg amendment does not refer to Article 8. And with that, in theory, it is possible for the government to extend the operation of the emergency law to an infinite extent without Parliament being able to stop it. That is why, together with Mr Baudet, I have tabled an amendment to give Parliament the last word on the extension. The Minister indicated in the first term that he would advise against the amendment because the Chamber could at any time terminate the operation of the law by means of a motion or an initiative law. I find this worrying, because what he forgets is that the cabinet can always reject a motion and that the cabinet can always decide not to ratify an initiative law. Moreover, it takes a very long time to pass an initiative law through both Chambers. These two options do not therefore allow the Chamber to terminate the emergency law without the government's cooperation. In both cases, we depend on the government's consent. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the amendment I tabled together with Mr Baudet be adopted. Our amendment is exactly in line with the Buitenweg amendment. And the argument for dissuading this amendment does not stand up as far as we are concerned. A major part of the concerns in society would be removed if this amendment were to be adopted, because it gives Parliament the final say. Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to call for a corrective referendum on this emergency law. This would also greatly increase support in society. And even after possible repairs by means of a barrage of amendments, the Forum for Democracy can only vote against this law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u178	Thank you. Mr. Van der Staaij has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u179	I wonder what the member Van Haga thinks about it. He does tell us what another group, the Forum for Democracy, thinks, but I am very curious about what Mr Van Haga thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u180	As you know, Mr Van der Staaij, I am a member of the Forum for Democracy and I am doing this debate on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. But you are absolutely right that I am a separate fraction. So also the Van Haga Group... In my opinion, you should say 'Van Haga' group; it has never been quite clear to me why your party, through Mr Bishop, decided that I should be a group. The voting behaviour of myself in this debate will not deviate from that of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u181	Thank you. I'll take a look at the ministers. I assume there's a need for a short suspension. I hear the ministers negotiating. You guys out? I hear 7.5 minutes? Okay, I'm suspending the meeting for 7.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u182	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the Court's contribution in second term, which was somewhat contemplative in nature. So there weren't that many questions. I think it is a good thing that we have had a thorough discussion of this bill, on which there were many questions. Not least in society there were many questions and concerns, and that is precisely why it is a good thing that we have thought about this and that we have been able to find each other on a serious number of amendments that actually strengthen the legislative proposal and serve the purpose better. Thank you for the way we dealt with this bill. This is particularly important because we will need this bill for a little while longer. The concerns that we have, and which we share with each other, about the increasing contaminations and the rising recordings, mean that we will also need this bill in order to be able to take the measures that we will have to take in the near future in a good, legally sound and also a well-supported way. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the first question put by Mr Van der Staaij, who was asked, so to speak, by Mrs Van der Graaf, who referred to a question she had asked in the first term: until when should we actually take these measures? How long do we really need this bill? Do we really need that vaccine, as Mr Van der Staaij asked, to stop that temporary bill? Mrs Van der Graaf asked not so much for a prophetic attitude of the cabinet as for an explanation: in what way do you look at the bill before us? If I am asked what is the most likely way we are actually going to end this pandemic, then my answer is: I am convinced that vaccination is our best asset. At the same time, of course, we are not sure. We are not sure what all the tests and research developments of the vaccines will ultimately yield. Whether it can be safe let us assume that and above all whether it will be sufficiently effective to end this pandemic in the end. Still, it's our best asset. So my best prediction would be. At the same time, no link has been made in this legislative proposal between a vaccine and the end of this temporary law and the need to take action. I think we should be clear about that, too. Of course, it is also conceivable that the threat of the virus will come to an end in another way. The temporary law and the need to take measures are, I think, more linked to the extent to which the virus is still a threat to us than to the availability of a vaccine. In what way do we judge that? By looking at all those things that we consider important: the extent to which we overload our care when we do not take action, the extent to which vulnerable people are not adequately protected if we do not take action. That's how we look at the necessity of the law. The cabinet will be the first to withdraw the bill when the need for the law has not been demonstrated. It is not for nothing already in the naming a temporary law baptized. We hope that this temporary law will be as temporary as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question that Mrs Van der Graaf asked about education. Education activities can be completely shut down, but that is, of course, an ultimatum remedium. Can we also work with an escalation ladder there? Yes, we want to include education in the elaboration of the Jetten motion: when do you take what measure? I think we learned from that first wave, too. In particular primary education, but also secondary education, we would like to keep it open as long as possible. I think we share that. You can also see that, particularly in primary education, the risk of contamination is actually very low. Primary education is simply not an engine in the spread of this virus and the damage is of course very large if you close the schools; it is huge. In the superstructure of the vo you can already see that infection, but especially in the age categories on the mbo, the hbo and the wo you see infection. You don't see a lot of young people going through a serious illness; it's not like that. But you can see more spread of the virus there, more infections. There is also more of a supra-regional function, so that such an educational institution can actually perform a hub function in the spread of the virus. Hence the logic that, in a situation where you will have to close down, in the last place think of primary education, in the second place think of secondary education and much earlier think of the MBO, the HBO and the wo. In what way do we intend to do that, even in the escalation, we will work out in the elaboration of the Jetten motion. We'll talk to your room about that. Of course, before we take such a measure later, there must be a proper ministerial arrangement which you then agree to. Because that's the new way of working. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the SP motion. In fact, the motion calls for a proposal for the adaptation of the Wpg in order to clarify the powers in the fight against the next crisis. I think you're asking us a little over. What we will certainly have to do is keep the Wpg well against the light. I also think that we should involve the evaluation of the OVV in this. We have, of course, asked the OVV to evaluate the response to the crisis. In dealing with the crisis, of course, it will also include the powers of the cabinet, as well as the powers of the parliament, as well as the speed with which action can be taken. All of these seem to me to be adequate questions for evaluation. I assume that we need that evaluation in order to achieve an adequate adjustment of the Wpg. That is why I would like to discourage the motion in its present form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u184	I understand, however, that the Minister is now saying: let us fight the virus first. I think that's right. I am not asking him in this motion to do this next week, in a month or even in six months. I just want it to happen. If the Minister says that there is a need for a comprehensive assessment, I agree, but this should be done afterwards. If we could look at it that way, this should, as far as I am concerned, be just as easy to get a ruling from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u185	Yeah, but then we're gonna read the motion a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u186	We're not gonna read until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u187	Well, no, then we're gonna read it better as far as qualifications are concerned. Because in the qualification she is very disavowed about working with emergency regulations. I think that working with emergency regulations at the beginning of this crisis has just helped us very well and could possibly also help us in a future crisis, if it does not last so long. This has become problematic, particularly as a result of the long-term continuation of the crisis, and this temporary law is necessary. It is not that I am opposed to an adaptation of the Wpg, of course not, but the right order of things is: we are going to evaluate it and if that evaluation gives rise to the adaptation of the Wpg, then I will be heartfelt for that. But I think we should do things in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u188	Can't I just ask the Minister to be a little more generous here? It is noted in the recitals "that the measures taken to combat the coronavirus have been implemented through emergency regulations for too long." I think that's why we're here. It's not a tragedy to take over, is it? The reason why we are here is because we believe that this is not sustainable in the long term. That is why we now have these temporary measures. This is a temporary law. I read Mr Hijink's motion in such a way that it is good to see that, even after we have done the evaluation, we must have a better framework for the next time we are most likely to be confronted with it. It seems to me to be a fairly reasonable motion, especially now that Mr Hijink has said that this is not something for now and that we are still waiting for the evaluation. What the Minister is now being asked to do is to recognise that we are likely to face more epidemics in the coming years and that it is good to prepare ourselves for this, including through this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u189	Yes, Mr. Chairman, what do you need after such a plea? Well, let me take a more benevolent look at it. I really do insist that we do the evaluation first in the order of things. Of course, you must also say to each other that we do not know what a next crisis will look like and that working with emergency regulations as such is not a wrong way of working. A subsequent crisis may indeed in another way require powers and the possibility to take action through the Public Health Act. If I can see the motion in such a way that we are going to do the evaluation first and then, if that evaluation gives cause, we will adapt the Wpg, then I will indeed leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u190	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u191	A boundless kindness of course for this Thursday afternoon! Anyway... Then I'll look at what I have to answer. There are still a number of questions from the Party for Animals. I do not think we should repeat the debate on the amendment on mink, because then the President will really intervene. We are not getting closer to each other on that point. Then the abattoirs in Germany. I haven't gotten the message yet, but I'll, of course, keep an eye on the coverage. That's how we always do it. And if that is a reason to do other things in the Netherlands than we have done so far, I honestly do not know. And as far as prevention is concerned, I think, frankly, that we are really much more in agreement than you think. I, too, am very much in favour of greater commitment to prevention. I think that is necessary for the longer term. This is necessary to keep care sustainable, to keep it affordable and to become healthier with each other. So I very much agree with a greater commitment to prevention. What I sometimes oppose is when there is a one-on-one link between an individual measure in the field of prevention and the idea that it will prevent all kinds of coronas victims tomorrow. That is simply a simplification of the reality we are in. However, we are very much in agreement with the need to step up the fight for prevention. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u192	Only, Mrs Van Esch has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u193	I have two very short questions. The Minister's answer seems to me to be as if I were saying that prevention would solve the corona crisis right now. I don't want those words to be put in my mouth. Because I think we're constantly trying to point out that we want to avoid things. So I'd like to straighten that out. And I wonder if the Minister has looked at the amendment that has just been distributed. That should have ended up on the table with him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u194	There's two of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u195	That is the amendment to item No. 44 and there is also an amendment to item No. 43 by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u196	They were distributed during the second term. I do not know whether the cabinet has had time to look at it and whether the minister can comment on it now. Otherwise, they will be included in the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u197	Would you be okay with that? Yes, we would like to return to that in writing. Then I now have to thank the Chamber. But I would also like to thank our officials who have already replied to 600 questions in writing, which, of course, have already done a great deal of work before that, in several versions. So I would very much like to thank our people from this place for all their good and many work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u198	Thank you. Thank you, too, for answering the questions. Then we'll just wait for the cleaning to take place. I don't know who the next speaker will be. Is that the Minister of Justice and Security or the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations? I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security. Minister, I'd get rid of that mask!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u199	Well, I'm sticking to it. And in view of what I hear Mrs Kuik say about compensation outside the microphone: first get your English quotes in order! Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mrs Buitenweg's question on the scope of Article 58l (5). Article 58 (1) deals with the private places and the responsibility of the owner or administrator for them. That is the one who has the authority, and so on, to make provision there for the fight against the corona epidemic. Then that article says in paragraphs 2 to 4: if something does not happen there, you can give clues. And then we come to paragraph 5. That member will then be able to exempt under ministerial rules from the possibility of a designation being made by the mayor. I would just like to make it clear that, in order to be eligible, all the conditions, such as the hygiene rules, the 1.5 meters and so on, must be met. At least the distance rule, I have to say very carefully. And if that exemption is to be granted, it must be assessed in due course. That goes by ministerial arrangement, that is the cabinet with your Chamber, and applies to all private places. In the explanatory statement, the churches have been mentioned specifically as an example because of the communiqués we have already discussed. But I would like to stress that a private place is also, for example, a private building of an association. If an association complies in all respects with all hygiene rules and so on, the Minister may not, in agreement with your Chamber, declare in a ministerial arrangement the power of designation provided for in paragraphs 2 to 4 applicable. I would like to make it quite clear once again with an example. When an association meets in its own closed building, it is a private place. However, if she hires a space in the RAI in Amsterdam to give a congress or to celebrate an anniversary or something like that, that is not a private place. That's just an explanation. I would like to take a careful look around, but I think it was important for the Buitenweg Member to confirm for a moment that this is not only true for the private buildings, which are religious or philosophical buildings. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the motion on part number one. 42 of Mr Van Dam and others on the request to send an evaluation of state emergency law for next summer. I would point out that an evaluation of the temporary law has already been announced and that there will be a policy evaluation of the approach. And then there will be my own evaluation of enforcement. I'll get to that in a minute. They will, of course, have to respond well to each other, but I will still leave the judgment on that motion to your Chamber. Mr Van der Staaij had a further question on this point. People are eager to work on the whole enforcement review with all the parties involved. The outcome should come to you early next year, early 2021. It should also be made clear what the impact has been, I said it in the first term, but I would like to stress the need for compliance. Then one can say whether it is wise to scale down the criminal law approach. Mr. Chairman. Then I had an amendment to part No. Forty-three of Mr Azarkan's members I do not see him in the Chamber for the purpose of intervening on a large number of individual matters. I would point out once again that it is not in the context of the separation of powers and I am going to intervene in cases in which the judge has made judgments. I say that very carefully. I really think it is something of the judiciary, or of the prosecutor's office, when it comes to criminal decisions. I hope your Chamber agrees that it should be just that part of the separation of powers. I would like to add something to that, and I am sorry that Mr Azarkan is not here himself, Mr President, because I would have liked to speak to him through you. The amendment does not make any differentiation, and we must realise that there are also a lot of fines that relate to people who spit on and threatened enforcement. We have just said that they are not in the category for which the judicial documentation would no longer apply. Furthermore, I would also like to say honestly that there is no substantive justification for this, other than suggested unequal penalties. But now I'm gonna be the lawyer and I'm gonna say, "You gotta go see where the inequality is and the like." That is why the amendment is missing. I will leave it at that, otherwise it will be a very constitutional college. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's amendment. I really sympathise with the idea, which I would like to emphasise, that suspects should receive legal aid in complex cases relating to the criminal decisions for corona fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u200	Do you mean an amendment or a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u201	A motion. Did I say amendment? Excuse me, my mistake. It's the motion in part No. 41. I have sympathy for that, but they can, as I said, refer this matter to the Legal Aid Council. They do that really consistently and with expertise. I would just like to say this on behalf of Mr Dekker, whose responsibility lies with the Council. It is not up to us to intervene. I must therefore discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u202	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u203	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mrs. Van Kooten, very soon. A brief question about your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u205	I would like to change something about the motion because it contains a factual error. In the last observation, I would like to replace the phrase 'other than in criminal law' with 'in canton cases at first instance'. Well, that makes sense. I would like to say to the Minister that I would be delighted if he would at least undertake to have a discussion with the Legal Aid Council in order to make that more widely known. People can actually request that, but a lot of people don't know that. The fact is that by far most people who challenge such a case are alone in court without a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u206	The Van Kooten-Arissen motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that by far the majority of people who opposed the "corona fine" imposed on them stand without a lawyer before the canton court, thus leaving legal defences undisputed;]] [[Whereas everyone within our democratic rule of law is entitled to access to justice, even if financial resources are inadequate, and adequate legal aid is indispensable;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights,]] [[calls on the Government to engage in discussions with the Legal Assistance Council and to ensure that those who oppose the corona fine and legal assistance imposed on them are actively reminded of the possibility that they may, under conditions, be eligible for compensation for the costs of legal assistance if they cannot afford it themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 41 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u207	Mr. Chairman. By discussing this and making it widely known, I am really going to go into the area of the Legal Assistance Council. I shouldn't go there at all. Let me put it this way: I assume that this debate has also been followed by representatives of that council, who can draw their own conclusions from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's appeal. I think that's much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u208	Thank you. Then we'll just wait for a change to take place. No? I understand the Minister of the Interior has not received any questions. The motions have all been reviewed. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u209	Do not run away, because I would like to close by saying that next week we are going to vote on the motions, amendments and the legislative proposal. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament very much for their careful handling of the laws related to corona, despite the lack of support and despite the fact that these laws had to be dealt with with with steam and boiling water in the Chamber. Thank you very much for that. Thanks also for the fact that everyone has worked together in this way. I would like to thank the directors and the people in the public gallery. I think a lot of people have also followed the debate through the livestream. Thank you for that, too. I would also like to thank the messengers and the officials.
