ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr Verhoeven is coming in; that was a long time ago! And the Home Secretary is here again. Welcome! It's good to have you back. The next item is the amendment to the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017, Room 35242. Of course, I would also like to welcome all the other Members of Parliament, as well as the people who are following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD. Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Parliamentary oversight of the security services is a great asset. The Netherlands was even the first country with a committee to oversee the then Homeland Security Service. Under then Minister of the Interior Louis Beel was established the permanent committee for the Homeland Security Service. Members of the committee became the group chairmen of the five largest parties in the Chamber, and for the future the President of the Chamber would prevent the chairman of the Communist CPN from joining the committee. It was the world's first parliamentary committee to oversee the secret services. Similar committees took place in Germany after 1956, in the United States in the mid-1970s and in France and Great Britain only in the 1990s. In 1966, the committee was given its current name, the Intelligence and Security Services Committee, popularly called "the committee secretly." Mr. Chairman. Supervision of services matters, but the services must also know what they are committed to and what scope they have for their important work. The new Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017 has adapted the oversight and regulation to the developments of the current time. This law has been debated for a long time and a referendum has been held on it. The present amendment codifies the outcome of the referendum. Before responding to the law, I would like to express my thanks to all the men and women of the General Intelligence and Security Service and the Military Intelligence and Security Service. Their work is often invisible, sometimes in distant countries, and sometimes dangerous, for the safety of the Netherlands and its inhabitants, and it is important for the rule of law, because undermining that rule of law can be detected and addressed at an early stage. On behalf of the VVD, thank you for that. The legislative proposal now before us makes supervision clearer, but also clearer. For the VVD that is a good step. What I do have a question about is the workability of this law. I would like to ask the Minister how the supervision and limitations of the commitment relate to the tasks of the AIVD and the STUDY. To what extent are our services now well verifiable and should they be subject to ex ante verification on some parts, but does this testing and testability have an obstructive effect on their work? For example, how well can our services still work with foreign services, under the conditions that exist now? Is this law a restriction on the employability of our services? Because a lot of intelligence work is done by other, often foreign services. Often there is an exchange of knowledge to get the full picture needed for our services, the AIVD and the STUDY. Do the foreign services still see us as a good partner, with which exchange of information can happen quickly, but also carefully? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Madam President. It is now more than two years since we had a referendum in the Netherlands and the voters have spoken out against the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. The social debate that took place in the run-up to the referendum showed that many people were concerned because the services were given too wide powers, potentially leading to an over-infringement of civil liberties. You also noticed during the discussions that there is broad recognition for the incredibly important work of the intelligence services for our security. That is what my colleague said, and I am happy to endorse it. My group would like to underline this. However, there are genuine concerns, including the ability to access mass information, the so-called "drag network' and the ability of services to share a bulk of unread information with foreign services. First of all, my question to the Minister is whether she really believes that the amendments proposed here do justice to the concerns expressed in the referendum. Look, of course, it is already a gain that something changes, because it was said in advance that regardless of the outcome of the referendum, the law would simply go ahead and I am looking especially at my colleague from the CDA. But does the Minister now have the impression that the authors of the referendum or the voters, the majority of whom voted against, are sufficiently satisfied with the changes? If so, what does it base it on? People's trust in the services is crucial, because many security risks only come into view because a family member, a friend or someone near a potentially malicious person tips the services or perhaps first steps to the district agent. They volunteer to ring the bell because they're worried. Those sources dry up if there is any doubt as to how the services use their powers. I therefore consider it very unwise and damaging that the law has been introduced so quickly. The no had hardly sounded or with a few amendments the law came into force, while legal protection was not guaranteed. I quote the CTIVD, our supervisor: "essential safeguards for the legal protection of citizens still lack, in whole or in part, their content in internal policies, work processes and the establishment of technical systems. Instruments for mandatory internal control are lacking and therefore effective external supervision by the CTIVD is still not possible." How is it possible for new far-reaching powers to be introduced, which are controversial, and not to ensure that the work processes are in order? When exactly did the Minister see this coming? Was that before or after the introduction? In preparing this debate, I have reread the WRR report Big Data in a free and secure society, and I can recommend it to anyone. It shows how we in the Lower House treat law neatly after law, but fail to see how laws interact with one another. As a result, we often end up with systems, according to the WRR, which were probably never approved at all. I think that's what's going on here, too. That is why I will refer to two other laws that are now before us in the House of Representatives. I hope the chairman will allow that. One of the new powers of the services is that for so-called research mission-oriented interceptions, the Eye, the towing nets. In practice, the services do not yet have this competence. That's why there's not much to say about how it's working out. But to use this power, permission is required from the Minister and the TIB supervises. These are much-needed safeguards to prevent too easily too much data being collected with a major impact on human rights. But these safeguards do not apply if an entire bulk of data is obtained by another way, for example through hacks or through informants. I find that inimitable, and I think that is wrong. Here I would like to take a first trip to another law, which was submitted last week, namely to oblige telecommunications network providers to provide traffic and location data to the CBS, which then, in turn, edited them somewhat, to the RIVM. The explanatory memorandum states that the information provided by the providers to the CBS shall not be disclosed by third parties for the purpose of preventing traceability of the data. So we are talking about data that is potentially traceable and that is in the hands of the CBS. Now my question is: what are the safeguards in case the AIVD approaches people at CBS and/or telecom providers with the demand to provide the services access to those automated files? What are the safeguards if an informant there is willing to provide that information on request? Then the AIVD uses a general power to obtain bulk data and the AIVD does not have to ask the Minister for permission and there is no supervision of the TIB. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. I want a very clear answer to this, because I believe that the laws combined make it possible for the data that are going to be collected about us all to be used by the services without the Minister's prior knowledge. This shows that the impact on our civil rights must be guiding in determining the safeguards and not the way they have been collected. Also the supervisor, the CTIVD, thinks so. To settle this, I have tabled an amendment, and I hope for broad support for it. Mr. Chairman. Then a little trip to another law. The Minister of Justice and Security said in September last year that he wants our intelligence services to work with benefit agencies and municipalities to tackle drug crime. The services themselves do not seem to want that at all, but that is what our Minister for Justice said. The police, the Tax Administration, municipalities and private parties, such as energy companies, need to share more information with each other and the framework law for cooperation is now in place. But is it indeed possible, or is it possible, that I should like to know from the Minister that the AIVD provides information to these partnerships? Is there a legal legal barrier or is it in principle just possible that information obtained by the AIVD from interception or through hacks or informants will play a role in these partnerships? Mr. Chairman. Then sharing information with foreign services. My group understands that it may be necessary to share data with services from other countries. We are pleased that it has been accelerated to draw up weighting notes in order to better weigh what information can or cannot be shared and with which foreign services can and cannot. We are also positive that when unevaluated data is shared, the CTIVD is informed so that research can be done. But we do have very big concerns, especially because we just don't know what data is in the databulk. That's the whole idea with unevaluated data. Does the Minister recognise that there could be information that could endanger a human rights activist or reveal a journalistic source? And what do we know about what the foreign services are going to do with the data and who they can share it with? That brings me to the questions about supervision. What is the CTIVD testing anyway? Will the CTIVD find out about the data and will the CTIVD be informed about who the foreign services share this data with? The Minister has an important role to play in this, but on what grounds does she actually assess such a request? In collecting metadata through research assignment-oriented interception, the Minister's consent is not only required, but also supervision by the TIB. But if those data are then forwarded to a foreign service, the TIB is out of play. That is illogical and unwise. I would remind the Minister that it was precisely the transfer of data to foreign services that was a reason for many citizens to vote against in the referendum. Is it open for an additional test by the TIB? Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions. First of all about the satellite station in Burum. This station is being moved abroad. GroenLinks is concerned about what this means for the intelligence position of the Netherlands and for our place at international tables, which is sometimes obtained on the basis of that. It will have consequences for that, I ask the Minister. And are all the work that will be done through that station in the future and all the information obtained also all within the scope of the Wiv? Should there not be a treaty between the Netherlands and the country concerned to ensure the position of our services in that country and the protection of the information obtained? If so, how will it be dealt with in a parliamentary capacity? Finally, the threat level in our country has been reduced by the CTIVD from 4 to 3. That has led to cuts in the AIVD before. In the years after that we sat with the baked pears because the knowledge and experience were no longer available when needed. Can the Minister confirm that a lower level of threat will not reduce the budget for the work of the services and for essential supervision? And, according to the services, is the level of the budget currently really appropriate for their important tasks? I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr President. It's great to be back here in these careless days. I'm glad the Minister's back. We missed her for a long time, but I'm glad she's back, healthy and well, in blazing prosperity. I and my group are very pleased about this. My group counted the days. Mr. Knops did a pretty good job of that, but it's not the real thing anyway. Mr. Chairman. It's been a while since I've been in this room. You're gonna miss it anyway. By the way, a big meeting took place on the Dam of all left-wing people on Sunday. There there were plenty of viruses spread, fearing virologists; a superspreading event. Mayors would like to quarantine all participants in that meeting for two weeks. I hope you have sufficiently disinfected all the left-wing people in this building today. Mr. Chairman. I'll keep it short and pointy. I assume that the Minister must return to the department as a matter of urgency for the completion of a letter of resignation to the Mayor of Amsterdam. I won't keep her there any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	I didn't understand the corona virus was racist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Minister has been told that in her absence I would have liked to have tabled a motion of censure against her on her fake news case, which turned out to be wrong at all. I would also like to reiterate the constitutional objection that I have raised against the fact that we have had two Interior Ministers for months. After all, Mrs Ollongren has never resigned and Mr Knops has taken office. That's not how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	Perhaps a point of order, because there are a lot of things that I do not think have anything to do with the subject. That's possible; that's open to everyone. It's a legal procedure. But I think it is a good idea to come to a point that is on the agenda, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	Well, I'm working on that. Minister Ollongren wasn't back yet or she started doing something she did before, namely politicizing the secret services. Two weeks ago she sent a letter to the House of Representatives, in which she said that according to the AIVD Russian narratives about the coronavirus are shared in a number of Dutch social media groups. The Russians would try to emphasise that there is a division in Europe in the fight against the corona virus. When you do that, you share a so-called narrative, as it is called. I do not think it is a secret that there is great division. A blind horse can see that. You don't have to be on the Russian secret service payroll for that. I think that is wrong, because Mrs Ollongren often does that. We saw that, for example, with the whole story of the fake news. That did not appear to have the beginning of any support. Even then, it was the Russians. After months of research, the University of Amsterdam had found nothing. Nothing, nada. I'm freaked out that the Secret Service gets so much into politics. That's not what Secret Service is for. That's dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	I'd still like to start from the beginning. I have had many debates here with Geert Wilders about corona and I just don't understand it for a moment. Do I understand what Mr Bosma is saying? The fraction of the PVV has spent weeks telling us that this 1.5 meter doesn't make any sense, that you have to throw open outside the restaurant tents and sit close together. Now there's a demonstration of people expressing their fears about someone else being shot in America; they're afraid that's happening here too. People have fear of being treated in the wrong way, based on their origins. Am I to understand that even that position will no longer stand? Does Mr. Bosma say "it's really bad" and "that spread can happen in the open, outside"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	Well, it's about to become some sort of corona debate, Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to join Mr Bosman in saying: let's get a little... Yeah, what the hell is that? Then we're gonna turn it into a corona debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yeah, then the hypocrisy becomes really shocking, what the PVV is doing here. You can't say "This is a position of the PVV: nothing happens in the outdoors; just throw all the tents open," and then take this view down when a group of people stand up against racism. Hypocrite. My fellow Members point out that this is not a point of order, and that is what Mr Bosma himself brings in. He says, "I really don't want to talk about this anymore." That's just running away from your responsibility, Mr. Bosma. Answer the question! What is the position of the PVV? Is it true that there is spread outside or not? Or only if they happen to be groups of people demonstrating against, among other things, the racist language that Mr Wilders speaks here in this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	Of course not. It has nothing to do with the content of the demonstration. But there's another corona debate tomorrow. You've signed up. Then you can get rid of your egg in the field of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	Please continue. Oh, no, Mr. Van Raak wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. To my great regret, Minister Ollongren is always politicising...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr President, you gave me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	Yes. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	It's not about corona, it's about another statement that bothers me. Mr Bosma says here: 'People with a left-wing political preference must be disinfected here at the door'. Is that what Mr. Bosma just said? He said, "Keep the Minister or take the President into account..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	No, I meant...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	Let me finish! I have the floor. Left-wing people coming in here. Ronald van Haak coming in here. When I come in here, Mr. Bosma says I need to be disinfected. Is that what Mr Bosma says?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	No. I was talking about the participants in the meeting that mayors say they should be quarantined for two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	No, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Bosma said to the President or to the Minister, I do not know: 'There are also left-wing people in this Chamber.' I, Ronald van Raak, am here, yes. Does Mr Bosma say that if I come through the door here, if I come into the room, I must be disinfected? Is that what Mr Bosma says?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. To my great regret, Minister Ollongren regularly politicises AIVD targets by coming up with things that always fit within the D66 agenda. If you criticize the EU, you'll be talking to the Russians. That is in line with the ideas of her party, which Russia always sees as the Evil Empire. For example, on China, Minister Ollongren flies a lot less often with AIVD reports. But also, for example, about the referendum on this Intelligence Act. She deliberately withheld information at that time. She received an explosive report from the CTIVD. Its content was dramatic. It was about sharing data with foreign services. There were insufficient safeguards for this. On two points, there was even structural injustice. The CTIVD sees numerous risks, but this information was not shared with the voter. There's a lot of political activity with intelligence, and that's wrong. That is all the more wrong because, as Members of Parliament, we are, by definition, lagging behind in monitoring the secret services. Secret services are classified and we can't go in there. We found something on that: the CTIVD. My group is particularly satisfied with this, but there is no direct control. Mr. Chairman. This law has a very long history. The Intelligence and Security Services Act dates from 2017. The law was voted down in a referendum. Yeah, we had a referendum back then, Mr. Chairman. The people spoke and said: the law must not come. And what happens? The law's just gonna be there. Strange, because there is something quite different in the referendum law. I quote Article 11: 'After rejection, a proposal of law will be tabled as soon as possible, with the sole aim of repealing the law'. It's weird that the law hasn't been repealed. Instead, we get a number of insert sheets. In fact, we only get a part of an insert sheet, we understand. The Council of State quite rightly writes: "Some of those commitments"....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So some. What's the deal with that? Are we dealing with some kind of semi-finished business today? Does the Chamber get anything played and the rest of it comes later? How does that relate? Do we get 90% of the total or 10%? I like to hear that. Mr. Chairman. Then let's see all the changes. I think they are wonderful from time to time: "In Article 49, first paragraph, "the exercise of jurisdiction shall replace "the exercise of competence' by "the exercise of power'. I also find change H interesting: "In Article 50, first paragraph, point (a), a comma is inserted after Article 48a." And: "In Article 107, second paragraph, "the requested person shall be replaced by "the requested person'. The difference is a d and a t. Well, that'll grace the writer. Mr. Chairman. Much more important matters have still not been settled. We MPs depend on the CTIVD. In the letter sent along, the Minister states: "When exchanging unevaluated data, this is the raw data with a foreign service, the CTIVD is immediately informed so that it can monitor it. In addition, it has been decided that foreign services for which no weighting note has yet been drawn up do not share unevaluated data obtained from eye interception on the cable. This will be laid down in a policy rule." But now the CTIVD, the committee that controls the intelligence service on behalf of the House of Representatives, concluded in report number 60 of late December 2018 that the weighting notes were all rattled. No weighting notes should mean: do not share. You can't start sharing information all of a sudden if you've got naughty weighing notes. That makes perfect sense to me. Strangely enough, that law was introduced immediately. In fact, we have rarely experienced a law being launched so quickly. The CTIVD also writes: "The research shows that for both the AIVD and the STIVD there is still a way to go before the weighting notes for the leading group of international cooperation partners are up to date. All weighing notes need improvements to a greater or lesser extent to provide a good understanding of the risks of cooperation." That's a big deal. The CTIVD also writes elsewhere: "Effective supervision is impossible." That is a very bad thing with the democratic control that we as a Chamber must have. And yes, "a way out," that just means that it's badly arranged. At present, there are few firm guarantees regarding the exchange of information. This is also about the criterion of orientation. We owe this to our former colleague, Mr Recourt, who tabled a motion on this subject. In the explanatory statement we see very few guarantees. Are all the changes we are getting, which we have received and which we are going to get, as we read in the opinion of the Council of State, in line with the outcome of the referendum? Does the Minister think so? Then, indeed, a new development: the AIVD will play a role in the fight against drugs. That is something that I am very seriously scratching behind my ears, because it is going into a completely new world by the AIVD. Minister Grapperhaus launched that. It actually came out of the sky fairly well. I don't know if the services themselves are so eager. It's a completely different world with totally different laws. An even more elusive world if possible than in which the AIVD is already active. That law just came into force. The whole fight against drug crime never came up in the discussion, when we had very long debates with Mr Plasterk. I'd be happy to think back to Mr Verhoeven's cooperation. But we have never talked about the fight against drugs, and the AIVD must play a crucial role in this, because there are so many ways of working together against all kinds of bodies. Do we suddenly have to judge that law in a completely different way? That's what I like to hear. Then sharing data with foreign services. Of course, that remains a hot issue. Is there any view of reuse? The Dutch services have data. Somehow, in any way, they got there. This is shared by foreign services. But then what do these foreign services do? Is there any view of that? I can't get that out of the law. And that was one of the issues that was discussed extensively in the referendum. To what extent is that point being made? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. I thought that's what the minister's gonna win, the referendum on the tow law. Because when people have to choose between security and privacy, they quickly opt for security. And it looked forward to that for a long time over two years ago. I remember the debates very well. Mr Verhoeven is not here right now, but I am grateful to him for the debates we have had. I defended why I was against and always had to defend Mr Verhoeven why he was always against, but now suddenly for. At least that's what he did with verve. I also remember a nice debate Mrs Buitenweg was also present at De Balie in Amsterdam. That debate was fairly predictable: Mr Verhoeven did not have it easy. But later in the evening there was an important poll of an important polling agency with the message: in this referendum there is something interesting going on. Because, no matter what I foresaw, a lot of people think safety is very important. So it really seemed like they were going to vote for that drag bill. But in that debate, in that campaign, it also became clear that data would soon be collected massively from people who are not suspected of anything and that these data were also shared with abroad, including data that had not been evaluated and therefore our secret services did not know what would be in it. And that turned out to be some kind of lower limit, that's what people really didn't want. That was a real reason for people to say: our security is very important to me, but I do not want my data to be unevaluated, without our secret services knowing what it says, shared with abroad. We just don't want to. Later analyses also show that this has been a very important point for people to say no. With that ruling people have actually laid some sort of foundation in this law. How far do we want to go? I also remember the CTIVD's report that was published at the time, precisely about sharing information with abroad, a report that was in the Ministry's office, but that was not made public by the Ministry at the time. I would also ask the Minister to look back on that course of action. We were in the middle of a referendum campaign, the people wanted to judge, and crucial information, a report from the CTIVD supervisor, was then withheld and delivered only after the referendum. And I also have to say that, once the law was passed, that intuition, that feeling of the population wasn't that weird. 'Cause what turned out? Cooperation with other countries, the distribution of information to other countries, proved to be a major problem. The AIVD and STUDY weren't ready yet. All kinds of internal matters had to be settled, all kinds of investigations into foreign intelligence services had to be completed; they were not ready, while that law was being worked on for years. Then surely someone from the Ministry must have made a call to the AIVD or the STUDY to ask: can you get out of the way with the law? So these people's feelings weren't that weird, and they said, "I don't want my data to be shared abroad, especially if our secret services don't know what it says." Now the Minister, the Ministry, has been able to think for two years. And now there is a law that the Minister says: I want to respond to the concerns of the people in the referendum campaign on the drag law. And I have to say, it's not easy for me. There will now be a reporting obligation with the supervisor, the CTIVD. Well, can the Minister explain what that is? This will be a large bulk of data from Dutch citizens, of which the AIVD and STIVD do not know what it contains. That data goes to secret services from other countries. And then there's a announcement to the supervisor, the CTIVD. Can the Minister take us with him in what happens next? How can the CTIVD monitor this when it comes to information that both the AIVD and STIVD do not even know about? How can the supervisor supervise something the AIVD and the STUDY don't know? How would the CTIVD know? And if the CTIVD can't do anything with that report, what's it all about? So what did two years of reflection in those towers get? So what is this bill, in which the Minister wishes to respond to the concerns of the people? I don't see it yet. Can the Minister comment on that? In any case, I have made an amendment, in order to be sure, in which we do respond to the objections. And that amendment is very simple, it actually says: when it comes to data from Dutch citizens who are not suspected of anything, data from which our AIVD and STIVD do not know what it says, unanalysed, we are not going to share that type of bulk information with other secret services. A simple amendment, which you can all support; nothing to worry about. Perhaps the Minister says: yes, that is necessary for security, to prevent attacks. But then the Minister will have to take me with him. If we can prevent an attack anywhere in the world, I think every Dutchman says: then we have to help; then we have to try to do everything we can to prevent it. But if there is a threat of an attack, in such a way that information is requested from the Dutch secret services, then it is not a matter of weeks and not of days, but perhaps of hours. So we must act very quickly to prevent an attack. That can, I think, with targeted information, if there are suspicions of certain persons or organisations who might want to commit an attack. Then you can look into the files of the AIVD and the STIVD, and you can exchange targeted information. But, Minister, try to take me with you, because I don't get it. What do these foreign secret services have to do with this massive amount of information about Dutch citizens, information that we don't even know what it says, of which our AIVD and STUD have no idea what it says? What good does it do these foreign secret services to prevent that attack in the few hours they have? Can the Minister take me on these two points, try to explain to me what is going on? Because, well, since March 2018 I haven't gotten any clarity about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr President. When we talk about the intelligence services in the Chamber, we often do so in response to the CTIVD reports. When we talk about the law, we often talk about what could go wrong in practice and whether we can think of smart things for that. I realise that colleagues have already said that this starts with first expressing appreciation for the work done by these intelligence services. 'Cause we're always talking about things that go wrong here. The trouble for the intelligence services is that we often don't know anything about all those things that go well. You're not gonna put that on the big clock. We don't hear every week what attack has been foiled. It's being foiled and every now and then, exceptionally, you hear about it. I can imagine that the intelligence services and the people at risk are looking at these kinds of debates with a distorted eye and wondering: why do MPs always talk about conditions and things that are not going well? I think that's one of the reasons. But a law that prevails must have a proper balance. On the one hand, the law must be careful. The law has also been amended so that this care has been increased. On the other hand, the law must also be workable. That is what I heard the colleague of the VVD say. Eventually the intelligence services were not set up as administration offices that describe and do everything neatly. This is partly part of the work, but they are mainly meant for the core business: keeping our military and our citizens safe. I wish them every success. Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that the cabinet is responding well to the outcome of the referendum. The referendum was clear. There was a small majority against, 49 against 46. A small group had no idea. I think that precisely the points of criticism, including in the public debate, have been included in the response of the cabinet. The CDA Group appreciates that. I appreciate that the cabinet is trying to keep a balance between increasing care on the one hand and ensuring that it remains workable on the other. For example, that orientation criterion that is now in the law is, I think, an improvement in care. On the other hand, however, this does not apply to all possible forms of the execution of the intelligence services, so that it could not unduly hinder them. As far as the CDA is concerned, this certainly applies to the examples cited by the Cabinet itself in its letter, namely that there may also be cases where an intelligence service cannot decide not to act. In particular, it concerns the prevention of attacks, including abroad, with data that we make available. Then, as a CDA, we also support the due diligence requirements. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that the cabinet also says that we must assume our responsibilities, because need breaks the law. But that is the exception as far as the CDA is concerned. Congratulations on monitoring the effectiveness of the intelligence services. Mr. Chairman. However, the Court has received a number of reports from the CTIVD stating that the intelligence services are not yet as far as they need to be when it comes to translating due diligence requirements into practical, daily practice. The CTIVD completes its final report for the summer. In a conversation we had with the CTIVD, I indicated on behalf of the CDA that it might be a good idea, while we are not there yet, to give them the opportunity to do so for another year. For example, in STIVD, where there is still difficulty in destroying the data that has been collected, this comes out very clearly. Then we in the Chamber can follow this practice even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	It's a wonderful argument. It is amazing that the CDA colleague says that sufficient account has been taken of the referendum, that there are guarantees and that a balance has been struck. I would remind the CDA colleague that in the first report of the CTIVD, which was adopted on 27 November, the introduction is actually being reasonably chopped up. It says, among other things, that the policy and the working process of both departments have not been properly defined in the "as targeted" criterion. It also says that the internal control mechanism is missing. So that's six months after entry into force. What justifies the argument that it has been handled carefully and in a balanced manner and not hastily in terms of implementation? This is not apparent from the CTIVD's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	I think Mr Azarkan is confusing two things. On the one hand, we have the law and its implementation. I have just argued that we do have a number of further steps to take, but that is different from the changes proposed by the cabinet to the law. I note with you that the intelligence services have been looking for a long time for what all this means. This is linked, for example, to the fact that only since the law has been passed, the Review Committee on Betting Powers is there, which should also clarify the expectation that the intelligence services will have to set up their way of working. So I understand that the intelligence services are taking time to do that. In this respect, my comment is not surprising, because I was talking about something other than what Mr Azarkan is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	I do not think there should have been that law in this form at all. I think it is up to us as parliamentarians, as representatives of the people, to think very carefully about these laws. A lot of people in society and a lot of institutions say that this towing function is too broad, sharing data with all kinds of services abroad that you don't know what that is and why that is exactly, and then a number of safeguards are asked. In the meantime we are six months further and then there appears not to be so much organized at all. Then we, as parliamentarians, are responsible, and you in particular, because you voted in favour of that law. Well, we can't back up why we did that, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	I disagree. That is precisely why, during the referendum as a CDA, we indicated why we can support the principle of the law well. The law adds a number of safeguards and introduces a number of new powers. As a CDA, we welcome the fact that our intelligence services can be effective, including those powers. Does this mean that the balance sheet would be lost, in the sense that an intelligence service could then be above the law or should not exercise any care? I believe that the intelligence services do not intend to do so at all, but that it is wise to lay down in the law that we, as a parliament, insist on these due diligence requirements. So I am and remain in favour of this law. As a parliamentarians, I check with the opinions given by the CTIVD, whether the cabinet is successful in implementing it and whether the law as we have implemented it is being complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	It is really too easy to say: I am convinced that our security services do not want to collect more information than is strictly necessary and that they always have the right intention. I would point out, for example, that we have had a debate here for many years about the Tax Administration, where even its own State Secretary has made a declaration of professional discrimination, of hoarding. I think it is wise that, as parliamentarians, we should look at the guarantees that can lead to abuse. You'll just be the one Dutchman who doesn't get into America, and I know them. You don't get into America because they have information because you were on a list that you've been tapped by the tow law. That can't do what, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	That would be remarkable in itself, because the new powers conferred by the law have not yet been put into practice, but I fully agree with you that we, as a parliament, have to ensure that this law is careful for these kinds of cases. Do we as a CDA reason from a distrustful attitude towards the intelligence services? I do not think so, but for a number of parties, the starting point is not mistrust of the intelligence services, but they are trying to find a balance in the law between what an intelligence service should be able to do to keep us safe and what needs to be done to ensure that the rights that citizens have in the Netherlands are protected. I don't mind discussing that at all. It's just where you put the accent. For the CDA, this is the effectiveness of the intelligence services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	The effectiveness of intelligence services is, of course, also linked to the confidence of the people, as I have just said. Those safeguards are therefore also important. Those safeguards are also important for the safety of people. I was a little bothered by the following. It seemed as if two things were set against each other: "The CDA is for a workable law and is therefore not in favour of becoming an administration office." Do you think that, with the comments I have just made in my speech and the changes I propose, I am making it into an administration office?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	No, I didn't mean to say that. I have not yet responded specifically to your proposal. But I can also follow the reasoning of the cabinet. For example, in a situation where an attack would have to be foiled abroad in the short term, it could be that a notification could be sufficient and there would not have to be some kind of consent from, for example, the TIB. You asked the Minister the same question. I am also curious about the Minister's answer, but I can only imagine that there are situations in which we would like to see things on paper something different, but in which the intelligence services have to operate sharply for security reasons. I think you're always looking for that balance. You may just have something else in there, but we can check with each other that the cabinet simply has the law implemented as it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	One of the issues I'm concerned with is that large bulk data doesn't require the Minister's permission when they're obtained through, for example, an informant. Is the CDA prepared to look into the fact that the Minister does need permission to do so? And if not, what is the argument that it is precisely because of the way it has been obtained that there are fewer guarantees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u44	I think that my colleague has a point to make when she says: why should it be allowed to do so with one means and not with the other? That is a good question to ask the Minister as well. I am therefore looking forward to that answer. I think that in the explanatory statement the cabinet has clearly indicated that, for example, the orientation criterion may be quite different at different stages of an investigation. Also when it comes to exonerating someone, for example, if you see someone perhaps as a suspect or as an employee in a particular process, you need to be able to collect information in a different way. Perhaps that is less focused at the beginning and further down in the research. I think you're right to do that. I'd like to offer that space to the intelligence services, but I think you have a point. I wonder how the Minister will react to that. But I'd like to look at it with those glasses, too. I do want to be careful, but I do believe that the intelligence services are not administrative offices. We should not have the situation where more time and more energy is put into the legitimate description of everything, which reduces effectiveness in the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u45	Of course, I very much agree with the latter. Mr Van der Molen was actually going to read the results of the referendum earlier in his speech. He was going to say that this was reported in the publicity, and that was followed by that and that measure. That's one way to do it. Of course, that's always the tricky thing about referenda. But we have a referendum law... Actually, we did. Article 11 of that law was, if I may put it bluntly, that if a law is rejected, the government must do one thing, and that is to repeal that law. That didn't happen. We're getting an amendment to the law now. Does the CDA consider this to be justified in principle and in terms of state law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u46	When a consultative referendum is held, the cabinet must always consider the outcome and see what the reaction is. There is no automatism from a consultative referendum that a bill should be withdrawn. For this there is a corrective referendum. We have not known this so far in the Netherlands. I think you're right to do that. My criticism of the abolition of that referendum was precisely that this type of referendum also makes the result a playball of politicians, because they do not escape to interpret that result. In such a kind of referendum, it is wrong to give the impression that, after the politicians have been arguing with each other about what has come out of it, the citizen eventually has a say in it, and we know that afterwards the same politicians have to get back together about what the electorate has said. As it happens, political parties often think that the voter has meant exactly what they have always said. That's exactly the easy part of that kind of referendum. But I think you have also interpreted it, because of course the PVV voted in favour of the creation of the Wiv and now, after the referendum, is suddenly quite critical of the law. Everyone, of course, also reads the result of a referendum, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u47	I would like to ask Mr Van der Molen, for eternity, to look back at the debate I have just referred to, with Minister Plasterk. That was a long and hard debate. I was in this together with Mr Verhoeven. Yes, I'm killing his political credibility within his own party now, but I have to do that. There we have acted very critically on many points. In the end, we voted in favour of the law, because I think you should not abandon the secret service, a point of principle. There has also been a referendum. You know the consistency of my party, so you can also ask yourself what I voted for myself. But I'd like to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether this was intended for me or for another colleague who is in the Chamber. In any case, I would also like to thank the Cabinet for this, which is perhaps just a small part of the law that is now possible to appoint alternate members for the TIB. It is only a triumvirate that receives a whole range of requests for a year on whether certain possibilities should and may be used by the intelligence services. Then it is simply unwise for continuity that we have never provided in the law for others to act as back-up. So that is only a small part, but I think it is essential that, if we take that review seriously, we also ensure that there can be no circumstances that prevent that review from taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u49	I was wondering what Mr Van der Molen thought of the Minister of Justice and Security's idea of using AIVD in the fight against drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u50	I am not a member of the Committee on Justice and Security, so I have not followed those debates. So I don't know what the discussion has been like. The intelligence services are keeping...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u51	He called it in Buitenhof. It's one of the famous runaways that come up from time to time. So you haven't missed anything, I'd say, on parliamentary debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u52	No, I don't think I missed anything. It is quite clear that organised crime does not fall within the scope of the intelligence services. At least that's what I'm gonna find out. I have also seen that both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior have put a beautiful, diplomatically formulated paragraph in the questions, which I took note of, in any case, that they do not intend to change the task for the intelligence services. But I don't know if that's going to be debated anymore. I also hope that there will be a debate on how to deal with drug crime in the Netherlands, which is taking on alarming forms. I do not know how this is still being discussed in the Cabinet at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u53	But for the time being, I'm just saying that the CDA isn't for this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u54	I cannot speak for my colleague for Justice and Security. I don't want to get in the way of that one. I simply note that I have no intention, in the letter to this cabinet, of extending the scope of the mission of the intelligence services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. March 21, 2018, 805 days ago. At that time, the referendum in which the people were asked: are you for or against the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017? At that time, the people said by a majority: we are against this so-called drag law. That is important to mark today, because it was not explicitly asked: do you think that Articles 20, 26, 29 and 33 should be slightly changed, but the rest of the tow law can simply come into force? And yet, changing a few articles, that's all the minister did. Now we're actually talking about an apology bill here. We're gonna do it as focused as possible and we're not gonna get a three-year retention period. No, we're gonna do a three-time one-year retention period. Wow, what an improvement, we think. Mr. Chairman. Such an apology law feels a bit like a déjà vu. It feels like asking the people if they want a European constitution, to which the answer is no, and then, after renewing the cover, you sign the Treaty of Lisbon. It feels a little like asking the people if they want an association agreement with Ukraine, to which the answer is no, and then agreeing to a post-it anyway. It is important to recall how much the outcome of the referendum is being ignored, because this law, whereby massively collected and uncontrolled data are sent abroad, where people are being watched who are not suspects at all, who give far too wide powers to intelligence services, was rejected by the population. That position is once again ignored. It results in poor policies and is detrimental to confidence in democracy. However, the fact that so much time has passed also has an advantage, because during those 805 days it has become increasingly clear where the cabinet stands when it comes to privacy and how these intelligence services deal with this law. For example, we saw one report by the supervisor, the CTIVD, which was critical of the law and how it is implemented. I'll give you a little anthology from some of those reports. For example, reporting 59 states that "essential safeguards for the protection of the individual's rights are lacking in practice, in whole or in part." Reporting 60 states: "The AIVD is structurally inadequate in getting a picture of the level of data protection offered, the legal powers and (technical) possibilities of the foreign service (...) In addition, all AIVD weighting notes lack an explicit weighting of the importance of the cooperation versus the risks." Reporting 64 states: "The technical system at STPD does not allow automatic destruction of irrelevant data. There has also been no destruction in other ways. This is unlawful." Reporting 65 states: "The AIVD and STUDY failed to comply with legal obligations during the investigation period in the case of concrete benefits in kind from unevaluated data to foreign services. The unlawfulness is both substantive and procedural in nature." Even in the most recent report, in report 66, it says: "There has been a lot of work done, but the necessary legal safeguards for the legal protection of citizens are still not sufficiently implemented. There are still significant risks of unlawful acts." Maybe there are members who say: yes, you see, a supervisor works. But this is all afterwards, when evil has already been done. More than four years after the draft law was published, the supervisor still concludes that there are significant risks of unlawful action. For my group, that makes it clear how incompatible this law is with the right to privacy. Then there are the steps the cabinet has taken since the referendum in the area of privacy. Less than a year ago, Minister Grapperhaus indicated that he wants access to WhatsApp and other chat services. Now those messages are being sent encrypted, and the crime fighters at Justice and Security don't like that. I'd rather just get a back door in anyway. The same Grapperhaus recently came up with a law that was soon renamed "superseries." The law will oblige organisations to share their data in partnerships. Housing corporations, police, banks, tax authorities, health care institutions, all of them will soon be obliged to share their data. All of them should exchange data in order to create risk profiles, which can be more effectively enforced in the case of fraud. This approach is not only contrary to human rights and is prohibited by the courts; it also shows how incredibly unjust and sometimes dangerous such a law can be. Then I have not yet mentioned the cabinet commitment to opening up 8 million medical records, to the corona apps that may be coming and to the telecom data law, which has indeed ended up in our mailbox. You will understand, Mr President, that my group is not so confident that this cabinet has good guarantees of privacy. On the basis of these developments and the legislative proposal before us, I still have quite a few questions for this Minister. First of all, according to the Minister, does the current working methods of these services comply with that law? Are all the risks of unlawful acts now limited to the absolute minimum? Can the Minister say whether requests from the services that are assessed as unlawful by the TIB are judged in this way because there are innocent mistakes or because the services are really trying to stretch the limits of a law? What's the picture the TIB has on that? Can the Minister indicate that it is still practice for the TIB to grant conditional consent, while the law does not allow for that at all? The Minister shall reply in writing as follows: She suggests that without that clause, it would be a bureaucratic repetition of moves, but my group does not share that view. The motto must be that you first meet a condition and then get permission. This prevents any abuse of differences in interpretation of the terms and conditions. Then sharing information with abroad. Can the Minister explain why she is still not convinced of the importance of looking at and checking information before it is shared abroad? Has the increased geopolitical tension led us to share information with fewer countries? Are these weighting notes regularly updated? Those weighting notes should take into account the added value of the exchange against the risks. I am therefore surprised to read that when it is not about personal data, what information is shared in these partnerships is not kept at all. Is that really true? Because if there are no restrictions on how much is shared and if what is shared is not recorded, then there can be no proper risk assessment. Then those weighing notes are just a farce, aren't they? We have already had a monitoring hole in international cooperation agreements, but this should keep that cooperation even more out of sight. Can the Minister answer that? Why should we engage in more international cooperation if these are the risks? How does she intend to reduce that surveillance hole at all? That is very important to us. Then there is also a difference in guarantees between the research assignment "targeted interception" and the collection of large amounts of data via informants. Several spokesmen have already spoken of this. When we asked the Minister about her response to the TIB's criticism that this difference is illogical and there would be no basis for it, she said that this is not now in the law and would therefore only be addressed in the law review. I hope the Minister doesn't look at this law that way. We are therefore wondering whether this is not really already a point on which the law should be improved. It can't be that we're not gonna do that until after that evaluation. We would therefore like a substantive response to this particular point. Or is there no substantive response to this and is this one of the points that has been killed when you form a coalition with each other? Finally, a few things that may relate to this law. What is the impact of the Data Processing Act on the services? What's that law gonna change for them? Is it true that they get many more databases within their reach through their usual channels or through informants? As far as we are concerned, this is therefore very undesirable. We look forward to hearing the Minister's views on this. What are the implications if Minister Grapperhaus gets his way and all the messaging services have to give up their security? After the referendum, Mr Verhoeven was quite sure that the unfocused view of WhatsApp is really not on the agenda, but we are happy to have that confirmed once again, because we have little confidence in it at the moment. And because this minister and this coalition refused to take seriously the emergency brake that attracted the people and make a better law, that is unfortunately what this is all about: confidence. I am talking about the confidence that we as a parliament should have in the way these services operate. With a good law, we certainly need it, but we don't have that good law right now. For the sake of confidence, it does not help if the Minister withholds an important report, day before the referendum. For the sake of trust, it doesn't help if the former boss of the AIVD says that guarantees are only unnecessary procedures and political talk. For the sake of trust, it does not help to hear that the services had underestimated the implications of the law for its introduction. For the sake of trust, it doesn't help to see that our Secretary of Defense in America is not taken seriously when she makes a legitimate request for information, while at the same time we continue to send our information that way unseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. First of all, it is good that the Minister is well and well in our midst. We are pleased that we can look together at how we can make better the policy that the minister is setting up and the laws that she is preparing. On 21 March 2018, the Dutch people said no to the Intelligence and Security Services Act, in the past lovingly, among others mentioned by colleague Kees Verhoeven, the drag law. With this, the Netherlands also said no to the surveillance company, no to a society in which your privacy and identity become increasingly owned by the government, and no to a government that shares unlimited and unfiltered data with foreign security services. There's more and more gathering. Take street surveillance, sometimes combined with drones and cars making stealthy recordings. The government and data collection, that's not a very happy marriage. We know the example of SyRI, on the basis of which one's residence and other criteria determine whether that person is a fraud. We have seen that the government's way of doing things has been torched by the judge. SyRI's been shut down by now. The government records everything about citizens, but the question is where they are kept and how secure they are stored. As a Dutchman with a migration background, it is only a question of whether your origin is not dragged into an opaque system that processes your data. That's what we've been able to see at the IRS. Now, as a blow to the head, there are conversations about corona apps that are used to monitor people's movements in detail and use cloud control and phone data. That is terrifying, also because the Dutch Data Protection Authority is late or not sufficiently involved. Of course people ask themselves the question: is my privacy still safe? Is my identity still my own? What does that government know about me? Am I protected by that government? What information can the government have on me? It is because of these concerns that the Dutch rightly said no to the drag law. No to the uncontrolled sharing of information with foreign services. No to large-scale unfocused eavesdropping and no to the almost endless retention of privacy-sensitive information. But the coalition didn't come out of that no of the Dutch people, because that's how democracy works: if it's not convenient, you put it in the garbage can. The tow law had to and would continue despite the Dutch's no. The government and the coalition simply introduced the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Not much later, in July 2018, the coalition decided to abolish the consultative referendum altogether because the people in the country find something they don't like. That reminds me of one of my first work experiences. I was a boy about 26 years old and I worked at an organization where we were doing research. We asked through a satisfaction survey among the staff what they thought about it. The first year the organisation scored quite well. But the second year we were below a lot of national averages. Then the board said: we don't want to know anymore; we stop doing research to know what people think. It's very convenient, but it's not democratic. The opinion of the Dutch was ignored and eventually the Dutch were silenced with the abolition of the referendum. DENK once again wishes to condemn this course of action. Disclaimer of the fact that the participation has been taken away. Disclaimer about the fact that the coalition doesn't want to listen to the people in the country. And also disapproval of Democrats 66, which uses democratisation and participation as a campaign logo, to swallow it again if the smell of power intoxicates them. The embodiment of this is colleague Kees Verhoeven. I've said that before. As the biggest critic of the drag law, he saw that dozens of amendments were voted down. Actually, he had no choice but to vote against that law. But yes, in a rather slippery way he slipped from fierce opponent of the tow law to the role of about the largest "campaigner." Kees Verhoeven will therefore go down in history as synonymous with rotating, wandering, zigzagging and slippery politics. "Palingpolitics" I have mentioned before. I mean that affectionately. DENK remains linear and consistent about the tow law. Already at the first treatment of the Tow Act in 2017, we were against it. Against the unlimited draining of Dutchmen. Against the almost endless retention of privacy-sensitive information. Against unfiltered sharing of information with foreign intelligence services. Against the lack of monitoring of the actions of the security services. A majority of the Dutch thought so too and, as I said, spoke out against the law in 2018. The government then came up with a number of false adjustments, to rush into that law. Appearances that ignore the "no" of the Dutch population. The Dutch people did not say "no, unless"; the Dutch people simply said "no." In that respect, no is just no. With the present bill, the government wants to lay down the fakes in the law. The false adjustments first laid down in policy rules are now legally anchored. These adjustments are insufficient to remove the objections to the Tow Law. Unfiltered and unevaluated information may simply be shared with foreign services as long as a weighting note is established. It can simply share information that has not been evaluated with foreign intelligence services. What happens next to that information abroad nobody knows. We're not being reported back on that. In addition, if the weighting note is negative, this does not necessarily mean that no data is exchanged. So there's no guarantee whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u59	I am thinking for a moment whether it is wise to interrupt, but a lot of things are now being aired very briefly by Mr Azarkan. It just doesn't add up and is factually incorrect. That is at the heart of the problem that we also had to deal with in the discussion on the referendum. It was about the fact that there is unbiased supervision, that all citizens are part of the investigation and that information is just given to foreign services. None of that is true. Then I think, "Why this way?" Just take the facts. The review is there in advance, during and after. All these things just come up and they're just in the bill. But you make a caricature of the story with which you wrong the cause. You say, "I'm very straight." That's right. You are very straightforward in a way that does wrong to what is ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u60	If Kees agrees with Mr. Bosman, you really should be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u61	Kees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr Verhoeven. However, as a reaction, I note that this drag-law function is still in place, and that means that unlimited information can be collected from a lot of citizens who do not know about it. I notice that there is unlimited access to databases. Security services can use a lot of databases to tap information. Imagine, for example, that they would have done that with the Tax Office. Imagine if these security services had done a check and said: I also want information from that database. Information sharing is still permitted, but we have added a criterion. We also see it in the report. According to the Recourt motion, we say to each other: that must be directed. Then it just doesn't work out. So I understand that Mr Bosman very much wants this law to go through and that all this can be done. I am convinced, like Bits of Freedom and Amnesty International, that there are still a lot of hooks and eyes attached and that this, as Mr Verhoeven once said, violates fundamental civil rights. Only he doesn't say that anymore, because he's on the other side now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u63	Here Mr. Azarkan says it again: unlimited. Unlimited, citizens are subject to investigation by the services. That's not true. If a service is checked somewhere, it is in the Netherlands. If they want to make use of special powers, there is a prior review, the Minister's consent is needed, there is during and after supervision of the CTIVD, we have a parliamentary supervisor, the CIVD, the committee-sticulously-supervised committee. The fact that Mr Azarkan once again calls for the services to have unlimited possibilities to investigate all Dutch people is wrong. It does injustice to the story and it creates the image that our services would be working to research every Dutchman. That is wrong and it does wrong to all those people of the AIVD and the STUDY. I think that's really inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'd like to start with the end anyway. I always find it special when people come up with a schwalbe and I saw Mr. Van der Molen do it too: if you criticize the way the security services, the police, the Tax Office, that will be explained if you do not support it. Mr President, I have heard this before, and I am far from it. The fact that I am standing here means that from my role I am watching how, as a people's representative, you are preventing the introduction of a law, which many people have said: it is simply not ready, it is not complete, there are too few guarantees. That's what I'm defending here. I stand before all services in the Netherlands where a lot of people work, with heart and soul, as Mr Bosman knows. I have a great deal of appreciation for everyone who is in public service and who is working every day on a better Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u65	Finally, Mr President. Then Mr Azarkan should give some thought to the words he uses, as if it were an unbiased possibility for the services to investigate any Dutch person. 'Cause that's not true. In my view, it is wise to correct that in this way, that Mr Azarkan has used the wrong words. I would also take a little more room to say: well, Mr Azarkan has all the sympathy for the services and the opportunities they want to exploit, but not unbiased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u66	In theory, the security services have the possibility to determine after coordination with the TIB how much information they collect from which Dutchman. I think that's the right idea. Mr. Chairman. Information from citizens and organisations can still be tapped, as long as the tap mission is used as effectively as possible. So we come to the point that Mr Bosman just made: we do not know that 'as focused as possible'. No one really knows that. Furthermore, there is the possibility to retain data that are privacy sensitive for three years, as long as there is a re-evaluation. Mr. Chairman. In my view, these are false adjustments, which simply ignore the Dutch' concerns. In addition, the monitoring reports show that the security services cannot handle the drag law properly. The CTIVD has published six reports on the tow law and in these reports the criticism is not easy. The Council of State also endorses this. Let me just mention a few conclusions from that progress report. The design of work processes and systems is not sufficiently tailored to the requirements of the law. Mr President, there is so much to say: we are simply not able to deal with this law in a procedural manner. Then why are we bringing him in? Second conclusion. There are still no concrete handles for the targeted filtering of data collected in bulk. In normal Dutch, this means that we cannot properly determine on the basis of which filters you test that information. How do we determine why your place of residence, your origin, your gender or any religious preference you have is shared? It's terrifying, Mr. Chairman. Conclusion three: the CTIVD identifies large risks of unlawful behaviour in the application of automated data analysis by the AIVD and STIVD. In my opinion, this means that there is a great chance that Dutch people will be packed against the law on the basis of their privacy. The weighing notes of the AIVD and STIVD, which the CTIVD tested, are flawed and therefore do not yet form a sound legal basis for cooperation. I think that means that we can still share all kinds of information without being able to control what happens to it. Finally. The implementation of the law rattles and is a threat to privacy. This criticism of the CTIVD is proof for DENK that the bogus measures taken by the government are insufficient. That is why there is only one possibility for the group of DENK. Listen to the voice of the Dutch who have said no to the drag law. No eavesdropping, no privacy-sensitive information to foreign intelligence services. Just pull in that tow bill while you still can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, on behalf of D66. You're getting a little bullied today, Mr Verhoeven. You can't do that. Hit me back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u69	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u70	Good to be back here, after more than three months, and then to talk about my favorite law: the Intelligence and Security Services Act. I have noticed, however, that several colleagues are a little concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u71	And you missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u72	I hope they're okay. Of course, we haven't seen each other in a while. Mr. Chairman. It's a law with a famous history. The treatment in the Chamber was in 2017. Despite a great deal of criticism, the law was adopted at the time, with 114 votes in favour and 36 against, including the 12 seats of my group at the time. In spite of the fact that the law was already there, a passage has been included in the coalition agreement with a number of points of reassurance about the law, but that should not prevent a referendum. That referendum took place in early 2018, after a nice referendum campaign, in which a number of parties tried to express their views. In doing so, I tried, on behalf of D66, to state that I was in favour of the law on the basis of the change in the coalition agreement, but it should not benefit. We lost that referendum. A majority of the Dutch population voted against the Wiv. That's why we're here now. The cabinet then sent a letter on 18 April, in which they have already made policy changes, but also made the announcement of the legislative amendment we are discussing today. It is a good thing that we are discussing it, because I am just saying it, and I am not doing that to provoke it, but of course it does do justice to the referendum. The result of the referendum is certainly being done right by this amendment of the law. You can then ask whether you think that is enough and have a whole discussion about the interpretation of the result. I do not want to do that, but there is, of course, just a legislative amendment based on a referendum. Let's establish that with each other. This change in the law is making a number of changes based on the great concern among the population during the campaign in 2018. D66 has played an active role in this law. At the time, in 2017, we tabled amendments, one of which I believe was accepted and a large number were not. Then we voted against. At that time, we tried to improve it in the coalition agreement. We were also very much in favour of amending the law after the referendum. So we have taken the trouble at a number of different times to improve this law, which we were indeed critical of. I am also the first to admit that it did not go in a completely polished way. I saw myself that a law that wasn't good at first got a little better in the end, but now we're at a point where I dare say I think this is a good law. I am not alone in this, because the regulator, the CTIVD, perhaps the most critical intelligence supervisor in the world, has said that this law is in balance. So we shouldn't pretend there's a very bad law now with all kinds of fake adjustments. Political parties have indeed done their work at different times in history. Of course, I am not going to respond to Mr Azarkan's comments, but you can say that a politician who changes his mind or tries to make changes is a slippery spin. You can also say that it is a politician who tries to improve the law on the basis of its content and does so at all times that is possible. I'm not gonna say I did it right or wrong, but at least I tried to do my job by improving that law. There's a better law now than there was three years ago. I think everyone in this house agrees on that. We will therefore support the present law; I can already be clear about that. We are also positive about the changes that have been made, but further improvements are always possible. Those changes went through three moments. I've just mentioned them. For example, in the passage in the coalition agreement, the phrase "random and mass gathering will not happen" was literally included. That was a great uncertainty at the time and it was included in the coalition agreement. Then people said to me: that's nice, Kees, but you didn't change the law with that. That's why there was a referendum. The partner services were also limited and the minister had to obtain permission. Following the referendum, policy rules came into the cabinet's letter. The eye-interception had to be as focused as possible. The implementation of the Record motion is now also laid down in this law. Weighting notes came for cooperation with foreign services and the CTIVD is informed when sharing unevaluated data or bulk data. The retention periods were shorter and medical data were immediately deleted. From that moment on, the use of jurisdiction against a journalist required permission from the court of The Hague. That was an increase in the regime. That was the second time that improvements were made to this law and implementation in practice. The third moment is today. The third moment of today offers, among other things, the legal definition of "as targeted as possible" collection. That's what it was all about at first. "Gathering as focused as possible" was the discussion during that debate, and that is what we are now recording. We also link the cooperation relationship with foreign services and the way of sharing with foreign services to either the cooperation relationship that exists or the weighting notes that need to be drawn up and which need to be reviewed by the CTIVD. And yes, exceptions are indeed possible. That's just what the law says. Then there must be a good, urgent and important reason and then mention must be made. That is, indeed, something that is still valid. I can talk about it long or short, Mr President, but I signed up for six minutes and I know you don't like it when I walk out of time. I do not want to do it to colleagues for me to tell them more about this law than I have done in the last three years, so I draw three conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u73	Well, thank you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u74	The first conclusion, President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u75	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u76	No, the three conclusions are still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u77	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u78	It is a kind of cliff-hanging structure of my speech ending in three conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u79	You're making it very exciting. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u80	One. It was a long way. It was not always an easy road, but the result gradually got better and better. The law is in balance. I agree with everyone who says: it is now up to the services to comply with this change of law, the framework created by politics. Two. The TIB in advance and the CTIVD afterwards together provide an incredibly strong control and control regime, perhaps the best in the world. I do not think there are many services that are as well and thoroughly controlled as our own services. Three. Let me repeat once again: the D66 referendum has been done justice to that. The law has been amended and substantive changes have been made, both in implementation, through policy rules and a letter, and today in the legal text itself, provided that we naturally support that law as a Chamber. D66 advises to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u81	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. No one has interrupted you, but everyone has said something about Mr Verhoeven in their first term. I call Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Krol/Van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I have interrupted Mr Verhoeven so many times in previous debates that I thought: let me just talk him out this time; that might be nice. Mr. Chairman. Citizens' confidence in government and intelligence services has been under pressure for a long time. The debate on the Intelligence and Security Services Act is starting to get a little sleazy after three years. On 21 March 2018, in the Netherlands, we voted massively against the introduction of the new Intelligence and Security Services Act, the Wiv, the Drag Act. An important CTIVD report on the lack of safeguards for the privacy of innocent citizens, particularly in the information sharing with foreign services, was lifted over the consultative referendum. The minister left that in her desk drawer. That report would be nothing but confusion and would not require the citizen to make a choice. Despite the unsatisfied yes campaign of the cabinet for the drag law, the citizen was very well placed to make the correct assessment and the outcome of the consultative referendum was clear: no, the law cannot be passed! In spite of the fact that, after intense debates in this House, it was announced that nothing would be done with a citizen's no, the cabinet seemed to want to change something. The cabinet presented a proposal for a number of minor, i.e. cosmetic changes which did not meet the fundamental objections that existed at the time. The law simply came into force two years ago and the fundamental objections still exist. The points of improvement raised in the social debate have been ignored. Does the Minister consider that the amendments to the Wiv 2017 are in line with the objections that were so obvious about the referendum? Mr. Chairman. The dragnet is still in the law. Totally innocent citizens can be systematically tapped, the privacy of citizens and fundamental human rights are still under pressure. Yes, there have been additional safeguards in terms of informant competence. But there are more powers. For example, services may still share data from the Dutch citizen unevaluated with foreign services. Communication is made to the supervisors, to the CTIVD, that unevaluated data, of innocent citizens, are shared. But no one knows what it says; that's what GroenLinks just said. So how is supervision possible? We will therefore wholeheartedly support the SP amendment, and what GroenLinks is probably preparing. Because control is totally out of control, so how can the fundamental rights of our Dutch citizens be guaranteed? Can the Minister explain that very well? Prior review of the TIB is not even required, so how can it be ensured that the infringements are lawful? Mr. Chairman. And how is it possible that the secret services may use vulnerabilities in software but do not have to report these vulnerabilities to the creator? Can the Minister reflect that this will also allow the evildoers to make use of the vulnerabilities and to penetrate systems unnoticed? That doesn't have anything to do with safety, but it really doesn't have anything to do with safety. And can the Minister explain how it is possible that the services operate and cooperate more and more internationally, and that the supervision of the work of the intelligence and security services, and the sharing of data, are increasingly being withdrawn from surveillance? And is it true that the services are already collecting more data than they can actually handle? Why are no additional safeguards legally anchored, which ensure that services will collect more targeted data? If the collective anger, the data hunger of the services, knows no limits, isn't legal limitation indispensable? And isn't it high time, more than two years after the Dutch people's no, that a fundamentally better law should be introduced, made in close cooperation with the privacy watchdogs? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. How many CTIVD reports have been passed on the Wiv? How many were critical: a bit critical or particularly critical? What has been done with all this criticism so far? The supervisor needs to get teeth again, impact force. If the services are in breach, this must be stopped immediately by the CTIVD. The supervisor's judgements must be binding, because what good is it? What good is it for the innocent Dutch citizen? Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister aware that the use of towed nets has made America a big deal? It doesn't work, it doesn't catch terrorists, and it costs a lot of money. The National Security Agency previously advised to end the collection of massive data from phones. The far-reaching U.S. surveillance bill is going off the table. Then why should the Netherlands continue to risk the human rights of its citizens? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet doesn't listen to its citizens. The cabinet prefers to eavesdrop on its citizens. Let us not forget that privacy is security and that giving up the privacy of completely innocent citizens has nothing to do with the safety of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Baudet, but I would ask you to register in advance. Then your colleagues, pardon colleagues, will know about it and so will we. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Madam President. On March 21, 2018, the Dutch people voted in a majority against this tow law, against the possibility for the government to collect more or less uncontrolled and unlimited data from citizens in order to get to know them at a later date, perhaps to come to the conclusion that something might or might not be useful for some sort of search purpose. It is for that reason alone, just because the people voted against it, that more than 3 million people voted against it in a referendum, that we are still talking about it in this House of Representatives at all, that the government wants to push it through and that part of the law has already been introduced. Just as pure as a starting point for a democracy: isn't it insane that that happens, that without cans or blush we think it's normal that we just ignore it? This Minister has now also abolished the referendum. This minister, of the party which was set up to introduce the referendum, has now abolished the referendum. This was the last chance we had as citizens in the Netherlands to make our voices heard. This was the last chance we had to have any real influence in a referendum. After that, it has turned its neck: just after that one statement by the people, after, of course, the ruling in the Ukraine referendum and after the previous no on the European Constitution. Every time, it's just ignored. This tow law is also a particularly bad idea. It's not just that the population was against it; it's a really bad idea. We have seen this in the United States, where the patron saint Obama, as he was seen, may be involved in a major scandal where the security services could have been used to discredit a political opponent, to make Trump's election impossible. This is also happening here in the Netherlands. This government is pursuing a political opposition leader for political reasons. This is something that is a great scandal and which is now the subject of countless things. Possibly political reasons; I will correct myself on that point if that is the intervention Mr van der Molen wants to make. We must therefore be incredibly vigilant with what freedoms, what powers we give to intelligence services to spy on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u85	In my view, intelligence services should not be a game of political considerations, either in the United States or here. That's the lead. I wanted to correct the point made by Mr Baudet. He said, "This government is prosecuting a politician." There is a difference of opinion about prosecuting politicians. But it's the D.A.'s office that's prosecuting. That's not the government. You corrected yourself, and I think that's a good thing, because we shouldn't give each other the impression that the government can have a Member of Parliament prosecuted if an opinion didn't appeal to her. That would really be out of line with state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u86	If that is what Mr Van der Molen and I seem to agree that there would have been some kind of political direction in the trial against Geert Wilders, then that would be about the greatest violation of the constitutional principles that you can imagine, and then this government would have to resign in its entirety. That's what you mean to say, Mr. Van der Molen, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u87	I think it's really disgusting. I find it really shocking that we have an input here that says 'it could'. We know he's done that before. Actually, he says "it could have" and "if it could have, then that's outrageous." That's no way to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u88	I'm not saying it could have been. I say that this is one of the things that is being investigated as we speak, but that we have very great reasons to believe that there are extremely large powers that are not always properly used. You can read Edward Snowden's book on how the NSA, the Secret Service, works. What they all spy on, how it's used: it makes you cold!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u89	That is why my group is always very critical of powers. In my opinion, you should not have blown over all kinds of theories from Trump who himself thought that there was a huge scandal, the same Trump who has now been found to be sitting on lie 16,433 as a parliamentarians with the aim of restricting our security services. I think that's some bullshit. It strikes me that he is shaking this out today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u90	I think this is a very relevant consideration. I think this is exactly what this discussion is about: do we want to give these secret services more and more power while we are cutting back on defence? Yesterday it was announced that the cabinet does not want to spend 2% on the military, on defence, that we do not invest enough in police and detection, that we do not deal effectively with countless issues, from Islamic radicalism to all kinds of other things that happen on the streets. Illegal asylum seekers are not being deported, but they could be. We'll all leave that alone. We are not doing anything about that, but what we should do is more mass surveillance, more spying, more anonymous tapping, more tracking social media activities, and perhaps giving that information to other countries and perhaps via NATO to Turkey. What madness is this, what discord! We choose the wrong route all the time. Not normally targeting criminals, but spying on ordinary citizens more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u91	I really appreciate the fact that colleagues are using the information that lies ahead very well and are not going to share information that is demonstrably incorrect. But besides...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u92	But what then is demonstrably wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u93	... he comes up with an interpretation that our security services are going to be deployed to the opponents... We know that Mr Baudet believes that a number of parties here in the Chamber are doing everything they can to... He calls that oikophobia. That's the kind of special terms he uses. He sees bears everywhere on the road. He thinks this is gonna get abused.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u94	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u95	Once again, I see a strong example of seagull policy by Mr Baudet. He hasn't read himself in, he's coming here screaming, he's flying in, he's flapping, he's shitting, and we can clean it up later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u96	Well, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u97	This really doesn't make any sense. I don't even have paper on me; I speak out of my head, so what kind of crap could I make here that needs to be cleaned up? It is really incomprehensible what Mr Azarkan is saying there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u98	I think it is a pity that the picture is sketched here that there is only a huge action from the services to have more control and control over the Dutch population, while the legislative proposal now before us is increasingly monitoring and controlling these services. Does Mr Baudet agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u99	No. The tow law allows the security services to track and store more data for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u100	The research mission-oriented methods, the techniques are not just at the service of the services. A request must be made for this. Is that true, according to Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u101	Yeah, there are two things. One is tracking big data at all. The other is researching people and data. Of course I agree with him. That's true, yes. Of course, there are all links in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u102	No, the eye-interception is not something that can just be applied. I would like to ask Mr Baudet if he knows the different characteristics that apply to the eye interception.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u103	This is something very specific to me. We're talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u104	...the tow law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u105	We are talking about extending the power of the secret services to collect data, to track social media, to keep an eye on people, to keep phone records longer, and to be able to store and see more big data in general. That's what this is about. I think that's very dangerous. I think we're going a very wrong way with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u106	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u107	Everyone's entitled to an opinion, but we're talking about a bill here. Well, that's important. Mr Baudet seems to have no idea what the bill means and what safeguards there are in this bill, precisely in order to prevent services from randomly checking all kinds of people and collecting data. That's what this bill is for. I find it annoying, again, that a Member of Parliament is simply hearing all kinds of ideas from a personal point of view. This does not do justice to the commitment, control and review of our services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u108	Look. It's always the question: where do you put it, in politics or...? Where do you put the trust? Who do you trust? The highest and last question of any political order is: who guards the guards? The more power and access to information you give those guards, the greater their impact. You just don't know how it's gonna be used. That's why I mentioned those examples of America and the trial against Geert Wilders. I can't believe you don't see that. I don't understand why you don't see that this is incredibly dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u109	I think Mr Baudet has a point when he says that it is important to have safeguards when you lay down a competence somewhere. We are a democracy and we want to monitor it. Can Mr Baudet indicate what part he lacks in the way in which the supervision of powers is shaped in the law? I assume that he will give the intelligence services in his own right. According to Mr Baudet, what specific element is lacking in the way in which supervision has been designed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u110	There's two of them. One is the non-specific collection of data. The other is that it can be done through a political decision, rather than through a judge-supervisor as is normally the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr Baudet just made a mistake. The government cannot prosecute a Member of Parliament; the Public Prosecutor can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u112	That's not a mistake I made. If that had happened, that would be a mistake; that is the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u113	Good. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u114	I'm not prosecuting a Member of Parliament. All I'm saying is, if it's the case that politics has an influence on the prosecution and said, for political reasons, "go and prosecute this guy," that's about the biggest scandal you can have in a rule of law. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u115	Yeah, but that's how I like a few more. "If Germany invaded the Netherlands, that would be very bad." Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u116	Well, no, this isn't taken from the sky. Right now, as we speak, we're investigating this. Testimonies have emerged. There have been documents that have led to suspicion: boys, is it true that there has been political interference with the trial against Geert Wilders? This is not a total conjecture, and this is not a fable I am making up, but this is a real issue that is being treated as we speak in court and in other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u117	As a matter of fact, this is not at all the subject of this debate and of what you are taking part in. The point...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u118	Well, yeah, I do. It's exactly the subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u119	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u120	... what this debate is about, because it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u122	...about trust in the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mr. Baudet, I thought Mr. Van der Molen was busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u124	You've got that right, Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the subject on which I spoke to Mr Baudet because he speaks in great terms about the possibility of applying powers that are very important to people's lives on the basis of a political decision. I asked Mr Baudet what part he considered to be objectionable and what we are still missing. In answer to that, I find it difficult for a political decision to be taken. On the contrary, the law provides that politicians do not check whether or not the Minister has rightly given his consent, and that is precisely the objection you have, or whether or not the intelligence services do not just shoot a shotgun, but start looking for it in sufficient detail. That's totally cousin im Frage. It is precisely the law that has done so much more carefully. So, in view of your argument, what are you missing in the supervision of the intelligence services that this law does not create at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u125	As I have said, I am in favour of our classic tracking device, where you can have certain powers through a court commissioner to specifically monitor an organisation or a person. I'm not against the fact that phone taps can be placed. I am not against, for example, identifying an Islamic school or a mosque as a criminal organization and allowing you to eavesdrop on what is happening there and then possibly picking up people or disbanding the organisation. Those are all things that should happen if necessary. That's what I'm here for. But I think it is well known that this is an extension of the powers of the secret services to drag data in a broad sense. Therefore, it is also called a "drag law" to acquire so much more knowledge in the form of big data about the lives of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u126	Finally, Mr Van der Molen, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr Bosman has also made it clear that powers are being allocated here to an intelligence service which is not at all part of the intelligence services. You make comments about the supervision that is not regulated at all. We are not talking about powers at all in this debate, but about additional guarantees from the cabinet to monitor more closely. I conclude, like Mr Bosman, that you want to keep your story, but really do not know what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u128	In itself, the law entered into force on 1 May 2018. So that's already happened. We are talking about the changes that monitor better supervision, which GroenLinks says are insufficient and that we want more. That's what we're about to discuss. But the discussion is not about whether or not we are dragging.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u129	You don't decide what the discussion is about!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u130	No! Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u131	I think we have agreed that this is the subject of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u132	No, listen. I'm standing here to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Baudet, may Mrs. Buitenweg have her way...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u134	You'll see what kind of motion I'm going to table in the second term. That's gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u135	No! Mrs Buitenweg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u136	Looks like you've been using something that needs to be so active. There's just a proposition here. That's what we're dealing with. Let me explain, because I didn't have the impression that you were aware of that. But my question is another. You said: I actually want the Judge Commissioner to have the power to know when to act. Is Mr Baudet actually saying that he is against intelligence services in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u137	I have a major problem with a broad competence of intelligence services; yes, that's right. I understand that you need it in some areas, but there is a global surveillance system that I am beginning to find extremely frightening and threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u138	I agree with you on that. I have also always said that I am very concerned about the surveillance and the combination of data. So I agree with you. At the same time, I also think that there are some things that the police cannot solve, but which need to be done through intelligence, through intelligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u139	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u140	So that's actually what we're talking about right now. What guarantees would you like for your small organization? But you do say that you also accept that there are intelligence services. Then my question is: what guarantees for these services would you like to organise now which are not in the proposed law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u141	So I disagree, because all you want to talk about is the changes to that tow law in the broad sense. What I want to do is to make a fundamental point: that this drag law, the introduction of that drag law and the rejection of the referendum, is a scandal. And I'll say that in a second-term motion. I want to reverse that whole tow law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u142	Okay. Well, you can't tell me that I'm just restricting myself to this, because I've just brought in a lot of other laws to show that I'm worried that too much data is being shared. So I think it is very good to have a broader perspective, but I do want us here as a Chamber to look at exactly what we want to have changed. So, as a representative of the people, you have to have the task of simply having your broad opinion, and I totally agree with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u144	... but also say what needs to be changed. And that just doesn't make sense to me. So I still want an answer from Mr Baudet: is there some kind of amendment; is there something in the law as it is now before us, those amendments that we are discussing today, which you would like to see differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u145	It may surprise Mrs Buitenweg, but I will therefore go along with her argument of 'if you already have that law, then you must try to at least have a lot of scrutiny and control'. So we don't differ in that, there's little light in that. I just think that this is also the time to say that I am sorry, and I am really going over my own words to question it in principle. And what I miss in the social discussion, but also in the Chamber, is a general feeling of "boys, where are we going?" It's the same with that app, with that mass surveillance app they might want to enter now because of corona. Those are steps that can no longer be reversed at some point. And so I would like to add that, in my opinion, that is new to my input and also important to the fact that, on the one hand, we leave a great deal of what we can do with the classic means; the police are understaffed, the penalties are too low, the army is not well equipped, there is too little money going there and so on and so on. We don't all do that, and we want to compensate for that with some kind of invasion of privacy, with some kind of control over ordinary citizens that I just don't trust the government in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. That's a lot of bullshit. That is so far, but I actually heard Mr Baudet say that we shouldn't really want to tap that, that all these services can do things. He always says that when he doesn't like it. But I think he himself suggested that visitors there should be tapped, for example, in Rotterdam. For that he made a proposal a few years ago, with Eerdmans together, to register the imams, because you need to know exactly what they say. So when it comes to Muslims, he doesn't have any problems with the possible abuse of privacy, with large-scale tapping, because that's what comes out of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u147	Yes, this is a bit in line with what I said in my interruption to Mr Van der Molen. Look, I think it is very important that our services have the opportunity to tap people, spy on people, see what happens in Islamic schools and mosques, and in other places where there are reasonable suspicions that radicalism is being preached, there is a criminal organisation or planning a terrorist crime, etc. So I am a great supporter of an effective state apparatus, which can well guarantee the safety of all people. Only, the crucial difference is, of course, that you're going to work with a targeted search. So there's got to be a suspicion of guilt. I thought that's Article 27 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but that's what you need to keep me on, and then there's some tracking. And that always has to go past a judge-supervisor and so on, but that is how it is arranged in the Netherlands. That's the classic structure we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u148	But, Mr. Chairman, now he really contradicts himself in every sense. This is a form of a kind of free association. He's actually suggesting that we go secretly to a mosque and tap everything. That seems to me to be a form of dragnet, namely: of all the people sitting there, we want the information. That's not aimed at at all. He didn't mention that there had to be some kind of suspicion. That is not what this whole discussion is about either. I note that Mr Baudet says on many points, whether it is about democracy or about relations with foreign services or governments, such as Russia, that if things happen there that can harm me, I do not want to talk about it, but if it is at my service, it is absolutely right that I should use it. In addition, he did not think about how hypocritical his attitude actually is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u149	I honestly don't understand what Mr. Azarkan is trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u150	Then I suggest you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u151	Something came up with Russia, and a few more things that had nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u152	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u153	I hear someone say "Obama." Yeah, that's a very valid point. I can't wait to see what Obamagate's gonna come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u154	No, no, no. I suggest you move on. Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u155	Madam President. We live in a time of ever-increasing, serious restrictions on democracy. The referendum has been abolished. There's a censorship police on the social media. This minister even helped set up a desinfo agency. "Desinfo" is of course another word for unpleasant information. And now there's a danger that privacy will be further restricted. I'm really worried about where this is going. Effective enforcement of authority is made impossible and frustrated. There are no funds going to the police, the army, etc. needed to maintain authority in a normal way. But through the back door, through a restriction of privacy, we are still trying to achieve this. We will do what we can to reverse the tow law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-3.u157	I'm looking at the minister. Will that be enough for you to suspend until 1 p.m.? Yeah, is that enough? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m.
