ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u1	The next item is the VSO Regional networks for eating disorders in the North Holland and North region. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think it is very positive that more and more attention is being paid to young people with complex problems, and that efforts are being made in more places, but also in more expertise. In my opinion, there is also a need for a great deal of knowledge on how to treat young people with complex problems. We also see that in recent years too much has been focussed on one problem at a time, while, of course, we have young people who have multiple problems. They must be able to be helped. I would like to ask the Minister: how can we prevent too much money from being spent on coordinating aid rather than giving aid? Of course, we see this generally in the youth care sector, and it also emerged from the report that a while ago it was announced that 30% of the budget goes on co-ordination costs. I can understand why you shouldn't see that in black and white, but there's just a lot of money going to coordinate aid instead of giving help. I'd like to avoid that. There is one other point I would like to draw attention to, namely coercive measures. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that coercive measures may be included in the treatment of young people with complex problems;]] [[noting that it is not known how common it is;]] [[Whereas coercive measures may lead to trauma and recurrence;]] [[Whereas there is no consensus on the effectiveness and effects of coercive measures;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the frequency of use of such coercive measures;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the impact of coercive measures on young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-744]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u3	Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question. New figures were published yesterday about the number of suicides, including among young people. I know that in 2017 we have received a more detailed analysis of what is the background, but also an analysis of young people involved in youth aid. I'd like to ask the Minister if he knows if such an analysis is coming again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u4	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Peters. But he doesn't want to. I call Mr Wörsdörfer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u5	Mr. Chairman. In the written consultation we had on this subject, a point has rightly been made about the focus of the regional networks for eating disorders. Eating disorders are often the result of underlying trauma, and the treatment should look at that. So there must also be broad expertise on this, so that the aid workers, whatever help the young person gets, learn to find out more about the underlying problem. I have one more question, in addition to the question just asked by Mr Westerveld. I see that the development of regional networks and centres of expertise are taking on a separate form, and this must, of course, go hand in hand. Can the Minister therefore explain how he will ensure that there will not be all kinds of duplication and that there will soon be a lot of time, and hence money, in merging? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u6	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input and the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u7	The Minister shall reply to and appreciate the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u8	Mr. Chairman. A few questions and a motion. Mrs Westerveld asks how we prevent too much money from going to coordination rather than to giving aid. We have also discussed this in general consultation recently. I fully support that intention. There is a need for coordination, but the money has to go to aid, to help people who give help to children. That is what the money has to go for, and we will be watching very closely. This is what the arrangement will look like later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u9	So the motion will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u10	No, this was a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u11	Oh, I was too fast. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u12	Then another question: is there going to be an analysis on the suicide rates? They became known yesterday and broadly correspond to the year before. 2017 was really a peak year. Then a very extensive file analysis was done. I would like to ask Mr Blokhuis if he is going to explain the suicide figures in more detail and whether he wants to include the youth sector in this. I would like to give that further explanation, but that is not going to be as comprehensive a dossier analysis as it is in 2017. This is very labour-intensive and also rather burdensome for parents and aid workers involved. I'm sure I can give you an explanation of the numbers. Then there was a question from Mr Wörsdörfer, namely whether regional networks and centres of expertise could please build up together. I very much agree with you and they do. We see in the project management that it is woven together. Then there's a motion from GroenLinks. It calls for two things to be done, namely to identify how often coercive measures occur and to investigate the consequences of coercive measures. I'm going to dissuade that motion, because it's already happening. Firstly, there is a map of how often coercive measures are used. The Inspection will monitor this for ggz and for disability care and also for closed youth care. The closed youth care system itself records that and the IGJ records that in ggz and disability care. There is a reporting obligation. So that registration's already happening. In addition, a lot of research has been done. The consensus is that coercive measures should be applied as little as possible and as short as possible, precisely because we know that coercive measures are not without consequences. Especially when it comes to children with eating disorders, we know how disastrous these measures can be. In short, the outcome of the studies on the effects is precisely the reason why we are trying to reduce all kinds of coercive measures, such as separation. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u13	The motion in part No. 744 is not recommended. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u14	We also asked this question in writing. There is indeed a reference to the many investigations that have already been carried out into coercive measures. I've looked at that very carefully. When you look at those tests, you can see that a lot of research has happened a few years ago. The knowledge we have about effective measures is growing at a rapid pace. We can now do much more than a few years ago. I do not think it is timely enough when reference is made to research that sometimes happened ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u15	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u16	I would ask the Minister to look again at the motion, bearing in mind the fact that I have really gone into coercive measures, also because we know that a number of coercive measures are currently being applied to a number of people, and that some young people are really unwinding, even at the moment. I am looking for a way to make it clear that much more needs to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u17	That's clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u18	However, this urgency has been highlighted by your amendment. That's what we're doing right now. That is why these networks of expertise and centres of expertise are created. That's exactly what I think we're helping kids with the most. But I'm gonna do it differently. I am going to discourage the motion, but I am going to put the question to those networks of expertise and also to the youth psychiatry as to whether there is at present a lack of knowledge about the effect of coercive measures. I would say that sufficient research has been done, at least enough to know what to do, namely to reduce, reduce, and actually to minimise the number of coercive measures and, if possible, to choose something else. That's the direction we need to go anyway. We already know that. But I can see if there's another research gap. I'm gonna ask that question on the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u19	Thank you. The motion in part No. 744 continues to be dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u21	This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-64.u22	With your well-being, we will proceed with the VSO Data breach Donor Registry.
