ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the proposal from Mr Snels and Mr Van Weyenberg to amend the proposal from the Snels and Mr Van Weyenberg laws. It is the second time; now I understand the rules on access to information of public interest, Section 35112. I would, of course, like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in trade-K by Mr Jaap van der Heijden, policy officer at the GroenLinks Group, and Mr Marte van der Loop, also welcome, legislative lawyer at the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this legal process is planned at a later date, of course in good consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has always been critical of the initiative proposal Open Government Act. This does not mean that we do not share the starting point of the initiators: a transparent government, a government that lets itself be looked at by citizens and by representatives of the people. This can only improve policy and implementation; we agree on that. But the core task of the government is to perform, to guarantee security, to guide people to a job, to pay the benefits or to build a new highway. With all the good intentions that we are discussing this afternoon, we need to keep the work we want to introduce, feasible and affordable for the sake of public transparency. The CDA Group is still critical of the proposal, because we believe it can still be slightly improved. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators on their persistence and on the hard work they have put into further amending the original proposal. The proposal has been improved in terms of feasibility and affordability. The critics of the past alongside the business community seem to be able to support the new set-up. My colleague, Mr Amhaouch, took it on board in the previous debate precisely for those local authorities. Even now, in the financial situation of municipalities in 2020, they are not waiting for new tasks without adequate coverage. There is just as much about 100 million structuralally involved in this law for Rich and Co-Government. My first question is therefore for the Minister, who is present as an advisor: are funds earmarked for the implementation costs of this law? Mr. Chairman. If it is up to the proposers, the active disclosure of documents and information will now have to take place without a mandatory register. This increases the affordability of the law. However, since the law does not contain an exhaustive list of documents to be published, the CDA Group cannot escape the impression that governments will also have to decide, without registering each document, whether to make this actively public or not, and also to make that assessment and decision on a case-by-case basis. There may be no obligation to create a register, but the question is whether governments will eventually be able to do without a register. Are the fellow governments here happy with a dead sparrow, I ask the proposers. In addition, as far as the CDA Group is concerned, the active disclosure of information will only have the intended effect if this information can also be found by the citizen or, for example, by a journalist. It is just like open data: the principle is good, but the availability of data does not yet guarantee its manageability and findability. I would like to ask the initiators to respond to these two points: firstly, the need to register the active publication of documents in relation to the expired obligation to register, and secondly, whether the public will soon be able to see the forest through the trees and how. I ask the Minister whether she also has the idea, on the part of the Empire, that without the duty of care there can be an adequate and transparent implementation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u4	With regard to the register, I have a question. I assume that the CDA Group was not against a register in principle, but that there were major problems with its feasibility. That is why it has been removed from this bill. But now it seems as if the group says: we should never go there at all. Is it not possible that you will go there in the longer term, when our information systems are set up in such a way that you can think very well in advance of what kind of category is a document? That is not what this says, but is the CDA Group opposed to it in advance, or can it also imagine that we will work towards it in the long term if the information is in order in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u5	The question I have asked is actually about one of the key issues of affordability and feasibility, namely that the obligation to register has been removed from the proposal. Then you'd say, "There's no need to register." The question I put to the initiators is: that duty may no longer be in the book, and if you calculate it, it will save a lot of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For example, if you look at the provisions of the Archive Act, you will have to make sure that all documents related to this law are properly archived. You will have to consider: is this within the scope of the law? You have to record that, and you have to answer for it, because when people talk to you about it, you have to be able to put it back. The challenging question to the proposers is: have we now taken something out of the law that should take place in practice? If that is the case, then we can now pretend that there is no cost or less cost to be incurred, but then we will run into it in practice. I agree that this is also the question of clarity and transparency: we need to have something from a register or at least a consultable system to make that large bulk of information understandable. You can get a situation where someone from a municipality yells: yes, that's right there somewhere; go and look there. But if that is not to be found, then in principle we have organized publicity but you are still de facto empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u6	I actually wanted to ask another question, but now the colleague is taking me on a different path. Does that actually mean that the CDA Group feels that it is not enough without a register to unlock the information in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u7	It's kind of the cat and the dog with this law. I started by saying that nobody in this house is fighting this principle. I have also had a lot of discussions here about Article 68, about public access and so on. That's not what the discussion is about. The criticism of this proposal is very much about feasibility and manageability, and about who should and should not be included. The law must also be applied in practice. I think that the initiators never intended to make a law that would be impossible. But precisely from the point of view of data transparency and workability for, among other things, co-governments, I am asking the following question. You can get it out of the law as a duty, but that doesn't mean you don't have to organize it and you don't have to pay for it. That is the question I am asking the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u8	I have a very short factual question. Did I hear Mr Van der Molen say that we already need that register to implement the Archive Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u9	No, I didn't say that. I have included this example in order to show how things are going in practice. You can say "there is no obligation to register and that makes it easier to implement," but my point is that you will always have to organise something for this law. That's just how this law ultimately works out. That is why I asked the following question. You can take that duty out formally, but how does it work in practice? A great deal has been said about the obligation to register in the previous proceedings. The initiators also followed up on this. On the contrary, I think that this treatment is a good way to test whether on paper we have changed something that is going to work in practice, because we can come across that discussion again in a number of years if we have not made that clear in the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u10	Certainly, but it would also be good if Mr Van der Molen himself were to clarify. Under what conditions can he support it? I took over this dossier and I also read back what his colleague said four and a half years ago. Looks like it's never good. In abstracto it's protransparency, but when it comes to feasibility, it's never the right time, it's too narrow or too broad-minded and it's about structure rather than culture. I am therefore looking for what Mr Van der Molen would be satisfied with and what he wants, because that is what Mrs Buitenweg is right to say. Whether or not there's a register? If the answer is 'no register', what more should be done to make this law enforceable for Mr Van der Molen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u11	After the debate, I will be in a position to consider whether I think it is sufficient to support it or not. In the previous debate, my colleague indicated where the problems lie. These are partly addressed by the initiators in the proposal. That's fine. So there's no discussion about that. This debate is intended for me and for my group to weigh this kind of thing. With regard to feasibility, I have received the remark in discussions with organisations and fellow governments: you can write it out of the proposal, but in practice the effects and costs can arise. I just want to hear from the initiators what's going on. You will hear from me, especially in the vote, what my consideration is. This is not the only point we are raising, but I want to be able to weigh it. So again: we do support the principle, but if that law has a beautiful principle but is ultimately impossible, or has an impact that we do not find proportionate in relation to that, then we will vote against it. That's what we did last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u12	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u13	Well, it's an important bill, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u14	Yeah, we're just getting started. We've got all afternoon, so take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u15	I do not want to find out in the votes that it was not enough for the CDA representative. That is why I ask him now to clarify what is needed for him to be able to reconcile and make them proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u16	I am extremely pleased that Mr Sneller is so incredibly interested in what I consider to be my consideration. I understand that very well, but I can't give it to you in the first term. I have asked questions to the initiators who will return to me in the second term. I also think that the second deadline is appropriate to see whether we can make proposals for a change. That really depends on the answers. This proposal is double: on the one hand, it is a good principle and a good starting point, but on the other hand, it has an effect that may well go a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u17	I think that Mr Van der Molen of the CDA is a little more political and more practical than that he is now presenting himself in the sense of: I do not know it all yet and I need answers. There is a justified question: what then is your balancing framework? Because you say you have questions, but you don't give up what you need. The bill's already completely undressed. The register has been removed, as well as all kinds of other objections. The VNG is now in agreement. So what do you want to hear? What's your trade-off framework? Because that's not what you're saying. Then we may be able to think along with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u18	I haven't finished my input yet, so I'll mention a few more things. But clarity on this first point is important to us, also because in this Chamber we should not only test the principles but also the feasibility. In the meantime, we have put another committee to work, which is always getting rid of it: you can think of everything, but also think of the feasibility. I don't mind starting my input with questions about feasibility at all. In doing so, we are consistent with the input we made in the first period of the previous examination of this proposal. So on that basis and on the points I mention, I will consider whether this law has been sufficiently amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u19	But on the basis of the first treatment, the bill is already particularly undressed. I find these questions about costs to be correct: the municipalities cannot bear the costs that have been incurred. It seems to me justified to get an answer to that. But as far as the register is concerned. We have spoken and negotiated on all sides, we are now a few years ahead and the VNG, the representation of the Dutch municipalities, says on the basis of the proposal that is now before us: we can live with it. Isn't that enough? There has been a very long journey and I am sure that a lot has been said about it behind the scenes. So I'm just waiting on the other terms, but I don't really understand if this is a tough condition or just a question for... What's it for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u20	I understand the impatience, especially of those who voted in favour at the first time. So I understand that the egg has to be laid at some point, if only because, if it comes back again, we see a lot of the same names in the title of a debate. I understand that. But all I can say is that I am using this first term on behalf of the CDA Group to put these questions to the initiators. On this basis, we will assess whether further adjustments are needed or whether we can make a different assessment. I also make that assessment with my group. I can't do that until I put their questions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u21	Rounding up. Let me just point out that there will be nothing left if the bill is further undressed. Then it's just a coat rack without a coat, because it's in the closet. That would be my call. It's already really undressed. Let us at least ensure that something fundamental remains, otherwise I see no need to do anything about this transparency and openness at all. I will tell you in my own term why this subject is of great concern to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u22	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u23	Keep that in mind, too. We do have something to do with each other when we look at the affairs we've had from government land.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u24	I suspect that the final position of the CDA group will not depend on whether Mrs Kikken will still find, at the end of the discussion, whether she can support the law or not. I have not yet seen in the Chamber in the last three and a half years that this has been heavily placed in our group. I do not want to put it that way, because I understand that Mrs Kuik makes her own assessment, but my group is also responsible for that assessment. Her signal has been clear and addressed to the initiators, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u25	I suggest you continue, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u26	One of the much discussed exceptions in the current Public Administration Act are personal policy concepts. In the secrecy of policy preparation, no one should feel restrained from saying what he or she thinks or should no one feel restrained from playing the devil's lawyer in such a discussion, for example. In this decision, all considerations must be put on the table. The exception in the WOB is not to make those considerations secret, but to protect the participants in that internal reflection. If opinions can be traced back to individuals, that exception is justified. But the WOB also offers the opportunity to make personal policy views anonymized public. This is hardly used in practice. That is strange, as it can be used to share information, but at the same time the scope for officials to express their views freely is protected. I would ask the proposers to deal with the existing practice and guarantees for officials and how they look at active public access in relation to them. Shouldn't anonymizing also be the rule in this law? Mr. Chairman. In practice, requests are made under the WOB to receive a haystack of information for the purpose of finding the pin. Requests are made which are so large that the legal deadline can never be reasonably met, requests so large that the implementation burden causes the administrative authority to despair. On behalf of the CDA Group, therefore, I would like to ask the applicants whether it is wise to establish a basis for consultation with the applicant. The public authorities have an interest in making the scope of an information request accessible, but the applicant is equally interested in obtaining the information requested within a reasonable period of time. In many cases, a more tailored information request will be beneficial for both parties. The initiators strive for a cultural change in the administration's handling of citizens' information requests. The CDA Group is convinced that opening the dialogue between the applicant and the provider of information can contribute to this, especially if both parties are sympathetic. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State notes that the bill as it stands today does not deserve the beauty prize of simplicity. The system of obligations, exceptions and expunged entry into force may make the legislative proposal complex, perhaps unnecessarily complex. Article 3.3 (2) (k) provides for no less than 21 exceptions to the rule that decisions should be actively made public. In the case of exceptions, the Minister may make an exception in the case of general administrative measures. Then who can follow it, let's say it. Is that feasible in practice? In practice, the CDA Group sees problems with the current public disclosure regime for public sector information rarely deal with the category of decisions. Have the applicants considered excluding the category of decisions from the active publication obligation? If so, why did they not do so, but rather formulate 21 exceptions? Moreover, this category is so large and diverse that the expected implementation problems could be overcome to a large extent by removing this category from the legislative proposal. But the proposers didn't choose to do that. The CDA Group would like a more detailed explanation of this. I would like to put the same question to the Minister as an advisor, because this also affects the ministries in particular, which are active in many areas in this area. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group still attaches great importance to the amendments tabled during the previous debate and then rejected. This is the amendment that regulates business and manufacturing data to be regarded as an absolute ground for refusal rather than as a relative ground for refusal, and the amendment that regulates the extension of the scope of the law to... Well, I have really been tampering with the text. In any case, it is also the amendment that brings semi-governments under the scope of this law. These two amendments were co-tabled by the VVD at the time, so my colleague from the VVD will also bring it up. These amendments do something for usability and also for usability. In any case, I will give that to the authors, because I suspect that other colleagues will bring it up. I am also very curious to see how the initiators are now opposed to these amendments. Mr. Chairman. Publicity of public sector information is a necessary condition for the control of government policy by the parliament, by journalists and by any interested citizen who sympathizes with us. Despite sharing the principles of public access, the CDA still sees practically the necessary hurdles, as I have indicated. Because public access is not yet accessible. It is precisely in the abundance of information that we can ignore that accessibility. I would therefore ask the initiators, in particular, what opportunities they see for improving accessibility after improving public access. The legislative process we are now in is in itself a practical example of documents that are all public, but which can even be considered tough by the biggest fan because of the large amount of costs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u28	I'm just gonna take a sip of water first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u29	Yeah, that's always good. That does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I too would like to begin by warmly congratulating the initiators and their support on the proposal before us and, of course, on their stamina. The history of this bill goes back a long way, almost ten years. I also remember the great involvement of my GroenLinks colleagues Mariko Peters and Linda Voortman. In April 2016, all joint efforts resulted in the House of Representatives adopting the Open Government Act. I believe that was a modified version at the time. It's still ahead of us in the First Chamber. There had also been doubts. Doubts of people who fear that the execution is too expensive or too complex. The initiators then again spoke with a lot of people, including the cabinet, which in the government agreement stated that it wanted to come to a good law in cooperation with the initiators. With this amending law we are now in a new phase. A compromise, you might say. Like any compromise, that is not entirely painless, but it is also valuable when I look at it now. Because the many consultations have increased the support for the law, even for the governments that have to give hands and feet to it. According to an SMEA and the Cabinet, the law is enforceable and affordable. Mr. Chairman. Publicity of administration is very important for a democratic rule of law. My colleague said it, too. In a democracy, we can participate in the decision-making process by voting, in free and fair elections, but we should also be able to discuss whether the national government and local government have made the right choices. How do they work? Do you think we might be able to correct that? It is not just about performance, as Mr Van der Molen said, but of course it is also about correction. For this, the decisions themselves must be public and we must also understand how they have been made. Now we see that sometimes only after good journalism research or after documents have been leaked, and that is not good. In a wonderful document, report, from 2016 the WRR describes the development that is under way that citizens are becoming increasingly transparent to the government. That report was specifically about big data and algorithms that prevent decisions from being easy to follow. But, of course, there is no question of a truly transparent government if people's decisions are not known and the way in which decisions have been taken remains outside our field of view. Even then, the government is a black box. Even then, the government will become a little less of all of us and that will ultimately affect confidence. According to the Council of State, a transparent and active publicising government is important not only for citizens and good governance, but also for the economic development of our country. I think I'll just give it to you. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the starting point for public administration should therefore be that everything is public, unless there is a good reason not to disclose information. There is still a long way to go for this, because we still see too often the habit of being closed. In that culture it is also very complicated and very costly to unlock information, because that requires endless discussions, then easy delivery, then new discussion and finally a lot of coating away. I do not need to mention an exhaustive list of examples here, because I think we all know what to think about. Even according to the standards currently in force, insufficient information is provided. According to ABDTOPConsult, part of the high cost of public access was due to the late maintenance of the current information system. That is why it is necessary to bring this cultural change to a proactive government in which the minds and systems are set up to open up information: openness by design. That is the goal we are working towards. We are not alone in that. There are already some good examples, also local. Think, for example, of the municipality of Utrecht, which, in anticipation of the Open Government Act itself, has already started to pursue a policy of more active disclosure. Mr. Chairman. In order to bring about a change in culture, a change in law alone is not enough, but the new law proposed by the initiators can give the necessary cultural change a firm boost. I do not think anyone here will be surprised that GroenLinks was and is in favour of this law. However, I still have a number of questions and comments which I would like to put to the initiators and the Minister. First of all, I have a question for the initiators. It's about active disclosure. Why does Article 3.3 include the obligation to actively publish meeting documents of the provinces, municipalities and water authorities, but does this not apply to common arrangements? For example, we have seen with corona how important the security regions are. Now I read in the reply that the proposers said: yes, it was not in the picture for a moment. Or: the pieces also often come through Provincial States and Municipal Councils. Is that argument sufficient, or is there another reason why it is not included? Otherwise I shall consider a motion on this point. Then I'll come to the advisory board. How exactly do the initiators see the role of this? Can they comment on the types of expertise required in that college? That is also a question for the Minister. I can very well imagine that it would be desirable for someone with a journalistic background to take part in it, because it is precisely the Open Government Act that is also of great importance to journalists. I would also like to ask the Minister about the provisional committee which will now start under the chairmanship of Ineke van Gent. When is this committee really gonna get started? Can the Minister now also indicate what the budgets of the committee and later of the advisory committee are? How will they be supported and why does the Minister think that budget is sufficient? I think it is important to equip this club properly, because we want to keep a finger on the pulse and perhaps learn lessons along the way. The Open Government Act is based on a phased introduction. My group believes it is important to get an idea of the timetable. How much time does the Minister think is needed before the administrative bodies can carry out the mandatory active disclosure and the provisions of the Open Government Act can enter into force on that point? The Oosenbrug/Bruins motion, which was previously adopted in the Chamber, asks the Cabinet to ensure that two or more administrative bodies start experimenting with an information register within one year of the adoption of the Open Government Act, evaluating the effectiveness and cost of information registers already in place in these leaders. Can the Minister indicate what she has done with this in concrete terms? I would also like to hear more about how she is going to implement the Sjoerdsma motion on the provision of active information on the functioning of the Open Government Act. An important pillar under the implementation of the law is the multi-annual plan. Can the Minister comment on what the initiators in the note on the report say about what they expect from the multiannual plan? I read about concrete goals and means, and that both a short and a long-term perspective needs to be outlined. Does that correspond to her own expectations and plans? The Dutch Association of Journalists and the Open State Foundation suggest standardisation for information disclosure through the Forum Standardisation. That sounds like GroenLinks a good idea. Does the Minister see opportunities for this? Will it also make use of the power to lay down rules for active revelation in that regard? Finally. Journalists are concerned about the extension, or actually the long decision-making mines, which are experienced by the abolition of the penalty payment at the decision-makers' mines in the WOB. What is the stick behind the door to ensure that information is delivered on time? Does the Minister recognize the frustration about this? Is this real? And what does she want to do to counter this? Mr. Chairman. So much for my contribution in the first term. I look forward to the reaction of the initiators and the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u31	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. We were in favour of the Woo and we are in favour of the amended Woo, although Mr Van der Molen knows that my vote does not matter. But maybe the initiators still think it's relevant. I would like to congratulate the initiators. This bill has no smooth or simple history. It will take some time before the law becomes true. Nor is it a legislative proposal without criticism, both from people who are very much in favour of a change, and from people who are still very critical. It has finally come to an end and a number of important changes have been made. My first question concerns in particular the lack of a register. An important reason is that implementation costs proved to be too high. That is, of course, a justified point, and we should do something with it. The information system of many governments is not yet in order either. There have been many talks with the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. At the same time, it has been said that in future the information system will be in such a way that a register may be in the right place again. I would like to know from the initiators how they see this. How real or viable is this hope? I would also like to put that question to the Minister. How's she looking at this? What kind of time limit can we put on that? How does it fit into the multiannual plan that has been implemented? How concrete are the objectives and milestones? We know that a number of municipalities are at the forefront. They're trying to make that shot themselves. A number of other municipalities are well behind. How are we going to make sure that these two worlds are connected? Mr. Chairman. As I said, the original costs have been an important objection to stopping too, an important objection also from the VNG. VNG and IPO say they are now in favour of the Woo, but rightly it is said that the costs should not be passed on to the municipalities. So that's gonna happen? This is a question I would like to put to the initiators, but in particular to the Minister. How are these talks now and at what time is there clarity about that? I would also like to mention a number of other organisations. For example, in the execution test, I read that the police have occasionally lost 1.6 million. This also appears to apply to other organisations in the criminal justice chain. Will these organisations be compensated for the additional costs they have to incur in order to make Woo a success? I put that question to both the initiators and the minister. Finally, I would like to ask about the common arrangements. In the written round GroenLinks also asked specific questions about it. To be honest, I find it strange with GroenLinks that the common arrangements, which carry out an important task especially after decentralisation, have not been included. I would like to know from the initiators and the Minister why this was chosen. I'm rounding up. I can see why negotiations have been made. I understand that this is the compromise. I also understand the criticism of journalists, among others, when they are wondering whether this is helpful for what we want. That is, indeed, still very much to be tested. So it is also relevant to evaluate it. Apart from that, the most important thing is that we achieve cultural change together. There is now a parliamentary investigation into the implementation organisations. A parliamentary interrogation committee is currently in the process of dealing with the Tax Administration. Information provision, not informing, wanting to cover up or knowingly informing wrongly play a role in all these subjects. The moment we continue to allow that with each other, both at the rich and decentralised level, and if the culture is not "open, unless," then we can make laws until we have one of our ways but then not much is going to change in the end. My final question to the initiators and the minister is the following. What makes and is it necessary to change the culture so that we no longer paint and no longer paste, but that we are just public, because everyone in this country has the right to know how decisions are made, so that we learn from them and we can also trace them? This also saves us a lot of costs. It is made very clear how much it costs to be open, but what do you think it costs structurally when you are closed? I'm thinking about all the repairs you have to do, about concessions to get pieces over the table and about hiring extra people to figure out what didn't go well in the past. I think it would also be interesting to assess these costs in a structural manner. I wish the initiators every success and thank them in advance for their answers. I am not here for the full answer, but I will, of course, read the report and I will certainly be there for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of criticism of this bill, but the remarkable thing is: so do the proposers. I want a completely different law, but Mr Snels and Mr Van Weyenberg also want a completely different law. In fact, that law is already there. It was submitted in 2012 and approved by this Chamber in 2016. Then, on behalf of the House of Representatives, we sent the petitioners across the street, the Senate. And, yeah, that's where they got stuck. Then what did those senators do? Did they agree to that law? No, they didn't. But they didn't approve him either. What did they do? They gave the boys an incredible pile of homework! Then those guys got to work and they worked hard. They have worked for a long time, I think they have spoken to everyone in the Netherlands. And four years later, they come here with a new bill and what do we do? Yes, I have a lot of criticism, I have a lot of criticism. The purpose of this law is... yeah, look, government information isn't government, it's people's. The Minister may be able to confirm that, but without a register, it is impossible for people to get information. The Minister can make all kinds of exceptions for government organisations in this law, just without the Chamber knowing, without the Chamber hearing it. And more generally, this law is intended to put public sector information in order. But what does it turn out to be? Public sector information is not in order, so the law needs to be amended. All fundamental criticism, but again, I'm afraid the gentlemen agree, and what do we do? I don't know. What we can do, all make amendments, change the law again, restore the law so that it becomes a bit like it was. It is possible, and perhaps there is still a majority for it in the Chamber. But, yeah, we'll send those guys across the street and they'll knock on a closed door again. And now I hear from the CDA that they want to mess with this even further. So the first question... yes, a devil's dilemma, we want a better law, but I don't think we'll get a law. And this law may be the only one we can get. In order to do that, I would also say to Mr Van der Molen that I would appreciate it if the boys would give a report. Because in 2016 we sent the representatives of GroenLinks and D66 to the other side in the name of the Dutch parliament. We haven't heard from him in four years. So I'm actually curious about the adventures. What happened? What happened across the street? What happened all these years? Yes, what are the adventures that you have experienced and why has that led to this law and, perhaps important, why do the authors think that this law is going to make it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u35	That was very clear, Mr. Van Raak. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snoeren on behalf of the VVD. It's your maiden speech. As usual in this house, the speaker is not interrupted during his maiden speech, so you can say anything, it's now or never, then it's over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u36	Don't push me, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u37	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday when I drove home, I thought, "I'm all set, my maiden speech." Surprising though, when I opened my e-mail and saw that the schedule had been turned over. And that is not the way I am now talking about Mr Van den Bosch's own initiative proposal and Mr Van der Molen's proposal on external presidents, but about the Open Government Act. So, Mr President, I apologize for not sticking to the eight minutes I've given up. But perhaps this is clearly the baptism of fire that is appropriate to the hectic of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. More than a month ago I was standing in this room and I was sworn in as a Member of Parliament for the VVD. That was a very special moment. It also made it special that despite these bizarre corona times my family was there, a family that is central to me in many choices I make. Today is another special moment, the moment when I can speak here for the first time. Fifteen years ago, I decided to join the VVD. One of my reasons was my professional military experience for the Royal Marechaussee, but also what happened then, fifteen years ago, in our country. As a professional military, I have gained many valuable experiences both at home and abroad. For example, during several broadcasts, including in Bosnia, Iraq and Kosovo, I have experienced how extremely grateful people can be if you help them or give them a form of freedom and security. Sometimes a friendly smile or a pet over the orb of a child was enough to watch those children and those people grow. For children in particular, this freedom is far from self-evident, and perhaps that is also true of the openness we are talking about today. Those kind of moments made me feel valuable and good. At the same time I got the feeling in the Netherlands that we lost the grip a bit. Events such as the murder of Theo van Gogh, the hours-long occupation of the Laakkwartier and the various threats made me feel that freedom was not so obvious in the Netherlands. As a military police officer, I was also involved in the security of some politicians. I regret to say that it has a huge impact on them. I find it sad that, then and now, this is still necessary in a country like the Netherlands. Unfortunately, the theme is still topical. I simply see that fellow chamber members and directors are still being harassed on the streets and even worse. Mr. Chairman. Just as important for my decision to go into politics were the regular conversations with colleagues, friends and family. Beautiful, positive conversations about the future and nice conversations about things that we would like to improve, but also conversations where you might hear people grumbling about what is and isn't good. And yeah, sometimes you just grumbling along. At that time, I realized I wanted to do more than just grumbling. I realized I wanted to do more to leave a safe and free environment for my children as well. The choice was simple: becoming politically active and putting your hands together. This resulted in a period of ten years in the city council of Nieuwegein and now, since the end of September, the House of Representatives. I think it is a privilege from this place, in a totally different role than as a professional military, to be able to mean something again for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I now had such a nice link to the proposal put forward by Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Van der Molen, but well, then we will do so later! I do think that my experiences as a professional military officer, as a civil servant, as a father, as a councilman and as an entrepreneur can also tell me a lot about the Open Government Act. I have learned that openness and transparency are a great asset, conditions for a functioning democratic state. Whatever's allowed must be verifiable. The Open Government Act should replace the 40-year-old WOB. In terms of cars it would now be a classic and we should actually cherish that WOB, but a classic also requires a lot of maintenance. Now we put a new car in front of the door with the Open Government Act. That is perhaps more of a concept car, a car of the future, to which it has to be done in order to really function properly. This development has been going on for eight years. That is not without reason, I think, because the impact of this law is considerable. Both in terms of feasibility and finance, the impact has been unclear for a long time. My group sincerely wonders whether it is sufficiently clear, as witnessed by the many questions and comments made by the various political groups during the written input and the critical opinion of the Council of State. In particular, complexity is an important point which the Council of State appoints, but which the proposers are reasonably easy to overcome. Why, we're wondering. We also wonder why the proposers have not chosen to look seriously at suggestions made in previous treatments by my group and others. We then made suggestions on the scope, business and manufacturing data and personal policy concepts. This is a missed opportunity to gain greater support for this proposal. I would like to hear from the authors, more than in the report, why this choice has not been made and why our proposals have not been taken seriously. Is there still room for us to watch this together? Just like then, there is still a lot of uncertainty about business and manufacturing data from companies doing business with the government. There is uncertainty about the risk that the business and manufacturing data of these companies will be on the streets. As in 2016, the applicants have not yet been able to provide a clear answer to this question. In Article 5.1, the grounds for refusal of business and manufacturing data are relative and VNO-NCW has also expressed a great deal of concern about this on several occasions, as it affects entrepreneurs hard. Signals that companies are struggling to enter into a public-private partnership have already reached me. For the VVD this is and remains an undesirable situation. Do the proposers think this is desirable and why did they not discuss this issue with the business community? Because openness and transparency are a good thing and give us the opportunity to control the government, but to take the private sector directly into account is too much for us. In terms of scope, there is still a great deal of uncertainty for semi-public organisations in particular. Yes, much has been improved over the past eight years, but it may still be the case that by means of a general measure of governance private institutions with a public role are covered by the law. This is a major violation of the autonomy of the private institutions. Previously, the Council of State referred to this as a fundamental breach of existing relations between the public and private sectors. A similar remark is also made in the 2017 impact analysis. Furthermore, the applicants have not answered questions that have been asked before: what do they want to see in this AMvB and what documents should be public? I'd like an answer to that. I think the business community has a right to know where it is going. Officials must be able to work freely. Mr Van der Molen already mentioned this. This law seems to be violating that. I would like to know again from the authors why they expect that these officials will not feel limited to express themselves freely in the course of policy advice or decision-making. I would also like to ask whether the applicants can comment on the suggestion of CNV Government and Public to clarify those disclosures more precisely. Mr. Chairman. We are still considering amendments to the three points mentioned above. Then there is one final point of concern: finance. A lot has been said about it. After the quickscans, the SMEA and the implementation tests, the amount has fallen considerably, but still results in a significant amount of money to make this law possible. There is simply no such amount. One condition of the umbrella organisations has always been linked to that real compensation of the costs that local authorities have to incur. There is now a possibility of agreement on the level of these amounts, but there is still no real commitment on how that compensation is to take place. Perhaps the Minister can clarify this, and also how we think we can bear the rest of the costs of implementing and implementing this law. Apart from the compensation, we must also ask ourselves whether this is the time to allocate such amounts and ask fellow governments to implement them. Municipalities are still busy with decentralisation and need time to put things in order. If we ask fellow governments and administrative bodies to put this information system in order right away, this also requires a considerable effort. Do the proposers consider that realistic at the moment, or do we perhaps ask the impossible? Mr Van der Molen more or less also mentioned this. Locking up. I would like to thank the authors for all the hard work they have put into it. As Mrs Kuik said, it is quite persistent. Perhaps we can come to a conclusion during this period, because for the VVD too, openness is a very important pillar of our democracy. We have to deal with this pillar carefully. That would be a very nice end to my speech, but it's my maiden speech, so I'm going to make it a little more personal. I learned in my time at the Marechaussee that the right information and the right amount of information is incredibly valuable. With the right information, we saw an opportunity to tackle criminal networks, combat human trafficking and create security in war zones. That does not alter the fact that not all the information was suitable for everyone. Information in the wrong hands could lead to serious incidents and a fatal outcome. Now I understand that this comparison is slightly flawed, but the point I want to make is that it is important that we find the right balance in public. As far as the VVD is concerned, that balance does not yet exist in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you. Thank you for your lovely contribution, too. I think your profession as a professional military is very useful in the Chamber, because of all kinds of new situations in the hectic. You know how to play into that. You have adapted immediately, so as far as I am concerned, I hope to see you often. Thank you. I see a beautiful bunch of flowers from your colleagues, so I will suspend the sitting for a few moments. In this corona time it is a bit difficult to give you a hand, but congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u40	I call Mr Martin Bosma, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. See, now that's a maiden speech as it should be. We can all learn something from that. It's too late for most people, but a maiden speech is supposed to be personal, it's supposed to come out of your toes. Mr Snoeren, our new colleague, has shown this. That's a great story. Theo van Gogh. That, by chance, was the reason for me to go into politics. So there's an agreement. Mr Snoeren is from the KMar. He has also secured politicians, so colleagues of ours. We cannot thank those people enough, because they ensure that many of us, including my group leader, who is a great customer, can safely and simply survive on the streets. So my thanks are great. Mr President, I think we still have to do something about the protocol in corona time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u42	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u43	We're all gonna bend and make half salutes. That's a point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u44	Maybe you could put this in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u45	It is indeed a good point for the Presidium to standardize that. But welcome, anyway. Thank you for joining us. Then about the law. Many of the previous speakers spoke mainly about citizens. I want to say something about journalism. Sometimes there are some points of light in Dutch journalism. One example is the way in which Mr Pieter Klein of RTL has got himself into the famous case of the surcharges, which, of course, has enormous repercussions, as we see every day. He is rightly praised for this. There is, especially in progressive circles, very much released on conspiracy theories and conspiracy thinkers. My party was thrown before the feet to believe in conspiracies regarding the Wilder Process. Then everyone said: those crazy PVV's believe that the Public Prosecutor's Office is conspiring with The Hague politicians... ha ha ha! But then, thanks to the same Mr. Klein, the pieces surfaced and what turned out to be? The conspirators were just right. There was indeed just a conspiracy. The Public Prosecutor even discussed the press releases with the Ministry of Justice. It was worse than we thought. And how did that get up there? Thanks to the WOB. Forty years old, but apparently alive. My conclusion is that the WOB works. Maybe not optimal, but it just works; it works. Today we are discussing the Open Government Act, the proposed successor to the WOB. The Netherlands was one of the first countries to have such a law 40 years ago. In 2009, it was Minister Hirsch Ballin who did not sign the Treaty of Tromsø because that was actually unnecessary. We were a lot further. Thanks and tributes to the initiators who are now in trade-K. It took some parliamentary archaeological digging to find out the history of this initiative law. It goes back to Mariko Peters of GroenLinks. Many others have looked into it. My group voted in favour at the time. It's wonderful that both gentlemen have taken over the defense. It's worth a compliment in itself. Congratulations! We see that Mrs Peters' original proposal has now been considerably weakened. I understand, because that's how it goes. The Second Chamber was in favour, but the First Chamber was against. So what do you do? You either throw the proposal in the trash or you're gonna work on it. The keys are done. Quite a bit has disappeared from the original Woo. By the way, do we say "woo" or "woo"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u46	I hear from the proposers that it's "woo."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u47	Just the "woo," otherwise you'll get confused with Jimmy Woo. It's just about the Woo. For example, the limitation of decision-making deadlines disappeared. That's quite an important thing. The independent information commissioner, who nevertheless had a certain power of perseverance, actually disappeared, I say in the direction of Mr Snoeren. Furthermore, the register disappeared where a journalist can actually just choose from a menu: do this one and this one. All too expensive. I understand that, but a lot has changed. The definition of the active disclosure of documents has also been modified. And that is, after all, the crux of the whole bill. Much is now being said about cultural change. Maybe I'm too cynical, but in a Hague policy piece, that's often code language for: we can't or dare not set rules and so we're guessing that there's going to be a cultural change. We see many intentions. We are also seeing an eight-year period in which this digital information system should be put in place. It also literally says that that's "a cautious estimate"; well, well, well. The scope of the law is ultimately limited. It does not concern the judiciary, not the NPO, not the Dutch Bank. All these terrible agreements, such as the Climate Agreement, the social agreement and the pension agreement, are also affected: none of them. We've lost the obligation to register. After all, there's no more duty of care. How's that going in practice? How feasible is it then? That pretty clear toolbox is gone. Is it gonna be easier to get information? After all, that is the crux. The other question is what is actually wrong with the WOB. The Minister can make all kinds of exceptions. That is understandable, but doesn't it open the door to a great slackening of the law? Can I do a chuckle and ask for a timeline? I don't know if the two gentlemen have adopted this bill since the beginning, but they've gone on the farm. They blew up in the First Chamber. How did they then fit and measure? There's been talk with VNO-NCW. Journalist unions are still dissatisfied. How does that work? I'm just interested. Did one angel go out in favour of the other party? I just want to know. I'm very curious about that. Mr. Chairman. Funny thing is, GroenLinks is here. That party played a dominant role in the Climate Agreement with its subsidised action groups. That is one of the most disastrous decisions ever taken in the Netherlands. The reports are coming up. We can just read: "President. Kees Vendrik..." Mr. Vendrik is a former colleague of ours. He is former Second Member of Parliament of GroenLinks. GroenLinks is the party of transparency. The rest of those reports have been wiped out completely. It just said that the meeting started at 5 p.m. That's all the censorship can do. We must not know how the climate mafia is blotting billions and billions on the basis of its own conspiracy theory. Are the proposers willing to commit to "a changing world" and "begin with yourself"? Are they prepared to call for the Minutes of the Climate Agreement to be released? Many people are waiting for this from the supporters of both sides. It would be a fine gesture and would further increase the credibility of the proposers. The proposers are from D66 and GroenLinks. In Amsterdam D66 and GroenLinks reign. GroenLinks even supplies the mayor, Mrs. Halsema. D66 is the biggest party. That is a wonderful opportunity to prove that it is not just woolly words, but that the ideals of both parties are also being put into practice. Well, the spirit of an open government hasn't quite descended on our left-wing brothers in Amsterdam. A headline in the paper was next. "Rekenkamer: Gemeente Amsterdam keeps too many documents secret for too long." Once again there is plenty of sneakyness. I quote: 'It is remarkable that a large part of the documents have been declared secret for an indefinite period, which, according to the rules, means 75 years'. Citizen: Can I see the document? Official: Sure, of course, that's the law. Citizen, give it to me. Official: in 75 years, you'll be the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mind if I finish my story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u50	Depends on how long that takes. Yeah, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u51	The Director of the Court of Auditors says: we have a strong impression that the attitude and culture of the organisation, and perhaps also of the College and the Council, are not entirely focused on the public as much as possible. How is that possible and how has this grown?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u52	I actually had a factual correction. Mr Bosma believes that D66 is the largest party in Amsterdam. I'm gonna have to let him down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u53	And not just him, calls the representative of D66. Do you have any more bad news for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u54	I think this is shocking enough. I can reassure Mr Bosma by saying that the largest party in Amsterdam has also asked questions about this. His speech is therefore a confirmation of the enormous importance of bringing about a cultural change throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u55	Yes, but this is GroenLinks' culture, which is in power in Amsterdam and has the opportunity to show that it is really serious and not just vague talk. GroenLinks rules in Amsterdam. Mrs Buitenweg said in her speech: we all remember the things that have been done away with. I yelled right then, "Climate agreement." Maybe that wasn't what Mrs Buitenweg was referring to. However, I note that D66 and GroenLinks certainly talk a lot about openness and transparency, but in practice it is a bit disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u56	I have a very short question. I had tabled a motion to the General Affairs budget to make the agenda of the Council of Ministers public. It had almost reached a majority, but the PVV voted against it. I never really understood why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u57	I don't remember a-two-three like that either. Shall I take a look at that and come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u58	It's appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u59	Because it doesn't ring a bell to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u61	Ms Ollongren was deputy mayor in Amsterdam for four years. She could have done it nicely at the time, but she didn't. Perhaps both proposers can still do some evangelization work in their own circle. Mr. Chairman. My thesis is that the WOB works. Why not improve the WOB? Why new shoes when the old ones aren't up yet? That's what I'm asking the proposers. What exactly is wrong with the current WOB? I note that the current WED is indeed a problem, for example, that it is taking far too long. Then as a journalist you finally have something to catch, but then you are already two cabinets, lectures or whatever else. Then there's no point at all. Also a lot of it gets wiped away. Those black pencil stripes are pulled like crazy. You can object, but then the whole party starts again. Moreover, an administrative body often decides on itself. So it's like toilet duck, "we believe it's all going well" et cetera. It's all not news that training works anymore, but you might think of a new instance that can quickly give a judgment, so that it is actually carried out. Such an information Commissioner, here we go again; that is Mrs Peters' idea. If you take it out, what's left in the end? 'Cause then the pressure's gone. Then I think: if that phenomenon is gone from the original Woo, it's a bit like a tiger without teeth. If the tiger doesn't have teeth, shouldn't we just keep the old WOB? That register of documents would, of course, have been crucial. In short, I note that the animal has been seriously castrated. My question is very simple: shouldn't we just keep the WOB, which adapts with some of the things I mentioned and make it just better? Then we'll make it easy on ourselves. An amendment and then we'll be there. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u62	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Snoeren on his beautiful story. I would like to congratulate the authors and the support for the work they have put into this law. I have been able to follow these efforts very closely over the past few years, especially through my colleague and roommate Van Weyenberg, who often came in during the morning with the announcement: I was at Snels again about the Woo. It's turned into a hell of a file together. It clearly shows how difficult it is to make real progress on the issue of public access and a transparent government. It's very easy to say what you're against. It is also relatively easy to formulate in vague terms what your solution direction is about. But I think that the two spokesmen of taxes and surcharges in trade union K will recognize that as well. It is very complicated to make these constructive solutions concrete and to write them down in legal texts or policies. If you have done so after a lot of effort, the obstacles are ready with the proven arguments: it's too expensive, it's impossible and it's not the golden oldie, it's not the structure, it's the culture, so let's leave everything to the old and press charges and make another appeal. Fortunately, the initiators have shown not to sit down but to work. So, four and a half years after the initial debate on the Open Government Act, we are standing here again before the examination of the Amending Act, which, in accordance with the government agreement, shows how the intended extension of openness can take shape without high costs for the organisation and implementation. Congratulations also to the Minister for having carried out this task of the coalition parties as included in the coalition agreement and having reached an agreement with the proposers. Mr. Chairman. The Open Government Act, abbreviated Woo, is intended to provide a cultural change for the government in the active disclosure of public sector information. Not passively requested but on its own initiative becomes the starting point. The right to active disclosure is now also exercised by administrative bodies under the Public Administration Act, but this power is very little used. The WOB also gets its awareness of the WOB requests. The word already says it: the requests for disclosure. This disclosure is also variable, to put it mildly; reference has already been made to it a few times. So I think this is a step in the right direction, because citizens are entitled to that information. As Mr van der Molen said in a motion two weeks ago, the government is there for the citizen and not the other way around. Or his colleague Omtzigt, who said in a beautiful speech earlier this month: a self-conscious government voluntarily submits to sound control. A self-conscious government is self-transparent. In order to restore confidence, we need to renew this social contract, which requires control and transparency. So a good proposal, but why such a long treatment? It has been mentioned several times: the devil is in the detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u64	Of course, I don't want to stir up a good marriage, but it's in the coalition agreement. Now we are always used to the fact that if something is in the coalition agreement, the coalition parties are pulling together. Here we see that there is a huge gap between the parties. One wants one, the other wants the other and the other wants the other. How does Mr Sneller explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mr Snoeren has escaped my question on this on very legitimate grounds, but I think that Mr Van der Molen... That is also why I asked what more needs to be done if the feasibility and SMEA are positive and the new implementation tests show that it can be done. I think the Minister at least... It is not the cabinet that concludes a coalition agreement, but the coalition parties. They asked the Minister to consult with the initiators. I see that this has been met and that the organisation and implementation have come to much lower costs. So I think that's done. But we are going to wait for Mr Van der Molen's second term as he has promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u66	I look forward to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u67	Good to know. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u68	The devil is in the detail and there is a price on public access. Mrs Kuik rightly called for attention to be paid to the benefits, but of course there are also costs. Some parliamentary research and interrogation committees working also show that it is important to look at the feasibility of new laws, even if their obligations were already in place on the basis of old laws. I must add that somewhat cynically, because that seems to have been the case here. The previous version received quite a bit of criticism because of the high implementation costs. The initiators have amended the law. They have made changes compared to the previous version. For example, there were large cost items in the register, active disclosure and disclosure of all documents after five years. Unclearness and sometimes also by the initiators unintended interpretations of articles may have allowed costs to be incurred by the previous law. That's out of the question now. The initiators have brought clarity. For example, the documents are more clearly defined, the obligation to publish all documents after five years has been completely written out and the register, a large cost item, has disappeared. However, several speakers have rightly said that this is also a missed opportunity for citizens looking for public sector information. Perhaps a point of profit for feasibility and therefore for feasibility, but also a loss. Following these changes, therefore, a positive SMEA emerged, and the municipalities, provinces and waterboards were also positive and said that they were able to cope with this proposal. But rightly so, we have asked for this earlier in other debates too, and there is concern about the compensation of the costs. I refer to Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act. It would be a good idea for the Minister to say more about this in her opinion. The bill we are discussing today is therefore feasible and affordable. The main objections to the original legislative proposal have thus been removed. This should also be done by the groups that said last time that cultural change cannot lead to peace of mind. And yet it remains tempting for me to take up a number of points from the previous legal procedure, as Mr Bosma rightly did. I am thinking, for example, of the information Commissioner who was killed last time per amendment, but who is still in favour of it. Would it not be an idea, I ask the initiators, to set it up with a kind of sunrise clause? In the case of the sunset clause, the horizon clause, the Commissioner lapses, but you could also think of the opposite, that the Commissioner will be set up after the temporary college can be lifted. Wouldn't that be an idea? With regard to the temporary college, I have a question for the Minister, who was also asked by Mrs Buitenweg. Would it not be an idea to include at least one representative of social and journalistic stakeholders, as they asked us to do? As far as D66 is concerned, this change remains at the heart of the matter, and that is the active disclosure of public sector information as a starting point, and that duty will contribute to the desired cultural change, with the law as a lever, but not as the only method. If you're reading the Woo, it's actually a long list of documents required to be made public, and then a much more compelling phrase. But there's still more to be desired. I briefly mentioned the register. A missed opportunity. Would it not be an idea, when the information system is in order, to put this forward? If you have that better in mind, it shouldn't be so expensive and so complicated. For example, the same journalistic domes and other transparency fighters also suggested a less detailed register, which does not contain every e-mail, but at least handles at the theme level. Has this been looked at in making this law more enforceable? If so, what did that come out of it? If not, are they prepared to reflect on that? An information officer will then be made compulsory by administrative bodies. I have some questions about that. What does an information officer like that do? Is that gonna send you information, too? How much capacity should be available for this? Is that always a person or can it be automated once the information system has been put in order? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few loose questions. PvdA and GroenLinks already asked about this common arrangement, the security regions and the security council. What possibilities do the proposers see for their inclusion? Or did we misunderstand the law so much that it already covers it? Conversely, I understand that there are restrictions in the framework of supervision at DNB and AFM and the freedom of the press at NPO. But would the initiators like to explain in more detail what the consequences for the WED are of what they are presenting to us? Then there are the personal policy ideas, for which the CDA asked attention. The amendment to which the VVD spokesperson referred tried to make it more restrictive, while the CDA brought it more from the point of view of making more public, but then anonymized. I would like a reflection of the initiators and of the Minister. I understand that you have to have a free exchange of views and internal contradiction. This is important in good policy preparation, but in order to understand what decisions have been taken, it is good that that information can become anonymised publicly. I will leave the Standardisation Forum aside, because Mrs Buitenweg has said enough about this. I'm gonna close with those deadlines. At the moment, my feeling is that the mines are a kind of paper reality, that they are often suspended and that there are too many possibilities for that. This legislative proposal, by putting the information system in order, can help to bring paper reality and actual implementation closer together. But I also wonder: if the information system is in order and the paper reality and the actual implementation are brought closer together, should we not go about shortening the decision-makers? For I understand very well that they are too long and, for example, further consultation with the applicant, as Mr Van der Molen suggested, could perhaps be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u69	I have a very simple question, because in the end I don't understand. Why didn't we just keep the WOB? My story was: the WOB doesn't work optimally, but it works. So why not just two, three or four amendments to change the pain points I mentioned? Those poor people have spent years in each other's study and in the First Chamber and all that. Why be so difficult when it can be very easy? Or am I saying something really stupid right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u70	In any case, I would like to see Mr Bosma's amendments to this kind of legislation. I think a number of things could have been done in the WOB, such as an information commissioner. But I think that the more compelling formulation of this active disclosure is actually where the problem with the WOB is a little bit more structural, and that, in my view, is the effect that we are discussing here. This promotes active disclosure, makes it the norm and makes it much more compelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u71	Yes, but what "active disclosure" means is in fact a combination, because that definition has already been made somewhat weaker in this version. Again, those few little things that we're getting extra now, couldn't we just have been in the WOB really simple? If you'd just made a few minor adjustments, you'd be there, right? Try to explain that to me, because I honestly don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u72	If that is the case, then it is a bit unfortunate that we have never been able to see it in recent years, I say to Mr Bosma. I would have liked to have seen that adaptation law, to show you how it can be easier. If it were easy, I think these initiators would have spent their time better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-6.u74	The continuation of this legal process is planned at a later date, of course in good consultation with the initiators. Thank you. I thank the Members of Parliament.
