ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	Then let's move on to the next topic. That is the VSO Study Vouchers and commitments of the general consultation of 16 October 2019 on DUO (24724, no. 169).......................................................................................................................................................................... I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. When the loan system was introduced, it was agreed that students would receive a study voucher which they could later use to study further. But this arrangement, to put it mildly, does not work optimally. Last June, together with my colleague Van der Molen, I proposed that the voucher should be used immediately after the study. After all, that makes much more sense: many students who are studying would like to stick to another study, especially at a time when it is difficult to get a job. The reaction we got then already surprised us. I don't know if the minister knows the British comedy series Little Britain, but there's receptionist Carol, who says on all sorts of logical questions: computer says no. That is also about the reaction we received, namely that the motion could not be carried out. The minister then wrote that it was not possible to adapt DUO's systems in time. That is why we tabled another motion with a rather simple request during the budget debate with the CDA and the SP. The money for this is reserved, so we asked: pay that out to students now, for example by reducing the student debt. Even then, the Minister said that it was difficult to carry this out. Later, during a written consultation, it appeared that there were quite a few possibilities, but that there was a need for a cash drawer. The Minister would come back to that in the spring note. When the reaction came, we read: "However, the required cash slide could not be integrated into the national image. This means that the held motion Rog, which focuses on the return of the voucher, cannot be carried out." That's official language for: I don't know why it can't be done. But this compensation is more topical than ever in our opinion, because we are dealing with students who are facing financial problems because of corona. It's hard to find a place on the labour market. That is why we hope that we will look carefully at what is possible for students. We are about to join a motion that Mr Van der Molen is going to table, but I would also ask the Minister to explain what is going on with the previous requests that we have made. Is it real: computer says no? Doesn't the Minister of Finance want it? Or is there another reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	That computer, of course, is all of us, isn't it? We in the House of Representatives are ultimately in charge of the state budget. You are actually saying that the Minister of Finance does not see the room to shift the money. Do you see it and where do you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	In my opinion, there was a very clear request from the Chamber that was the motion we submitted last year to investigate whether students could immediately use the voucher for a follow-up study after obtaining the first study. That was the question. The reaction was that DUO's systems could not be adjusted properly, not in time, while at that time there was work on revising DUO's systems to carry out that motion. That is why we have tabled a second motion. The Chamber's request is clear. We only hear from the Minister that it cannot be carried out. That is why I am asking: what exactly is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am not talking about the systems at DUO, but about the idea that a cash drawer would be needed to bring that money forward and to deploy it earlier, so that students can use it, which I would also like. But we get back that the Treasury says it's just not feasible, not so much because of the systems but because it doesn't have that money. Then the question is: do you see it and where do you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Actually, the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	Maybe I'll answer the same question. This is money that is reserved in the future and intended for students, money that they can use to pay for their studies later. So that money's there for those students. In this motion, we are asking for that money to be brought forward and, therefore, for students to be able to use it now, because it simply appears that this scheme for study vouchers, introduced with the best intentions, does not work as it was expected at the time. We do think that for those students who are unlucky that they did not have enough to deal with the pre-investments, but who did have to deal with the loan system, you should do something back. That is why the specific request was to bring forward the proposal to use that money so that these students can now make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Good to see you again. I was standing here last Tuesday about vouchers, with Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen. Because nowadays a lot of Dutch people have vouchers. We like it when people have a free choice as to what they do with it. That is why I supported the call that was made earlier to say: give students the choice to use it, if necessary, to reduce the student debt. That, of course, requires that the money reserved for much later be brought forward a great deal. What the Minister is actually saying is: yes, I went to look at the education budget for that, but then you would have to cut back. I hope we all don't want that. The alternative is to get to another budget, where expenditure can be postponed. Of this, the Minister of Finance is now indicating that this cannot be done. The rich budget will be volatile in the near future. It is not unthinkable that projects will be temporaryised. I hope not in education, but perhaps in other departments. Can the Minister promise us that she will keep this wish of a large part of the House of Representatives at the top of the agenda, in my view, in order to ensure that if that opportunity arises through the temporalisation of projects, which study vouchers can still be given to students?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I think that Mr Paternotte of D66 could not have said it better: in this Chamber there has been a longstanding desire to describe what Mr Futselaar has previously described as a sort of glorified tourist voucher, the study voucher of which at least 99% of students do not know that they could ever get it to spend much more usefully later by subtracting that amount from the student debt. We have already received a response from the Minister in an earlier debate, with a perfect effect on how this could be done. I would like to thank the Minister for that, because that was a complete answer. But still the question of a lot of parties in this house is on the table: it was not possible to do so in the spring note. Mr Paternotte says that we must keep trying. I also have a motion, together with GroenLinks, SP and ChristenUnion, to call on the Minister to look at that again in the budget. Because the Minister replied: in the entire spending pattern of the Empire, I could not get it done with the Spring Note. That's right: you have to slide with the expenses. But perhaps that is possible with the next budget. Because with a budget, that is always easier in that respect than with a Spring note. That is why I would like to repeat this motion, in full awareness of what Mr Paternotte said, namely that this will be a rather difficult budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	As I have just said, I am of course very sympathetic to Mr Van der Molen. The only thing is: if it had to be resolved within the Ministry of Education, it would have consequences for education in the Netherlands. I hope that we share that that should not be the case, that you will see the possibility in other ministries and that your appeal will also be an appeal to the Minister of Finance to look at this widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	I assume everyone is paying attention to this debate. This is indeed the wish we have already mentioned at a number of times. It would be very strange if we did not repeat that wish if we discussed it again in the Chamber. The motion is also in line with your plea, so we can wait for the votes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Minister informed the Chamber of the impossibility of returning funds for the study advance voucher to students in the context of the Spring Note in the form of a reduction of debt or cash payment;]] [[believes that it is important for students to pay off their student debt as quickly as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to re-explore, within the framework of Princess Day 2020, the possibility that students who were already entitled to a voucher will not receive a voucher, but that, instead, five years after graduation, their debt will be reduced by €1,835 and, if former students do not owe €1,835, cash payments will be made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Molen, Mr Westerveld, Mr Futselaar and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24724-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to two points, namely Mrs Westerveld's point about DUO and its implementation, and the point of the cash slide, because that is what this is about. I would like to correct the image that Mrs Westerveld sketches on the feasibility of DUO. We have indicated earlier that we must always look at the wishes of the Chamber in relation to the feasibility of implementing services. We've seen wider at the Empire for a reason we've also got a broad project Work in progress that we've really had problems because sometimes it's too easy to say with all kinds of wishes "we'll take care of that in the implementation" and systems get stuck. It is precisely from the responsibility of ensuring that such an implementation service can continue to function, so that all students and schools get their money and we do not get stuck in it, that I also have to be somewhat prudent in what I can and cannot undertake to do. I think you're doing the execution services wrong if you put that away as: that's a receptionist who says "computer says no." That is what I really think is wrong with all those people in the execution that day in, day out of hard work, especially now, to carry out all these things. That's what happens at DUO. Every time we look very closely at what the political wishes are and how we implement them. And yes, if anything is possible, we will. But sometimes we also just run into the limits of implementation. Then they're real. I hope you do not wish to comment on this kind of bathing lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	I appreciate the Minister sticking up for her people. Nor was it a reproach to the people at DUO who work hard. I know. But, of course, it is an implementation issue, as the Minister says. The Chamber wants something, and it can't because the systems aren't working. That is what my comment was about, and not about the hardworking people at DUO or any other implementation organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	It's not because the systems aren't working. Those systems do work, but in order for them to work permanently, you have to be prudent with what kind of interim adjustments you make every time in arrangements, including with regard to the vouchers, which GroenLinks agreed to at the time. I am open to any change in the views of the Chamber and I can follow them very well in the reasoning, but I would also ask you to bear in mind that you cannot change complicated systems overnight every time. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question about the cash drawer. At least now I share the wish of the Chamber to look at the raising of the study vouchers and the possible deduction of the student debt. You don't have to motivate me to look at that anymore. But we also understand that the most minimal variant I have shown you means a cash drawer of 190 million. That is a cash drawer that I cannot achieve on my own budget, as Mr Paternotte rightly says. I can't move $190 million back. Because how does the state budget work? We have an agreed expenditure ceiling. If I want to spend 190 million earlier, this means that, to the same extent and in the same rhythm, 190 million must be pushed back elsewhere. I have discussed this in detail with the Minister for Finance. We didn't see any room for that in the Spring Paper. I can also honestly say that your wish in the budget... You also have some insight into what has happened to spending lately. So now you're gonna find some more room under the ceiling? I think you can guess which way that goes. If the Chamber asks me to explore this, I would also like the Chamber itself to say where it sees that space. For it is one thing to say "we want to bring that money forward by a majority," but it is also a question of whether there is a majority who is equally willing to temporize projects elsewhere. Because that is what we are encountering, of course, because this means that large projects are being pushed backwards on another budget, so that we all know where it is. I think the motion is really superfluous in that sense. We do that reconnaissance all the time. So I dissuade the motion, but I'm constantly trying to see if I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	But at least those two things aren't mutually exclusive. In any event, the parties who have tabled the motion will do the same as the Minister. The Minister says: tell me which other budget I should put it on. That is what we share; it is difficult for you to decide for your colleague, and it is difficult for us to decide for our other colleagues. So I get that stalemate, too. Nor is it to put a knife to your throat and say: you will have to, and you will. I thought it was a little too easy, if we tried to say it in the spring note, suddenly in the budget: well, let it go. But I also understand that from the Minister. So I understand the context and I fully understand the trouble that the Minister has to put into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	But I would like the Minister's commitment that, if there is that opportunity in the budget, which we are not yet fully aware of, she will also take that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yeah, I've pronounced that commitment here before. In that sense, I find the motion really superfluous. We have also agreed with each other that really unnecessary motions here are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes. Thank you. I think you were done. That's right.
