ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u2	I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We shall confine ourselves with a single sentence as an introduction to the assessment of motions, because a great deal has already been exchanged in recent days. As you rightly said, we also had a legislative consultation on Monday. It is our last budget; I have also said something about it. For a number of Members of your Chamber, it is also the last speech they made in a budget. I myself found it very nice to hear that you also give something from your own personal life on such a last speech. For example, Mr Van den Bosch, who is from '55, is a "remember" that gave you what his own experiences were in such a period and how he looks at what happened, and that was true for many members of the Chamber. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their input, but also for their involvement in the Defense Department, whether they stay or leave. As most of you, in fact everyone, has said, it is indeed very important for the men and women of Defense, who we always send out with danger for our own lives, that there is support for the work. Mr President, then there are the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. Question No 33, by Mr Fritsma on border controls. You won't be surprised that I'm trying to dissuade them. It's not a D.O.D.'s job; Justice has the authority. The motion in part No. I would also advise against 34 from Mr Fritsma. This also applies to the jurisdiction of the judiciary. The Secretary of State will make the motion in part No. Thirty-five judgments, like the motion in part No. 36. Then the motion to part No. 37 by Mr Van den Bosch on a day for 18-year-olds. In itself, I think it is a very good idea, even as you explained it. That is why I have always worked with a number of members of your Chamber who have participated in the social service. I think it's important that young people get to know Defense. You say: map the possibilities, investigate if it's possible. I can leave that judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 38...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u4	In order to properly assess this motion, what exactly is the Minister going to investigate? A compulsory acquaintance of young people with Defence or...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u5	No, it says in the motion: calls on the government to map out the possibilities for regulating such a day. So that could be anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u6	Exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u7	So I'm gonna take a broad look at what might be possible. I understand Mr Van den Bosch as well. Then the motion to part No. 38 by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen on information on ongoing missions. We've been talking about that for a while. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on this. The motion in part No. 39 by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen and Mrs Belhaj deal with scenarios for possible routes for specialisation within international partnerships. Several members of your Chamber have spoken about this. On that motion, too, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Secretary of State will make the motions in part No. 40, piece No. 41 and item No. Forty-two. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 43 by Mrs Karabulut on the sg designation. I think the sg doesn't like that there is always talk about the sg-direction, I say, but it is as it is. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. I had left the Van den Bosch/Van Helvert motion to the House. As soon as the new state regime is in place, as you know, I have promised that we will withdraw the designation. The motion in part No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u8	We are not going to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u9	No, no debate. I'm allowed to ask a question about my motion, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mrs. Karabulut, you know we're running out of time. And it is not really necessary to reopen the debate again. But if you insist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr President, I do not wish to reopen the debate. I'm asking a question on my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u12	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u13	The question is: does the Minister accept, by embracing the Van den Bosch motion, that the current sg designation remains intact until more is allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u14	No, I already said that in the legislative consultation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u15	A repeat of the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u16	...and this morning. I will work in the spirit of the Van den Bosch motion. I asked if I could interpret her in such a way that it was not just about soldiers but also about civilians in the Defense Department. The answer to that was yes. But we must have something, so until the new regulation arrives, we will interpret it widely and we will therefore already be working with an opinion, as Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Van Helvert asked for in the legislative consultation. That was the motion in part No. 43. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 44 by Mrs Karabulut. I'd like to discourage that motion, too. The same applies to the motion in part No. 45 by Mrs Karabulut, on independent research in Australia. I would also like to advise against that. There's really no reason for that. We have a letter from the Australian Minister, from the Australian CDS, stating that there is no involvement. We'll do an inventory, just to be safe, as indicated. So there's really no reason. We will, of course, inform you about this. I really want to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u17	Could the Minister briefly explain what she means by "inventory"? Is it an idea that I'm holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u18	I've already done that in my contribution. Absolutely. In my contribution in the first period, I have indicated in detail that we are doing an inventory in our archives. We'll see if there's a reason. On the basis of the Australian documents we have received, we do not see any reason to do so, but we are nevertheless doing an inventory. But there's no reason for further investigation. I have talked about this extensively. You can, of course, always hold the motion; that is not up to me. I want to dissuade her, because there really is no reason for further investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u19	This was indeed more extensive. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u20	No, she literally said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thanks to the Minister. I'm holding this motion for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u22	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motion (35570-X, No. 45). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u23	Then the motion to part No. 46. It's also Mrs Karabulut's. I'd like to dissuade them, too. We respond to threats or things that are necessary. That's what we're acting on. If we have to operate internally, we will do so internally, if there are grounds for doing so or if there are requests for doing so. So I really shouldn't recommend this motion. We can't just adjust to everything. There's got to be a reason for that. Then the motion to part No. 47 by Mrs Belhaj. It's about threats and the strategic compass. In my reply, I indicated how I look at the strategic compass. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 48 members of Kerstens, Belhaj and Van Helvert on the Veteranenombudsman and the recommendations of the complaint monitor. I assume it is an effort and so I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion-Christmas c.s. in piece No. 49. It's about the compensation scheme. I'd like to ask you to hold this motion. When I look at it now, I have to dissuade her. I must discuss it with my colleague, as you have heard me say in the first term. In my opinion, Mr Sjoerdsma has tabled a similar motion to the BZ budget. I need to discuss that. If you hold her, it's still hanging over the market. But if I don't, I'm gonna have to dissuade her, 'cause I'm gonna have to talk to her first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u24	I'm gonna arrest her. The Minister himself said a moment ago about the low-threshold nature. It appears to be different in practice. I am assuming that this will be taken up in her discussions with her colleague from the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u25	Sure. I have already said that this is an important part for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u26	At the request of Mr Kerstens, I propose his motion (35570-X, No. 49). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u27	The motion in part No. 50 will assess the Secretary of State. The same applies to motions on items Nos. 51, 52 and 53. Then I come to the motion on part No. 54 by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van den Bosch. It's also about task specialization. I just said something about that. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 55 by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Helvert. I would like to explain it as follows. It says: "Asks the government to include in the evaluation of the Defence Equipment Fund (DMF) Act how to do so... "Of course, that will come. I'd say: or and how. Because if you evaluate, of course you have to look seriously, so I'll explain the motion as "or and how" and then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u28	I see the petitioner nodding yes, so you can explain him in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you. Then that was the verdict on the motion in part No. 55. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 56 by Mr Öztürk on adequate resources for PTSS. I have already indicated in my term how important it is for me to take a serious look at it and how complicated it is sometimes to deal with PTSD and complaints. I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber, because we are always looking at whether there are sufficient resources. I stress the importance of this point. The motions on the documents Nos. 57 and 58 will assess the Secretary of State. There is nothing left for me but to repeat what I said at the beginning, namely to thank the Members of Parliament for their input and to reiterate that we also assume that this is the last budget we have put in here. I repeat that we have consistently taken steps to improve the position of our men and women in defence, and that we have laid down a Defence vision that sets out the long lines towards the future, which I hope will benefit everyone in this Chamber. I also hope that everyone will join me in the public debate on what security is worth to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you. Then we'll do a little change and we'll have the floor with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I would like to start the assessment of the motions immediately. I'll start with the motion in part No. 35 by Mr Fritsma. I advise against it because it is contrary to the Constitution. Pursuant to Article 3, all Dutch people are simply eligible on an equal footing in public service. The motion in part No. 36 is about Turkish military service and regulation. I've already told you that the loan should simply be repaid. And of course I have also said to Mr Fritsma sometimes we may not understand each other that I do agree that this is undesirable. My commitment is therefore also aimed at abolishing this regime. So I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 40 belong to Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Van den Bosch, Belhaj and Van Helvert. I have indicated what the formal procedure for naming Navy ships is, but I will pass this request on to the Tradition Committee with a positive opinion. So here's the thing: Judge Room. Then there is the Van Helvert/Kerstens motion on part No. 41 on chromium-6 and POMS locations. We discussed this in detail last Monday, and I think it is a good question to ask, so: Judgement Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Van Helvert/Stoffer motion on part No. 42. I understand what both gentlemen want to say, namely: be proud of the Dutch industry. Mr Stoffer also mentioned it in his closing words. The rest of the way he sees it in consortia is up to him. I would like to give the Chamber the following comments. In recent years, we have drawn up the DIS, the Defence Industry Strategy. To give you an idea: in 2018, there was only 32.1% involved in the initial participation. In other words, once we have entered into a tender and concluded a contract, how do you bring in the Dutch industry? That was 32.1% in 2018. Then at the entry into force of the DIS, we realized 65.4% in 2019. The new policy has therefore led to a doubling in order to give SMEs an explicit place in it. I would like to point out that our commitment is precisely to give this Dutch industry and, above all, the SME industry a place in it. I have indicated that the invitation to tender is ongoing and that I cannot mention any criterion in this Chamber either. So I would like to ask Mr Van Helvert whether he would like to delete his first operative part, 'calls on the government to check the three suppliers' and then delete the sentences that follow afterwards. Perhaps he can say that because of the strategic autonomy and national security interests, we give the Dutch industry a place in the offers we ask out to recruits. That is a suggestion I would like to make to Mr Van Helvert. Then I could give the motion judgment chamber. But if the first operative part stays in place, I'll have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u32	I am going to take a closer look at the wording and take the advice of the Secretary of State into account. Then I'll come back with an updated motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u33	The request is therefore to amend it. Until then, she's been dissuaded, but it could be judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u34	Yes. The same applies to the second operative part. That will then be after the award, but that is also part of the modification of the motion. Then the motion to part No. 50 by Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Belhaj. I have indicated to you that this is important. I'll give this motion judgment chamber. Then the motion to part No. 51 by Mr Kerstens. I've indicated that we're talking to the business community. I see this as a good suggestion, so I'm also giving this Chamber judgment. Then the motion to part No. 52 by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Belhaj. That motion is about priority. We have had a debate on this. The Defence Vision also indicates how many priorities there are. Ms Belhaj also stressed the importance of staff, including in a subsequent cabinet period. It is about human readiness and material readiness, but also about security. We have talked little about security today, but that is also one of the top priorities that the Minister and I have set in terms of defence investment. This is part of that. If I can read the word "priority" in the sense that it is important to improve security, material readiness and human readiness, then I will give the motion judgment Chamber. But if this is the only priority, it will be a little more difficult, because there are more priorities. In her contribution, Mrs Belhaj always talked about staff, which I also endorse. I see Mr Voordewind nodding. Then I'll give her judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 53 by Mr Stoffer. I think it's a fair question to be involved early. We've also asked the observer, the observer, I'll use the Dutch term, to be an observer of the program. There has been a positive response to that. The further elaboration has yet to take place, but I am giving this judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 57 by Mr Öztürk. I think we have had a whole debate on this. I'll advise against it. We have solved the problem of the AOW-hole. Then the motion to part No. 58) also by Mr Öztürk. The findings are not entirely correct, and neither are the considerations. The theorem about the irregularity payment is incorrect, and that military are overloaded, structurally irregular services run and PTSS increase is also wrong. In any case, we are working with the social partners on this issue. That is the working conditions consultation. We will. That's what we're doing. So I'm gonna tell you what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr Öztürk. We are not going to repeat the debate on the AOW age either. That's what you came up for, I guess?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u36	No, I think the Secretary of State should read my motion properly. It is only about the group for which the AOW-hole is not arranged. We want that resolved as soon as possible. That's my question. At the motion in part No. 58 I am going to look again at the considerations. If that's the case, I'll adjust her. The Minister was more generous than the Secretary of State. So I'd like to ask the Secretary of State for the motion in part No. 57 to go through it again. This is also the last budget debate. The intention is good. I've also heard you want to do that. I just think you should read carefully why the motion is being put forward, because it may well make it a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u37	Are we gonna negotiate here? I don't think this is the place. I have indicated to you that the AOW-hole is simply resolved in general terms. I'm really committed to stressing that. In reply to questions from Mr Kerstens, for example, but also Mr Van Helvert and other Members of this Chamber, I also indicated that I would always like to look at individual cases. But you're fully linking this motion to the AOW-hole. That's why I betrayed her. But if Mr Öztürk has some suggestions for this debate, I will look at them later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u38	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the defence budget, in which several members have indicated that they are deeply grateful to our Defence personnel, both the military and civilian personnel. I would therefore like to conclude this debate by thanking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-10.u39	We're going to vote on the motions next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 3:50 p.m.
