ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Aartsen, on behalf of the VVD, for his question about fear among entrepreneurs following calls for looting. The question is addressed to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Madam President. A lot of shopkeepers have been up lately, out of fear. Fear, following calls on social media, on Snapchat, to raid their stores massively, first in Tilburg and then in Rotterdam. The scare is good with all those entrepreneurs. In Tilburg a number of shopkeepers closed earlier than usual and in Rotterdam even on Saturday afternoon, in broad daylight, a shop was completely boarded up for fear of these lootings. Let me pay tribute here to the police, who have, I believe, acted adequately. The police walked through those shopping streets at night to protect those stores and the storekeepers' stuff. But of course that cannot be a solution. The police can't be everywhere in the shopping streets at night if this turns out to be a trend. We're gonna have to deal with this in the bud. So we have to put the people who call these on social media. Not those entrepreneurs should lie awake at night for fear of looting, but the guests who post these things online should lie awake at night for fear of being snatched from their beds by the police in the morning. Can the Minister indicate how many arrests there have been in the meantime as a result of the situation in Rotterdam and in Tilburg? Does the Minister recognise that there is also a trend from calls to looting? What's he gonna do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The plundering of shops is, of course, unacceptable and also punishable. Reports on social media calling for this are also taken very seriously by the police. Last weekend the police in Rotterdam have been extra alert. Measures have been taken, visible and invisible, including additional agents in the shopping areas, so that there was sufficient surveillance and protection. In addition, there is also a lot of preventive action in this area. We have the National Platform Crime Control, along with the business community. I met with them in detail last Monday to discuss the recent crime in the area of corona and other things. There we are discussing how we can best help them in dealing with cases such as shop crime and robbery, and also in dealing with these cases, which are apparently via social media. Good cooperation is, of course, very important. A lot happens at local level. For this there are the regional Platforms Safe Enterprise, the so-called PVOs. Rotterdam-Centrum also uses a partnership called the so-called monitoring model. This means, in concrete terms, that shopkeepers, police, boas and security officers are in regular consultation so that they can work well together. In this respect, the police are indeed very alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	I already complimented the police for their good performance, but, again, I don't think that's at the heart of the solution. I think we should tackle this problem in the bud and the seed is the people who have the guts to call on the Internet to plunder shops. Because if that happens in every city soon, then we cannot let the minister and I will have police officers on the streets. We will have to take the people who call for this, who make a call and who also share those calls, from their beds. My question to the Minister is how many people have been contacted and arrested by the police in response to a call on social media, in the case in Tilburg and in the case in Rotterdam. Are we going to do that more and more? I think it is an important point that we really do deal with these people, otherwise we will stay busy and mop up with the tap open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	This call is still being investigated. This has not yet led to the concrete designation of suspects, as no concrete persons can yet be linked to the messages. A lot is being done with all kinds of encrypted pseudonyms and so on. However, the youth agents are particularly alert to this, in order to get what could be done from practice. Otherwise, I would like to invite you to take a look at a district office yourself on the spot as well as what could possibly be the local effects of calls and the like via social media, and it acts on it, where possible, immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Again, I think the police are doing a very good job. But in my view, this is precisely the crux of the problem, namely that people are not arrested and are immediately caught. They think they're totally untouchable when they put something on social media, a call for looting. That entrepreneur lies awake at night because of fear that his store is being looted and these people can go to sleep peacefully. I think we should take steps on that. My question to the Minister is whether he can inform us as a Chamber of when arrests have been made in both cases, in Rotterdam and in Tilburg. Can he indicate if he thinks that's enough? Can he indicate whether the government considers the powers of the police and investigation services sufficient or whether additional steps need to be taken to ensure that those entrepreneurs are not awake at night for fear of looting, but that the people who place these calls are awake at night because the police are on the doorstep in the morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Again, these calls are being investigated at the moment. That hasn't been completed yet. And, as has been said, there are no concrete suspects at the moment, but the police in general also pay particular attention to social media when it comes to calling for or simply communicating about possible criminal offences, because of course a lot goes through the digital domain. So that's what the police keep doing, and that's what we're still investing in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Finally, Mr President. I asked the Minister whether he could inform us if there were arrests in both cases, and whether he considered that sufficient or that additional measures and powers were needed to deal with these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I think I understand that as much as you do in principle from press releases, because I am not, of course, on every individual matter..... that we will undoubtedly soon hear what the developments are in these matters. And about the measures: I started saying that it's just criminal. Calls for criminal offences are also punishable under circumstances, and we will certainly continue to act on them, police and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	I have some kind of déjà vu. Last year, I urged the Minister to tackle Packs of immigrants who are on the hunt, who want to purify ethnically, who want to conquer the Netherlands. The minister didn't know what to do at the time. He almost wanted to run away and take a break and he didn't understand what he could do about it. And today we see that there is a threat of ethnic cleansing. Roodel's immigrants want to plunder our entrepreneurs. And what does our minister do? A little research, a little prevention, but we need a minister of repression. We need a minister who picks up these packs, tackles them and throws them in jail. Send the army in. Do something to deal with these people and throw them in jail for a long time. I want a concrete answer when that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	I am explicitly going to distance myself from the concept of ethnic cleansing. Ethnic cleansing represents something very disgusting. Although I, as Minister of Justice, do not always have a complete information position, I have sometimes apologized to your Chamber for this, and I have no reason to believe that there would be something as disgusting as ethnic cleansing in the Netherlands, let alone that it would play. Really. I have great respect for the debate, and you may bother me on all points, but I am not going to fall into that kind of jargon. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	What concerns many shopkeepers, and we with them, are the calls for looting that occasionally take place. When you read the news reports, you are a bit afraid that there is a certain powerlessness: those social media are fleeting and we can't track them anymore because those messages disappear again. That makes me feel a little impotent. So I found Mr Aartsen's question quite right. Are our powers even in order? Will the Minister look again at that particular point, including the experience of these events? Do we indeed have sufficient instruments to be able to act via social media? Does the Minister still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Van der Staaij makes a very good point. There are two things. It is very important that there is good cooperation between local police and entrepreneurs in order to be able to act on them immediately if one is concerned and if one feels unsafe. I have already explained this to you in detail. And, Mr President, I know you, you still have a busy programme, so I have saved you many more examples of that, but it is really working well to at least be able to act and ensure that entrepreneurs are protected and things like this do not happen. Something else is, of course, the technology surrounding social media. There are all kinds of tricky things, which I have also touched on in a different context with the big internet parties and with the providers. Let's really work together to see what they think of hate speech, because you could almost say that calling for looting is a special form of hate speech. We are also doing this in a European context. We do need the big Internet providers to get early warning and to get messages like that before they disappear. They have to keep those kinds of parties off their servers, too. We're far from there. That is an ongoing discussion on which I will continue to report to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	It's actually pretty nice. Normally, the minister is called to the Chamber if the police do anything wrong. Now the police have done something right and there are questions again. I thought I'd remind you of that. I have a question. I understand very well that these entrepreneurs are looking at the plundering of shops, because it happens in Belgium and it happens in Great Britain. Those people are in heavy weather. Now we have talked a great deal about the capacity of the police. Is there sufficient police capacity to act against this, including in the coming period? It seems to me that it would be a guarantee for entrepreneurs if you could speak out about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	If we say good things about the police, let me start by pointing out that the police in the Netherlands are standing next to the people. I refer to the interview with the Chief Constable this week in the Volkskrant. The police are a relief organisation and not just an enforcement organisation. This is essential in relation to other countries. Let me start with that. This also means that the demonstrations, according to what I have been reported about them, for example in recent weeks, generally go in a very good atmosphere, with the police together. That's one. Two is that there are still people threatening, intimidating, harassing other people. Today, thanks to Mr Aartsen, we are talking about the problem of shopkeepers who feel threatened. The cops are gonna bet on that. The police really set themselves up on that, too. I find it difficult to guarantee that a surveillance car or a district agent is always available at the right time, but I can see that there is sufficient capacity in that sense. The police anticipate and cooperate with the authorities. That's how you're supposed to get along.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you.
