ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the VAO Brand refugee camp Lesbos. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is absolutely positive that after months of pushing and pulling a number of people, 100 to be precise, are invited from the Greek islands to the Netherlands. It is, however, extremely bitter that this happens only after a terrible fire takes place on Lesbos and that this is at the expense of 100 other refugees to be resettled, so that, on balance, nothing, nada happens in terms of the number of refugees to be taken up in the Netherlands. It would be courageous if the government were to say: we increase the number of refugees to be resettled by 100 people, from 500 to 600. This motion calls for this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that UNHCR has established that 1.4 million refugees are eligible for resettlement;]] [[whereas 100 people are now invited from the Greek islands, but this is offset by the number of refugees to be resettled, so that no one is added;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the number of refugees eligible for resettlement by 100 per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2653]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. After a deep crisis, a very serious humanitarian crisis, you expect a broad gesture without needing trade. It is therefore sad, shameful, that there may be 100 vulnerable refugees coming to the Netherlands, but that the door is closed to other vulnerable refugees worldwide, from Sudan, Libya, for whom we also wanted to offer a place. The coalition is out of the woods, but really vulnerable people aren't helped. Mr. Chairman. We have the Nijboer motion, in which we still call for 500 vulnerable children to be included. I understand very well that the coalition does not agree with that, but if you want to be generous, make a real gesture, I would call for at least Mr Van Dijk's motion to be supported. That is why I co-signed it. Mr. Chairman. I understand that it is sometimes incredibly difficult to reach agreements in a coalition together, but real crises also call for leadership, asking to step over your own shadow. They're also asking you not to throw a party because you're getting a faster or stricter asylum system. They're asking for something to really do. I just think it's sad. It hurts a little bit that it didn't work out tonight. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I have less speaking time, so I will move on to my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas invited refugees from UNHCR do not go through asylum procedures and are immediately housed;]] [[calls on the Government to grant the 100 Moria refugees to be admitted to the Netherlands on arrival in the Netherlands the same rights as those granted to UNHCR reinvestors who are invited to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kooten-Arissen and Kikking. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2654]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u6	I would very much like to take part, because it is a very right point that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen raised here in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u8	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u9	I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mr President. In the AO I also said that we have seen terrible images of the Greek islands. We've seen that footage for a long time, but this week we saw that 13,000 people were displaced because of the fire in camp Moria. Something's really going on here. This has also led to a new political reality. A gesture is being made to allow a group of the most vulnerable children, the most vulnerable families, to enter the asylum procedure in the Netherlands. It also recognises the support for this in our own society. I think it is very important that this has been achieved and that we can say that this does not mean that the number of refugees in the Netherlands is increasing. However, it does mean that we are going to make the asylum procedure more efficient, that we can take away the residence permit more quickly from non-behaving status holders and that we are criminalising human trafficking. I just heard Mrs. Chicken say: it's a party that I find a little cynical. I would like to say that it is not a cynical party that I am celebrating, but it all contributes to the acceptance and sustainability of an asylum system that is just. It is precisely in the interests of those vulnerable refugees who ultimately appeal to us, that we can say to people who are not entitled to asylum or who are misbehaving here: go back to where you come from. Today we are dealing with this in a very fair way with a new balance sheet. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Van Ojik, I see you standing. You've been talking about this for hours. You may ask a short question, but it is not the intention to discuss it in general. You shake no, so I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u12	In the last 24 hours, the coalition has had a feverish negotiation. We even had to postpone our debate for five hours. What's in the deal, or in the deal, with which Mrs Becker of the VVD is less happy? Where has it made a concession to reach a good agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u13	It is a little bit of a repetition of the general consultation, because I have also indicated this in the general consultation. You know that it is not my idea to bring migrants from Greek islands to the Netherlands. As a VVD, we have been contributing to many structural solutions on the ground for many years, such as improving facilities and conditions and sending blankets and experts. Our Secretary of State has agreed to build shelters there. But we do not want there to be an incentive in the system, which pays people to get on that smuggler's boat to that island.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u14	Good. You say yourself that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u15	For now, in this unique situation, we have made an exception for once, because we have been able to do so in a balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr Emiel van Dijk, you too have the same remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u17	I'll be very brief. I believe that this is the fifth or sixth exception in the last ten years, since the VVD is on the buttons. I would like to correct this misinformation from Mrs Becker of the VVD, because people know that she says only for the stage: we are going to deactivate people and we are going to adopt a more stringent approach. With all due respect, the Secretary of State hasn't dented a packet of butter yet. She's not even allowed to visit Morocco yet to turn off annoying Moroccans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr. Van Dijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u19	This must be recorded in the Acts, because the VVD does not get away with continuously spreading this kind of misinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mrs Becker, you may respond briefly to this, at least if you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u21	For the sake of clarity, I will refer to the AA. I have mentioned a whole list of actions that the Secretary of State has made in order to put the wheeldrivers behind bars. I would like to point out something that we are doing in these agreements. We say it doesn't just have to be an opium crime anymore, but all kinds of serious crimes are going to be a title to take away your residence permit. That is another very good concrete step...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u22	No, Mrs. Becker, you too can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u23	... instead of yelling on the sidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Chairman. I have been very critical in the debate. That is not because a compromise has been reached, because I understand very well that we have to. That's not because only one small step has been taken, because I understand very well that sometimes it has to be done. It's because we're being sold something like a deal, which isn't a deal at all. There's no deal at all. 'Cause what was negotiated out as part of that deal? That is something that could already be done, namely simply taking over children from the Greek islands under the UNHCR ceiling. What we are doing now, taking over 100 children and vulnerable, means that 100 children and vulnerable people in Lebanon, or in Sudan, now no longer have access to the Netherlands. So what's sold to us as a deal isn't a deal. That is why I have been very critical of this on behalf of my group. The reactions of the various groups in this debate spoke volumes. Mrs. Becker was very happy. She said she was "very happy" with the agreement reached. Mr Grothuizen spoke of 'a very small step'. Mr Voordewind said: you should not expect me to be dancing on the benches. That says enough. Mr President, I have a motion for a resolution. That motion calls on the Secretary of State to enter into talks with all these municipalities. Those 160 municipalities, of very different political colours, have said that they want to do something extra. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that more than 160 municipalities have indicated their willingness to contribute to the reception of unaccompanied minors currently residing in the Greek islands under poor conditions;]] [[Whereas municipalities are ultimately responsible for the housing of status holders in the Netherlands, and it is therefore logical for municipalities to also influence the selection of vulnerable refugees that can be re-established in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to enable municipalities fulfilling their regular resettlement mission to offer additional places for re-established status holders over the regular municipal mission and the Dutch UNHCR resettlement quota, and to request the UN Refugee Organisation to select vulnerable refugees on the Greek islands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Ojik, Jasper van Dijk and Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2655]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD has broken its knees again. 100 men, and their entire family, are being picked up from Greece. It is yet another knee of the VVD for left-wing drammers. Illegal migrants burn down their own homes and sing: burn, Moria, burn. They're marching on their way to the port to force their transfer to the mainland. What does the VVD Secretary of State do? He says: come to the Netherlands. This is not just another broken promise from the VVD, but also a reward for criminal behavior. It's a reward for setting fire to your asylum seekers' center. This seems practically a free pass to start a fire, because then you will get an invitation from the VVD to come to the Netherlands. In that light, I have the next motion, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the setting-up of reception camps should not be rewarded;]] [[calls on the Government under no circumstances to take over asylum seekers from Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Emiel van Dijk and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2656]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u27	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the speaker of the PVV I must say that almost everyone who saw the images thought "something must happen for the people there in Moria, where these terrible fires were raging." A gesture from the cabinet came pretty soon by offering emergency aid, but let me just say here: that was just not enough for us as CDA. At some point we just felt that our door should be open to the most vulnerable people. Did we achieve an ideal package with that? No. Don't we always fall short when we hope we can kick out all the fireplaces in the world? Yeah, I'm afraid so. Not everything in this deal is ideal. I can just say that. Mrs Becker already indicated that they might not have felt it necessary for people to come to the Netherlands. Let me be clear, resettlement keys don't have to be mine, but in the end we have put together a package that will enable us to meet the acute needs of people right now. That's why we're here today as politicians. Shall we continue with all the demands we make? Sure. We still want the entire project for minors to continue. This is a project for which the cabinet has made a good proposal. We will always keep other things on the agenda, but let it be said for now that everyone who has seen the images of Moria has thought "something must happen." We also felt that something should be done. Emergency aid was needed and our door had to be opened to the most vulnerable. We are grateful that it has succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr Emiel van Dijk with a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u31	Here again I want to correct the image, because there is selective shopping when images are quoted. What does Mrs Van Toorenburg think of all those locals who see their thousands of years old olive plantations burned to the ground by asylum seekers? What does Mrs Van Toorenburg think of all those policemen and firefighters who are being attacked by thousands of migrants and being stoned? How does she feel about that? I think that the wrong priorities are once again being set. We Dutch politics have nothing to do with those people there! Let Greece solve the problem and let us worry about all the problems we have in the Netherlands. There are plenty of people in the Netherlands who need help. I am thinking of debt relief and I would like to mention it all. The list is very long and concerns you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u32	I think Mrs. Kuiken said it most beautifully today in the AO: we saw a girl with a pink hat lying on the floor and she sleeps there again last night. That is something we are ashamed of. We're not gonna let that girl with the pink hat pay the price for a couple of wheeldrivers burning the place up. We don't want that and that's why...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u33	Mrs. Van Toorenburg and Mr. Van Dijk, I'm not going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u34	May I finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u35	No, you're not allowed anymore. There have really been hours of talk about this subject and we have a conclusion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr President, I can just... He's asking me a question, and I'm just answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u37	But your answer also provokes a reaction from Mr. Emiel van Dijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u38	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u39	...and then we have the same debate as we did a few hours ago. Very briefly, Mrs Van Toorenburg. After that, Mr. Van Dijk, you will have the opportunity to respond briefly. But really short!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u40	I just want to finish my answer. I haven't said anything else. I have indicated that Mrs Kuik made a justified remark and that we, as CDA, do not want the girls with the pink hats to pay the price for those wheeldrivers. That's the answer I wanted to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr Van Dijk, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u42	Thank you, Mr President. There is now another picture, the image of a girl with a pink hat. That's one thing to take out, while there are thousands, thousands of people running around who start fires, smacking cops, and you name it all. Why don't you go into that and don't go past that? You abuse this image as emotional blackmail...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u43	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u44	...for your own political purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got the footage of the kids in Moria on the retina, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It remains difficult to show that we also have human values. We often confess them with words and rarely with deeds. Mr. Chairman. I remember there was a fire not so long ago in the Notre-Dame, a building, and then 900 million euros were raised within two days. I wonder if we'll get that far enough away now that 13,000 people have lost the place where they lived under miserable conditions. It wasn't human before that fire. For that fire, it was actually a situation that we couldn't do, which we should be ashamed of. Mr. Chairman. What this deal is about, we found out a little bit during the debate. I thought I got it until Secretary Ankie Broekers-Knol told him. Then I, and many with me, and even Mr Voordewind, lost my way. But fortunately that has been corrected, after some additional questions. I think I should summarize him best if the VVD is so happy that they are actually expecting the compliments, and that's what they asked from the PVV. It's just getting tighter. We're not getting anywhere. The people on Lesbos are making a little bit of progress. There are other places where people go backwards. Next was the story of D66: it's a small step. That's fair. Mr Grothuizen said it honestly: it is a very small step. Mr Voordewind wanted to save a little bit of what could be saved, especially his own image, and said: it is indeed a step. That really did not come out of the debate. Mr. Chairman. Let's be happy about this very small step, but let's also be sad about the fact that other people, the other 100, aren't being helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thank you. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u50	Madam President, thank you very much. What struck me in the debate was that the focus was very strong on the short-term solution. There's a problem. We all acknowledge that, or almost all of them. Something has to be done. I also miss too much of a structural approach to the problem in the coalition deal. I have argued that Frontex should be used more widely and intensively for the surveillance of Greek waters, so that people do not still cross the border. And indeed, the punishments for trafficking in human beings must become more severe, says the letter, but the pay model of smugglers should actually be tackled, effectively frustrated. It doesn't figure out how that could be handled. I can imagine just being explored how contraband boats can be intercepted and sent back directly and effectively. This is a somewhat unorthodox approach, but if this could be achieved at EU level, then Frontex will have a role in the process, and it will be able to prevent the withdrawal. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that arson has destroyed the Moria shelter camp on Lesbos, making thousands of migrants homeless;]] [[noting that many have been staying in this camp for many years pending the outcome of the asylum application;]] [[considers that this has created a situation at the external border of the European Union which requires urgent action and should be avoided in the future;]] [[calls on the government to:]] [[an emergency operation led by Frontex to relocate migrants to the Greek mainland, assess asylum applications and deport rejected migrants to safe areas;]] [[stepping up border surveillance in the Greek islands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2657]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u51	I do not really understand why this is Mr Bishop's final result of the debate we have had today. Nothing about those vulnerable kids, just Frontex and border guards. Seriously, is this the only thing Mr Bishop can do right now, after such a debate as today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u52	With all due respect to my colleague, Keiken, this has been put forward from various points of view. I paid attention to this in my first term. Next I note: focusing only on this does not solve the problem in a structural way. And now I get a surprising question: "You want to solve structural issues? That's weird." But we have to do one thing and not leave the other, I think. Hence this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u53	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the many questions. The reason for the debate today was deeply sad: a great fire in something that was already the disgrace of Europe. It has led to a political agreement today and let me be very honest about it: politics is not so beautiful sometimes in this country of mildness and grace, especially when the political divisions are deep and the divisions are large and the issue is emotional. I think this is a small step forward politically, because something that has not been within reach for years has come within reach today, namely the Netherlands, which is willing to help Greece take over a number of people. I add a personal note to that, which I don't usually do. For 100 people this changes their lives and that was worth the effort as far as I am concerned today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u55	Thank you. Is it true that Mr Voordewind is the last speaker? Yeah? Finally, Mr Voordewind has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is striking tonight in the long debate we have had with each other is that everyone is actually affected by what happened on Lesbos, the terrible disaster. What has also been noticed is that many parties in recent months and even in recent years have called on the cabinet to do something for these most vulnerable people on Lesbos. The cabinet is now making this decision and these children are now being taken out of that hell. Is it an ideal deal? No, we would have preferred not to take it out of the existing refugee quota. What's finally happening? Yeah, sure. Children and families are being cared for in the Netherlands. That is why the Netherlands is showing solidarity and shows compassion towards the children by taking them out of the hell of Lesbos. A small step, but for the children it concerns a world of difference. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u57	Thank you. Then I'll look at the Secretary of State, see if she needs a short suspension or if she can answer directly. All motions are copied and distributed. Five minutes or ten minutes? Five? Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u58	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Members for their contributions and the motions. With regard to the advanced hour, I will be brief. That is why I shall confine myself to dealing with the motions, because I have not received any further questions. First, I come to the motion on part No. 2653 by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mrs Kuik, Mr Van Ojik and others. This motion calls for the number of refugees eligible for resettlement per year to be increased by 100. During the AO we talked extensively about the numbers. I must therefore discourage the motion. The second motion is the motion by Mrs Van Kooten on part No. 2654. The motion is wrongly based on a difference in procedures. It is true that the people who are eligible for resettlement have a very extensive asylum procedure in the country where they are assessed by the resettlement committee. So there's an asylum procedure going on there. There is still a need for an asylum procedure for the people of Greece who are invited. It is taking place in the Netherlands and that will be a Dutch asylum procedure. The only difference between the resettlement and the people from Greece is therefore that the asylum procedure is taking place with the people from Greece in the Netherlands. So this is happening in both cases. So I'm going to have to dissuade the motion. The third motion, in part No. 2655, by Mr Van Ojik, deals with the role of the municipalities in the selection of candidates. That sounds very sympathetic, and that is what Mr Van Ojik is trying to do. But admission policy is a competence of the Empire. We simply have to stick to that; that is the power of the Empire. So, unfortunately, I must advise against this motion. Then there is the motion by Mr Emiel van Dijk, on item No. 2656. Under no circumstances is it asking the government to take over asylum seekers from Greece. We've been discussing this. I have indicated what, in this case, is the case for the cabinet to deviate from the existing cabinet policy for this time. I must therefore also discourage the motion. Then I come to Mr Bishop's motion, item No. 2657. I say to him that in some time, on 30 September, we will hear what Commissioner Johansson's pact looks like. I hope this goes on. I would like to ask Mr Bishop if he is prepared to hold his motion pending that pact, so that I can also give a much broader picture of what he says in his motion, and also during the first term of the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u60	I understand the request. At the same time, I would ask the Secretary of State to interpret the motion in such a way as to support the line already outlined by the Secretary of State, which will need to be further developed as a result of that pact. So it's kind of a policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u61	Yes, but then the motion must be dissuaded. That is the assessment framework that we have agreed with the cabinet. If the motion is policy support, it must be discouraged. Or you'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u62	I said what I said. Hopefully that pact will come on September 30th. Well, I ask Mr Bishop once again if he wishes to continue his motion, pending that pact, so that we can outline a broader picture. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u63	Well, we're gonna vote on it. So if Mr Bishop does not hold the motion, what is the State Secretary's opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u64	If Mr Bishop continues the motion, I must dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u65	If he puts her in a mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u66	The EU-Turkey Declaration applies and the functioning of that Declaration is currently being negotiated between the Foreign Minister and Turkey and the High Representative, Mr Borrell. So there's something else going on there, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u67	Brief question, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u68	I think that is what the Secretary of State on my motion for a resolution is about. 2654 said, factually incorrect. Because the UNHCR website says: "The UNHCR identifies the most vulnerable refugees for resettlement and presents them to governments. In resettlement, governments decide which refugees are ultimately selected." In the Netherlands they have a residence permit and are housed in municipalities. I therefore think it is factually wrong that they have already gone through an asylum procedure in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u69	The resettlement mission that goes to the country of origin is the mission which, on the basis of its requirements, fully assesses whether the persons concerned are indeed... They're being nominated by the UNHCR. He has already made a selection and set criteria. Next comes the resettlement mission. I've been to the resettlement mission in Turkey and I've seen how that goes. That is a procedure similar to what we have, albeit with another, faster than we have, with the asylum procedure. So the whole process has gone through and then the people come to the Netherlands. The motion calls on the government to take up the 100 Moria refugees in the Netherlands after arriving in the Netherlands to grant the same rights as UNHCR reconfirmers who come to the Netherlands on invitation. That is why I must discourage the motion, because that is another procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-10.u71	This brings us to the end of this VAO. I'm suspending the meeting for a maximum of ten minutes. Then we have the voting list in order and we are going to vote on the motions tabled. I thank the Secretary of State.
