ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-2.u1	I'm opening the meeting. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber. The next item is the commemoration of Mr Redemeijer. I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Herman Redemeijer, who died on 29 February last at the age of 89. He was a member of the First Chamber of the States-General for the Labour Party for eight years, from 23 June 1987 to 13 June 1995. Herman Redemeijer was born on 27 November 1930 in Hengelo, Overijssel. After the ulo he went to the school for teachers. In 1953 he obtained his master's degree and became a teacher. After a few years he became head of an elementary school. He stayed until 1962. For ten years, from 1962 to 1972, Redemeijer was Vice-President of the General Association of Teaching Staff. He was then state inspector of special and secondary special education until 1987. In the meantime, Herman Redemeijer had become active in the Labour Party, as a member of the board of the Enschede department and as chairman of the Bussum and Dalfsen PvdA departments. From 1969 to 1972 he was a member of the city council of Bussum. In 1978 Redemeijer became a member of the Provincial States of Overijssel for the Labour Party; from 1983 to 1987 he was chairman of the political group. In the meantime, he had become a member of the First Chamber on 23 June 1987. Of course, Herman Redemeijer became an educational spokesperson in this Chamber for his group. From 1993 to his retirement from the Chamber in 1995, he was also chairman of the permanent Committee for Education. In addition to education, he was also involved in agriculture and development cooperation in the Upper Chamber. During the examination of the education budget for 1991 Redemeijer dealt with the increasing administrative burden on teachers. He said, and I quote, "You used to work at a school and now you have a position in education. It doesn't have to be, but these words can express a world of difference." Redemeijer was a resistant pipe smoker and is almost always depicted with a pipe in the pictures. Also in the Chamber building, because at that time it was still possible. He was therefore described as "a friendly and modest pipe-smoking Easterner." President of the Chamber Tjeenk Willink mentioned Herman Redemeijer at his farewell to the Chamber, and I quote again: 'collegally, always willing to support others'. He also referred to an anecdote in which Redemeijer tried to arouse political interest with his grandson by concluding a visit to the Binnenhof with a visit to the McDonald's at the Buitenhof. In addition to his social and political career, Herman Redemeijer was a member of the board of Hogeschool IJsselland, chairman of the Stichting Rijdende School in Dalfsen, chairman of the library in Dalfsen and chairman of the Foundation Vrienden van Humanitas in Hengelo. Herman Redemeijer was known as a modest politician, who always remained critical and sharp in his analyses. Until he was old, he looked at Question Time every Tuesday, because he didn't want to miss out on current politics. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-2.u2	Thank you.
