ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next question is from Mr Wiersma, on behalf of the VVD, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, on the finances of Tata Steel. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Mr. Wiersma. Oh, we'll wait a minute. I'm too fast. Sorry. I call Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President, thank you. I must confess that I am not a subscriber of the Noordhollands Dagblad, but last weekend you couldn't get around it: a seven-page article about Tata Steel. Billions are flying away from Tata Steel. The image that emerges there is the image of the Indian owner who uses our beautiful Dutch Tata Steel as a flaptapper. That's worrying, because Tata Steel is important to a lot of people, just in terms of jobs. 11,000 people work at Tata Steel, which is also very important for entrepreneurs in SMEs. They do a lot of business with it. It is also very important for young people: many internships and many apprenticeships. It's extra worrying, because it's not the first time we've seen rumblings inside Tata Steel. Recently, the accountant PwC has already referred to the financial situation. There's been a lingering discussion about pollution. There's jobs on the road. This is now fortunately occurring in corona time, but it hangs above the market. The people who work at Tata Steel read this weekend that there might be loans between companies. Crazy loans. Perhaps there has been too expensive purchase of raw materials. They read that bills have also been filed with the government that may not be good. A whole series of blaming Tata Steel for raising a lot of questions. It is a question mark that gets in the way, causes confusion and must go away, because it is too important not to leave many people working there in uncertainty. So my question to the cabinet is: do we have a reaction to that? What is the government's reaction to this? Are things really unhonorable? How does the cabinet assess this state of affairs? Can they break up sense and nonsense in this article?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. As far as I can, I will, but I cannot, of course, see all kinds of business confidential data either. We don't always know exactly what's going on. But let's first note that Tata has invested heavily in the Netherlands in recent years. There are still very extensive and ambitious plans for a transition. There is no indication that Tata Steel Netherlands would somehow be wiped out. It's a fantastic company and it's also going to stay that way. But there is a point in the article in the Noordhollands Dagblad that suggests that unreasonably high purchase prices would be paid to the parent company, the so-called transfer prices, and that this would reduce profits. Let me be very clear about what I can be clear about. Each company pays tax in the Netherlands in accordance with the law. That's what we want, and that's the norm. If there is profit, there is profit tax. There's no other judgment than that. But the determination of that profit lies not with me, but with the Tax Office. The tax authorities are responsible for controlling transfer prices of this type. The Tax Administration uses a whole practice and theory on how these transfer prices should be set. So I can't judge whether this is true. I can only judge that if there is a profit there is a tax on profits to be paid. But the determination of that profit is not up to us in this Chamber. Then Mr Wiersma talks about'mad loans'. I don't know if loans are "crazy." For example, should there be an application under the JV scheme for a liquidity facility on which the government gives a guarantee, I know that the following will be part of the test. Not only will the bank, which provides the loan, see if it can reasonably be repaid, but it will also see if there are other possibilities for the company to provide liquidity. This is also a condition for the guarantee that the government could provide. So in itself, loans within a holding company are not necessarily "crazy," but it is true that if a government intervention is needed to keep the holding liquid, such a test is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	Now to the answer to Mr Wiersma's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	He asked me for a response. These were the two main points in the article in the Noordhollands Dagblad. I can go on about the bonuses. That is also made a point. Each company determines its own remuneration structure. The remuneration structure of Tata Steel Nederland is, as far as I know, simply accounted for annually by the works council. If Tata Steel wants to apply for NOW aid this year, the condition is that no bonuses are paid. So far, my assessment of the financial situation around Tata Steel can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for these clarifications as far as possible. Here, however, the lack of clarity at such an important company as Tata Steel can be fatal. It's not for nothing that messages like this are gonna hit like a bomb if you're working at this company, if you're one of those 11,000 people. We see that this company creates a lot of jobs. And not only that; it is also an important player in sustainability. There are many innovations. A lot of people are trained. The haze that things are going on there, I think they're wrong. I think it's important to get a look at that. Is that true now or isn't that true? I understand the Minister very well. I'm not a tax inspector either. That is not what we are all here, and it is perhaps a good thing. It would be very good if there was a message that a check would be made. Tata Steel may be able to do this himself, the Tax Administration can do this or perhaps both in cooperation. It must be clear that this has gone according to the rules. We want to be a reliable government for the big business. That's very important. However, we also want the big business to abide by the rules...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	... and helps us in the Netherlands to create beautiful jobs and innovation. That's what Tata Steel does, and we want it to keep doing this. Is the Minister prepared to do that check or to ask Tata Steel to provide full clarification? This must not remain above the market. That only makes it more difficult for very people in the future in a rather complex situation for Tata Steel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	I agree that all kinds of stories about large companies, when we do not know exactly what is going on, do not help the support they need and also the great contribution they still have to make to the whole transition. Simply because I don't know, I can't give you any openness on business-confidential data or on tax matters. In fact, it is my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, who is much closer to that, even legally forbidden to make statements about it. It is clear, however, that Tata himself has already informed us that Tata is trying to clarify a number of things himself. I like that. Companies must stand for their cause. They must be accountable, not only to shareholders and employees, but now to society to show what they are doing. They also need to show where they sometimes adjust their policies and how they incorporate new insights that lead to social progress in their policies. That's up to the company. Tata heard that call early. I understand from Tata, and I have seen that in the media too, that they have intentions in this direction. But again, I can't force the company to clap out of school about how, for example, they've regulated their taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	I am glad that, through the Minister, the cabinet makes another appeal to Tata Steel. We cannot be open and clear enough about what is or is not true here. It's not for nothing that seven pages appear in a newspaper. It's not for nothing that it's messing around. One of the reasons it's messing around is that the location in IJmuiden wants to be about its own investments. When money is made there, Tata Steel IJmuiden would initially want to be able to decide what they invest in, for example in sustainability, for example in innovation. At the moment this is still the case with Tata Steel but they are worried that this will not happen again next year. It's about the surplus cash policy. It's a complicated word but it's very important for people who work here at the Tata Steel and want to keep doing it in the future. Can the cabinet have talks with Tata Steel to ensure that we keep that in the Netherlands, so that Tata Steel can continue to be about its own investments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u13	Those conversations are going on to a great extent. They are fed very intensively by a separate team. That goes beyond so-called silent diplomacy. It's almost silent strategy. It is in everyone's interest that there is a healthy, clean and clean steel company in the Netherlands. It is as innovative as it is and will be sustainable in the future. It's very intensively spoken to. It's extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks and then Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u15	I'm upset about what I read. Like a supersprinkle, Tata eats India to the bone Tata IJmuiden. I hear the minister here say "That's worse than an employee of public affairs of Tata "that the company invests hugely in the Netherlands. That is absolutely not true. The technology of the HIsarna plant has disappeared to India. Fines must be imposed to enforce compliance with environmental rules. We all hear stories, including from the company itself, that the capital flows to India and that there is no euro to invest. That data is based on public annual reports, not on classified information. I demand that the Minister chart this together with the Secretary of State and that we go ahead with the imposition of CO taxes and environmental measures. This is the only way to ensure that there is real investment in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u16	I really think that term "supersprinkle" is premature. Unfortunately, it has not been given to me to clap all kinds of data that I have received from the company from the school, but it is a fact that there has been considerable investment in recent years. It is a fact that there are wonderful and very advanced investment plans. It is also a fact that there is intensive work on this, including with my department. Definitely not everything's okay. There are all kinds of issues on the agenda in the field of the environment. There are always new insights about any form of emission. You can't always avoid that at a company like this. I do not want to make my own judgement as to whether there is always enough or fast enough work to be done on this, because I cannot judge that at the moment. But that the parent company would behave like a grasshopper, I really want to get rid of that. By the way, I agree with Mr Van der Lee that the CO levy should continue as planned and that industry will have to fulfil its task. Tata Steel Netherlands is one of the companies that supports this and that has advanced plans for it. The company also does not lead the way in protest against any CO levy. I've received a letter from works councils. I don't think it's weird that people are worried, but I don't see any undermining lobbying from that company not to introduce a CO levy. I therefore agree with Mr Van der Lee on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u17	This is, of course, a serious issue. I do agree with the Minister that you should not judge until you know all the information, but the newspaper has done some pretty clear and thorough research. This shows, among other things, that very little tax has been paid in the last 20 years. So I would really like to ask the cabinet to make a very clear assessment of this. 'Cause this isn't nothing. This is something the Chamber should be able to check the cabinet for. So I do like to be clear about that from the cabinet, if that's possible. I have a question about the corona support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u18	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u19	Of course, it would be very strange if we had a company that was being eaten by an Indian parent company. I think the term "supersprinkhaan" might be a bit strong, but I think the fact that a lot of money is being channeled away to India, in an improper way, is undesirable, apart from the words we give to it, but there has also been a request for corona support from this company. That money seems to be used for the application of loans. That's based on that investigation. I think this is a number of practices which I think are not what we want, and this is certainly not the intention, apart from the technical question of whether it is all acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u20	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u21	Because the technical question of whether it's all right, I'm already over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u22	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u23	This is just undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr Verhoeven!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u25	My moral assessment of the tax outcomes is that where there is profit, profit tax must be paid. But it is ultimately the Tax Administration that determines whether that profit statement is correct. It checks that and also looks at transfer prices. That's my opinion of that. At that level, I think I could agree with Mr Verhoeven. The fact that the company is "empty" is also a conclusion that I do not share in advance. For example, if a joint venture scheme is requested, it will also examine the company's own ability to reasonably provide liquidity. There are all kinds of conditions attached to that, such as the condition that you have not made excess capital withdrawals in the last 12 months. The same applies to the granting of loans. So there are conditions that make sure you can't drain the company for a while and then meet other needs with government guarantees. So I'm gonna distance myself from that. Also with the NOW scheme, which is linked to the rule that no bonuses will be paid in that year. That year isn't over, but that rule does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Wiersma has already said how important Tata Steel is for the Netherlands. There are 11,000 people working and it even has the title Royal Hoogovens, as we know the company. So it's not a small company we're talking about here in the Chamber. If the company were to fall down tomorrow, we would be with the Minister of Economic Affairs. I think it is important that this Minister should also provide clarity, or the cabinet. When Mr Van der Lee's chief calls out "there is mass tax evasion"...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u27	The chef? He doesn't have a chef.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u28	...I think that's a suspicion. The Noordhollands Dagblad investigated this. I believe that in a company like Tata Steel, an important manufacturing industry in the Netherlands, the cabinet should clarify: is there a large-scale tax evasion? If it isn't, we're gonna have to take that blame away. 'Cause otherwise we're gonna be our companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u30	...all put in a bad light. And if it is, we'll say something about it here, too. Because we're also going for a fair economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Amhaouch...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, it is not given to me first of all because I do not know and secondly because I am not allowed to deal with Tata's declaration here. That simply cannot be done. But the reverse is what Mr Amhaouch hinted at and I think that I agree with him when I listen to his senses about it. If we don't have any hard evidence that something inauspicious is happening, I think we should also choose our words carefully. That's also a call I'm making here. Where there is something wrong, companies should be called upon to do so with all the sanctions and rules that we have. But as long as that is not the case and as long as we have no clarity about it, it also helps not to harm the image of a company by choosing our words. That is what I listened to in Mr Amhaouch's introduction and I really agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. I am concerned, however, about the Minister's answers, which have a high 'nothing' level. The PvdA Group is concerned about employment and a number of spokesmen here are concerned. The works council is concerned about the future of the company and the trade union movement is concerned about this. We see money being made and we see money being drawn away. Is there sufficient investment in the future of the company and employment? Then my question to the Minister. A motion was passed in June, unanimously in this Chamber, to intervene with unconventional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u34	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u35	My question to the Minister is whether, with the support of that motion, he is prepared to do so and whether he is prepared to enter into consultation with the trade union movement and the works council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u36	Look, about the future. Mr Moorlag's words speak in the sense that employment is extremely important here. I wouldn't want to translate it if that's what we need to worry about right now, but we need to take care of it. That is very explicit. There is a very intensive collaboration with this company to look into the future in the interests of the country and thus also in the interests of Tata Steel Nederland, how we can facilitate this and how we can ensure that there is a very innovative and ultimately profitable and sustainable steel company there. Because only under these conditions does employment remain here. I fully agree with Mr Moorlag. The analysis will have to show how conventional or unconventional the measures will ultimately be. I can't clap that out of the school, but I can say that the conversation is intense. The things that a government can and must do to keep this kind of industry in the Netherlands in a sustainable way, we will take very, very seriously into consideration. No matter how unconventional.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u37	Yeah, yeah. Thanks for the answer.
