ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen as the first speaker on behalf of the SP. In the first term, I will allow four questions on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's not going well. It's not going well at all. The cabinet has lost control of the virus, the number of infections is rising rapidly and the cabinet is losing confidence; the confidence of Dutch people in the measures and the confidence of healthcare professionals who have been sent on the road with an unsafe directive. Today the fall started. The autumn was the period from which we said all summer: then we have to be ready. Then it has to be tested, the source and contact research, in order. And what do we see today? Van Dissel said this morning in the briefing: we are in the second wave. At the same time the test streets are full, the waiting lists are long, there is hardly any test to come. Today, most regions have limited their research on sources and contact. So instead of scaling it up, it's limited. We also received the news in the last week that our healthcare providers have been sent out with an unsafe directive. Mr. Chairman. That does a bit with the confidence that at least the fraction of the SP has in the approach of the cabinet, but we also notice the Dutch and especially caregivers. We sent our caregivers out first, to fight that corona virus. That directive said that if it's just a volatile contact, you don't need protective equipment, because then it's safe. This morning we heard the excuses of the RIVM. RIVM has amended the directive, and it is now being advised to work by protective means. Because RIVM couldn't tell you this morning, I'm asking the Cabinet now. Can the Cabinet indicate why, on the basis of what scientific studies, the RIVM directive has been in such a way that we have sent our caregivers on the road unsafely for months? What is the basis for that? In the meantime, there has been a change of heart, since the directive has been amended and the use of protective materials has been advised. But what was the reason not to do that all this time? Time and time again, not only have we here in the Chamber, but also caregivers asked for it, because of course it also felt somewhat scary to go to an infected corona patient without protective equipment. Mr. Chairman. We are dealing with a cabinet that constantly wipes society out, but at the same time we see that the cabinet itself is not in order. We're dealing with a cabinet that has a minister who has to enforce the rules, but who's gonna beat them when he's having a party. We are dealing with a cabinet in which a minister is from Rotterdam, where it is mainly a lot of words, but very few actions. And we're dealing with a prime minister who blames everyone all the time. Then it's the singing Feyenoordsupporters, then it's the pretters, then it's the kids, then it's Aunt Sjaan, you name it all. Everyone did it, except for the Cabinet, when we should have prevented this from happening. During the first wave we also asked very often about the test capacity and the source and contact research, but then you could say "we were mugged" because everyone was mugged. But now we're not robbed in the second wave. We saw this coming. We have had the whole summer period to put things in order. We shouldn't have been mugged and we shouldn't have been mugged, but we are. We're in a second wave today and we're not ready. So my question to this cabinet is: how are they going to put things in order and how are they going to regain confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u4	Mr. Chairman. I got e-mail from Willem Verbaan. He is the father of Rachel Verbaan, a 45-year-old care worker who died of corona this spring. She's extensively portrayed in Het Parool. You see a wonderful person in the bloom of her life. She didn't have the protective equipment she needed to do her job safely. Her father asks me and us to address the person responsible. So the question is also: how is it possible that people didn't do their job safely? How is it possible that the World Health Organisation and ECDC directives, the European variant, were not followed? Does the Cabinet recognize it wasn't safe? Is the cabinet prepared to apologize for this and to contact the next of kin? How will the cabinet prevent this from happening again in the future? Marijnissen has already said that the trust of the health care workers, on whom we will all have to lean again, has been put to a considerable test. Mr. Chairman. Thursday we had a debate here. At one point I said: it's like a debate on the Titanic when you see what's happening around us. In that debate, the Prime Minister said that we must do everything we can to prevent that second wave. And the next day, his vice prime minister said, "We're in that second wave." That's what's happening now. That means we really have to do everything we can to get it under control. If anything else goes wrong, it's thousands of lives and hundreds of thousands of jobs. So that raises the question: how does the cabinet deal with this and what do we see happening? We're seeing chaos in testing policy. Chaos. 10,000 people who need a test won't get it. There are long waiting times, causing disruption in education. We're seeing chaos in the source and contact research. People were sent home because they were playing thumbs, people weren't getting a normal contract, but now it's being released in countless regions. We see unclear regional measures. We see double messages: people, stay home working. At the same time there is a campaign in the O.V.: the O.V. is okay; get back on the tram. And we see, in the middle of all that, ultimately as a measure, the deletion of the last round in the pub. My question is: who really thinks that is going to reverse this trend? If you then see how the cabinet communicates about this, you must note that the lessons of crisis communication are not being applied. Stick to the facts, be honest, admit mistakes, take people with you. What do we see happening? We see the Corona Minister who says: yes, but soon, tomorrow, I will come up with an app that solves everything. A little later he says, "I'm coming up with a dashboard soon. Soon I will come up with agreements on test capacity! Soon I'll be coming up with quick tests. And maybe soon there will be a vaccine." Overpromising and underdelivating. And the Prime Minister is standing next to it. We've seen how he does it. He always points to the Corona Minister. So we actually see that one says, "Yes, but tomorrow I will do the dishes, really!" And that the Prime Minister is standing next to it and says, "Yes, don't look at me; Hugo would do the dishes." This is how we are now communicating, but that does not create confidence. Mr. Chairman. The tide can still be turned. This is essential for an extraordinary number of Dutch people. Operationalise the crisis structure, including the decision-making structure associated with it. Take effective regional measures. Communicate clearly on that. Use the precautionary principle: rather intervene now, rather than regret for the rest of your life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u6	Mr. Chairman. We have a problem. And I'm not talking about the corona virus. We knew it was there and we knew it wasn't gone yet. But we have a problem. Alone in March we tried to work with the whole society, from young to old, to get it out, to beat it. That's not true anymore, with as low as a few influencers saying "free the people" and "I don't follow the rules anymore." But that's just the tip of the iceberg. There's a lot more people who don't trust it. I'm worried. If I see the number of infections rising, we're going straight to another lockdown, on massively radical measures. We have to prevent that. I feel that our society is not ready to make such sacrifices again. That has to do with the fact that we don't know where we're going. I think that we can only ask for additional steps from our society, and that this will also be accepted if we know what we are working towards. That can't be a vaccine that's hoping it's gonna be okay, or a treatment method. The only thing that we now know for sure can help in the short term to keep things manageable is testing. And the only thing we really control is also what really goes wrong. Mr. Chairman. So far we have had clemency with a lot of things that went wrong in this cabinet. It's a crisis. It's all happening for the first time. It could go wrong. But we knew we needed a lot of tests. Now research by Nieuwsuur shows that there were actually many more tests available, that they have already been offered, that we have not accepted them and that this was already the case in April. How does Minister De Jonge look back on this, and also the Prime Minister? Does he see that if we had intervened before, we could have had more test capacity? That might have kept the virus under control, so we wouldn't have been in this situation. I can also see that the acceptance is getting worse because people are less and less trusting the authorities. That's very worrying. I would like to say that I fully support the RIVM and believe in the cabinet. But for that, it's important that you admit mistakes when they're made. I really find it totally inappropriate how people have dealt with care, personal protective equipment, mouth caps. It has been repeatedly said, here in the Chamber, by Minister Van Rijn, that the directives were based on contamination risks and not on scarcity. It has been said by Minister De Jonge. The mail exchange of Nieuwsuur with RIVM shows: no, scarcity has not played a role at any time; the starting point of the directive was the safety of healthcare workers, patients and clients. It says a little further: the directive on 8 September is not based on scarcity. But scarcity played a role in drafting. I'm glad it's changed now, but I only have one question. If it wasn't all based on scarcity, what scientific or medical advice is the basis on which it wasn't necessary in the first place? There is a reference to that, but I don't see the evidence anywhere, and I want to see it. I just don't believe it. Because let me be quite honest: I have the impression that this cabinet has also asked RIVM to help while things are getting difficult. We need to make sure that we share the mouth caps fairly in this country. I think that's wrong. I think that's wrong, but in this crisis, I'm willing to overlook a lot. But then you have to be honest about it. And now I feel like that honesty isn't there. In fact, they're lying about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u8	Madam President. What makes the cabinet a huge mess. More than six months after the first corona contamination in the Netherlands, there is still insufficient test capacity. Every day as many as 10,000 people with complaints cannot get a test; 10,000 people. We're losing sight of the virus so completely. As if that weren't enough, 17 of the 25 GGDs, including those from the Randstad where the infections are getting the most, have now also reduced the source and contact research due to lack of staff. It's unbelievable. It is also dangerous, because 10,000 tests a day are too few 70,000 people a week who are helped later; 70,000. With a 6.1% infection, there are 4,000 corona patients who don't know where they are, who probably don't all stay at home and whoever is late with source and contact research. As a result, the number of sick people walking around and infecting other people runs in the thousands. It's irresponsible what the Cabinet is doing. The Chamber, we, has been asking for about a hundred times throughout all political groups for a greater test capacity for six months. We've asked a thousand times for sufficient staff at the G.D.D.'s. We've filed countless motions. We have pointed out examples abroad. We've made suggestions, and yet it's still going wrong. What have you been doing over the past few months, Mr. De Jonge? I thought you were supposed to be prepared for this. The border was low. In case of colds, people need to be tested already. Everyone knows that by the end of September hundreds of thousands of people are suffering from colds. Isn't it incredible that you weren't prepared for that? If you can't handle it anymore, Mr. De Jonge, through you, Madam President, please let someone else do it. There is too much at stake: the health of our people, our economy and our freedom. We can't afford a minister who can't handle it anymore. Mr. Chairman. It is also incomprehensible that the cabinet still does not recognise the important role of contamination of corona by microdrops, known as aerosols, and the accompanying measures for good ventilation in indoor spaces. From America to Germany that is acknowledged. The German Chancellor even talks about a "large role" of aerosols in corona. But in our country, the cabinet and Van Dissel don't want it. The question is, how much longer can they keep doing that? I ask the Prime Minister to admit your mistake. It's okay to admit a mistake at all. Going on the wrong road is disastrous and will have a huge impact on our economy. Mr. Chairman. Because the cabinet is out of order, is making a mess of testing policy and underestimating aerosol contamination, we are in danger of being pushed into a second lockdown by mistaken policies, with all sorts of terrible restrictions on freedom, which in any case will not receive the support of the PVV. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the personal protective equipment. We've all seen the broadcast of Newshour with mouth cap gate. It's too shocking for words. Van Dissel has secretly adapted guidelines. RIVM is now trying to get rid of it with rocky excuses, but the fact is that thousands of employees in the care department thought it wasn't necessary for medical reasons. So they thought it was safe not to wear a mask when they got close to people infected with corona. Now it turns out that advice had something to do with scarcity. Caretakers have been fooled. With their health, a dirty game has been played. And then Rutte dares to deny that the Netherlands is an intensely corrupt country, Madam President. Chaos! Chaos and disorder; these are the terms that belong to this corona policy and to this cabinet. And I'm telling you, stop wasting it and finally get your shit together. Finally, Mr President. Pay the care workers more structuralally! Even if I have to make a motion on this every week, I won't let them, because they deserve it. We cannot explain giving 50 billion to southern Europe, but less than 2 billion to our care heroes. That's outrageous. So give them that money and at least do something good!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the discussion about the masks in short contact in nursing care. The suggestion that is being made is that it was actually medically necessary to wear them, but because of the scarcity RIVM said not to do so. I'd find that problematic. The other option is that the medical judgment is pure in itself, namely that the wearing of short contact is not necessary, but that over time it appeared in practice that there are not so many situations where you can say: here really is short contact. And after that, the directive has been amended. If something is labeled as not medically necessary, there are shortages and other things are medically necessary, you automatically get that the priority goes to the acts that the directives state is necessary. That could explain how it happened. So my question to the Minister is: which of these two variants is it or is there another variant? Because then I can also know how problematic the way it has gone. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the test capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u11	On the previous point, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u12	Of course, I agree with Mr Dijkhoff's question. That's what I've been saying. I am curious to know what Mr Dijkhoff thinks about the fact that not only we here in the Chamber, but in particular the carers themselves, of course, have said very often, in fact, from the start of the corona crisis and from the moment that the directive was in place, that: how can we send us unprotected to a person infected with corona? How does Mr Dijkhoff feel about this now with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u13	When I read it, my impression is very good, which is why I asked the Minister that it can be done without a mouth cap in a, perhaps theoretical, setting in which you reach something for a moment or so. But how often does that happen? And how practical is that? 'Cause if you do anything and that person asks you to do something for him, you're gonna do it as a health care provider. From a lot of things that might start as short contact, you can't predict that it'll be short as well. But in the meantime, you're standing there without a mouth cap on those actions. Then you're not gonna say, "Wait, if you want me to do more, I'm gonna go get a mouth cap." It doesn't work that way in practice. I have no suspicion of the scientists who have written the medical judgment, but I wonder how practical that is, so how often that situation occurred in practice. And if it turns out that this isn't the case in the workplace, you have to adjust it. Then you just have to get that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u14	I believe that Mr Dijkhoff's reply confirms precisely the absurdity of that earlier RIVM directive. Because caregivers have just indicated the incident that Mr Dijkhoff describes, exactly from day one. That is so in the daily practice of care. If you walk with me for a day, you'll see it doesn't work that way. You could say, "Stay away from me." But if someone falls or something else happens, are you gonna stand there and watch without interfering? Of course you'll step in. That is exactly why healthcare professionals have asked us from day one: why does our employer often send us unprotected under the RIVM directive? What does Mr Dijkhoff think of that? Because with retroactive effect, left or right, should we say that it was the wrong assessment? If you've been robbed by a virus that no one knows, wouldn't you think you should be sure? If there was any doubt, then we should have said: give those people protection, because they come near a corona patient, they are at the greatest risk of all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u15	When I think back to that period, we did not all say: oh, the directive says it is not necessary, never mind. We've all pushed, I think, apart from that judgment. We wanted to have more protective equipment as soon as possible, so that you can also provide protective equipment and mouth caps in cases where it is desirable for other reasons, regardless of that advice. I think we also found that the focus was purely and exclusively on hospitals for a very long time, so that other care, the caring care, got a bit shaky. That does not change because of what is happening with this directive. That only confirms the image that you have to make sure that you have no deficits and can fill in very quickly, so that you are not dependent on the precise guidelines. Then you can say: okay, short contact is not necessary, but there is a real chance that short contact will lead to longer contact, so we still do protective equipment. In times of shortages and distribution of scarcity, you always have people who don't get the resources you'd like them to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u16	I think that's serious. Mr Dijkhoff himself refers to the scarcity and shortages and that it may be logical that you start thinking about risks. Does Mr Dijkhoff not think that RIVM should be based solely on medical scientific insights in such directives? If a different balance is made on the basis of scarcity, we should talk about this. Every time we asked for it, it was said: no, that scarcity does not matter at all, it is just safe. From day one of the corona crisis is indicated from the workplace that it was not safe. We have indeed seen how things have gotten out of hand, unfortunately, in the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u17	For me, scarcity should not play a role in the scientific, medical assessment, but it is the consequence of making the medical analysis that these actions are less susceptible to infection than others. If you have plenty, it doesn't matter that much. Then you say: it's less susceptible to infection, but we still have enough and it's better to do it anyway, because there's always a risk. A consequence of the scarcity combined with the judgment, I believe, has led to them not being provided there. It should not be the case that as scientists you say to each other: this is actually too bad, but then we have deficits, so we change the advice. That is not allowed; let me be clear about that. It's best if you don't have any scarcity. Then you'll be much more generous with those resources. At some point we had via all kinds of channels so many other parties that people on the tram and the train were going to wear them anyway. But those first few weeks and months, it was a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u18	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u19	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. If that is Mr Dijkhoff's reasoning, how does he explain that we had the foreman of the National Consortium Aids here at the end of April and he said: we have plenty. He even said we could order up to five times more protective equipment, but we didn't, because we didn't need it, because we had plenty. Nevertheless, the directive was still such that caregivers were sent out unsafely. If your reasoning is correct, should this directive at least have been amended by the end of April? It wasn't adapted until mid-August. All this time, caregivers have been working unsafely, while there was enough stuff, according to the consortium, and that directive has not been amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u20	I do not think that the directive has been amended, so that they now say: short contact must be done. It is more so that it is so rare that it is better not to describe it separately as a category. Then you fall into another category, which has always been there, because with longer and more intensive contact it was prescribed. In my opinion, it is also always the case that the directive was not a prohibition for an employer to use it. As the scarcity declined, there was more room to apply them in broader categories than only in medically badly needed advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u21	I have to admit that I'm quite a fan of Mr Dijkhoff's loose, nonchalant style, but now it's getting to me. In the first part of his plenary contribution, he indicated as the second option that whatever might have happened, is that we thought: we don't have very much contact in those nursing homes, and that later we found out that that contact was actually quite intense. In the meantime, I notice that more than 1,000 of the 2,500 nursing homes had corona. We're dealing with the most vulnerable group of people. I find this nonchalance, to say "we've only tried it a little bit," not rhyme with each other, if indeed specialists have already said that this is simply not justified. We've been asking questions about this. The answer was every time that wasn't necessary, and that's why employers said we're not doing it. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is this: during one of the major crises we did not think up how to work in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u22	I think that Mr Azarkan is throwing his accusation of nonchalance around a little too nonchalant, because I really do not think that is appropriate today. I said that there is another option, which I hear telling RIVM, also during the briefing this morning. And I'll ask the minister which one it is, and if there's another third. I have said before, in previous debates, that it was painful that there were shortages of resources, that they had to choose where to use them, and that we could have used them in places where you wanted us to have enough or more protective equipment, and that in that nursing care we all recognised the seriousness too late, but let me keep it to myself. Look, of course I don't do that division myself, so I take some distance in the hardness with which I judge others who worked hard at that time. And we ask the questions afterwards. We do that now, and then you have to judge whether it went right or wrong and how it could do better next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u23	I must also admit that in the debates we had here this summer, in April, May, June and July, I saw little criticism and little control on his part. So when he says 'we only ask the questions afterwards'... No, I say to Mr Dijkhoff, when we get signals from people who say 'it's gonna get out of the claws', we should be asking critically what these considerations are. I have not heard from him, or at least from my side and from colleagues. And I find it, once again, very nonchalant to say now: well, we started with those nursing homes; we found out at some point that there is still much more contact there than we thought. Surely we can expect the people who advise us on this to know what is happening in a nursing home, and how often and intensive that contact is? Especially when we asked the same question here in April at a time when infections were spreading enormously. And that is certainly the party that dies of it. We saw that half of a nursing home died. Then we can't send in personnel without at least protective equipment. I can't help but think he's being so nonchalant about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u24	The fact that Mr Azarkan is holding on to something does not mean that it is true. I think it's a little weird, too. I think the least problem of the debate today is Mr Azarkan's opinion on my attitude. I think we've all been frustrated by the fact that there weren't enough protective equipment. There has been a lot of hard work in buying stuff outside all procedures, in order to have more protective equipment as soon as possible so that you could use them in as many places as possible. At the beginning of the shortage, a distribution was made with particular focus on hospitals. As soon as there was more, it was made more widely available. I can repeat what we have all seen a few times over the last few months, namely that if you were allowed to do it again, you would have wanted to provide the nursing home care and especially where there is corona, with protection equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u25	But that's exactly the crux. A number of people were shouting that back in April. What matters is that the cabinet indicated that it was not because of scarcity that distribution but because of the medical advice. And it just isn't. That requires a critical attitude from the Chamber. That is indeed important because we are standing here on behalf of those who cannot do so themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u26	The e-mail exchange between RIVM and Nieuwsuur, which has been revealed, shows that RIVM takes the view that that amended directive of 17 August means that it is necessary to wear personal protective equipment in those short-term contacts. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that this means that it was not safe in the period before that, not in accordance with what they later consider necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u27	I believe that it has indeed been shown that the category where medically unnecessary was not a very practically common category and that you would have liked them to do that work with protective equipment earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u28	What we wanted... But Mr Dijkhoff just said that it had been adapted later and that it was a practical matter. No, RIVM says: it is necessary since 17 August to wear personal protective equipment to those short-term contacts. Nothing has changed about the virus since then, so that means it was necessary for that too. That's why people are so, neatly looking for the word, angry at the fact that they've been ringing the bell all this time and doing the job without those protective equipment. I can follow Mr Dijkhoff's question to the cabinet. But he must also acknowledge that the RIVM also says: it was not safe until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u29	I do not see any changes in the virus or in the issues underlying the advice. I'm also trying to figure out where the difference is. I might say it in a slightly different way, but I think we have already found that you would rather have been broader in the caring care that mouth caps and other protective equipment would have made available because that would have been safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u30	Of course, it's not without obligation. Because what is the consequence of the fact that at the beginning of the crisis you and your government put protective equipment, including mouth caps, on the plane to Wuhan? Remember, the signature of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister was underneath. Our entire supply of protective equipment went on a plane to China, to Wuhan. We never saw it again. And the result was scarcity. Of course, that scarcity you're crying about right now isn't without commitment. Do you know that 18,000 health care workers have been infected? 18,000 health care workers got corona because of that scarcity, because we sent our supplies to China on a plane to Wuhan. That's unforgivable, isn't it? Those are the consequences you should not have words for, for which you must say not only mea culpa but you must say that you are deeply ashamed that the cabinet has done so with your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u31	That scarcity is definitely a problem. That scarcity was a problem, has caused problems, whatever variants you want to stick to it. I think that the example of the plane that was sent is very visual, but that after that there were many more mouth caps coming this way than were sent. But that didn't help in those first few weeks, of course. I think you would have had bigger problems eventually if you hadn't done so and couldn't have set up a good air bridge with China for all the months after when protective equipment was delivered. But I think we have all noticed that this scarcity has led to the situation that you have not been able to use masks and other protective equipment in certain areas, where you would have wanted to do so. With all the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u32	Your government sent those masks to China. Now you say, "Well, that was a good idea." Well, trust me, that wasn't a good idea. Because because of that we have had for weeks a shortage of masks for home care, for nursing care, for hospital care. That has started very slowly. And 18,000 nurses got infected because of it. I think that's why even 10 to 15 employees died. Those are incredible consequences. And now we see, as Mr Asscher says, if we indeed look at the mail exchange of Nieuwsuur with the RIVM, that scarcity has simply played a role. Now the RIVM says, "You have to use them." Ergo, all those care workers are thinking: yes, but then I've been doing my important work for months, lovingly, for all those patients, for all those elderly people, and then I see at once that I have to wear it. So I should have worn it, too. So I've just been in danger. Can you imagine that this would make these workers in the care sector feel very pricked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u33	I imagine they're feeling shorthanded. I could also imagine that at the very beginning of this pandemic, when we repeatedly asked: can we deliver enough protective equipment now, because there are shortages, there are places where we want to use them but where we can't? At first Mr Veldman asked that because I had to stay at home in the south, but then I asked for it myself in debates. So I can not only imagine it, but I also noticed that there was a cry for help back then, even in home care where they did not have a hand gel at some point. Then I went to bring a bottle myself. Yeah, I can't just imagine that, I was there at the time. At that time we asked again and again: what can we do, what else is needed to deliver those mouth caps and other protective equipment in time? I have once again disrespected myself about a delivery that proved to be wrong. So, yes, I can imagine. And I remember, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u34	I will stop talking about the cause of this scarcity: sending the material to China. But do you not agree with me that the RIVM, that Minister De Jonge is the RIVM, should have been honest with those care workers? And I think that might be the worst of it all. They should have just said: listen, we're doing it because of the scarcity, but actually it's not medically responsible. They have acted as if it had nothing to do with scarcity; they have acted as if it was just healthy and safe to do their important work without a mouth cap for those sick and elderly people with corona. And indeed, in mid-August there will be a new rule: you have to wear a mouth cap for your health. In other words, it was irresponsible not to do so. And those people already think the scarcity is bad. But these people just think: had been honest; we have been lied to! You can't say in mid-August "and now it has to be for your health" when it didn't have to be for that. Because once again, nothing has changed about that virus. So these people don't just feel abandoned, they feel lied to. The cabinet should have been honest. Do you agree with me that the worst of all is that this minister, responsible for RIVM, has not been honest with those employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u35	That assumes that at the time that advice was given, the people who gave the advice knew that they wrote something that wasn't right and that they changed it because of scarcity. That's a problem. It shouldn't be possible. Hence the question of whether it is. So I don't share that assumption. That's the first thing. Secondly, I believe that during those periods we also had those honest and difficult talks. I believe that we have said to people in healthcare, including in hospitals, that we do not have the materials we would like. I think they improvised, looked at re-use and used the resources in a way you wouldn't use if you had plenty. I think there was also the honesty on those fronts that there were deficits. It's not like I didn't find out until now that there were deficits. I think that was a weekly topic of conversation. I'd find it weird if we had that honesty all the time, except for one part. So I'm not going along with the idea that, with the knowledge of that time, advice was miswritten because of the scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u36	I also feel that the VVD is reacting a little hypothermia. We're talking about some really intense stuff here. In any case, I would like to ask the following question. There's been a report from the union that says, "Maybe we're going to follow a legal procedure." Another union says that a fund should be set up to compensate people in care who have become ill due to the negligence of this cabinet. I know that the VVD was not in favour of rewarding people anymore, but are they open to setting up a fund to compensate people who have become ill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u37	If you get sick at work... I don't say "no" in principle, but I'm just thinking if it's not already settled in the Netherlands that there are ways to compensate if you get sick at work. After all, we've already arranged so much. That is the only thing that comes to my mind not to say immediately: we are going to think along with that. So let's talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u38	In any case, I hear a sympathetic attitude towards this kind of problem. In any case, I think that is a good thing, because I am very concerned about what this cabinet has failed with regard to the care workers and, of course, indirectly, all those vulnerable people they came across.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u40	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the test capacity. The idea is that the desire to have the tests carried out by the smaller labs, or at least by the labs we already had contacts with in the network, would have led to less capacity now. That impression exists, and that's not good. So I would like to ask the Minister: if those larger labs or those external labs from outside the network had been turned on before, could we have tested more now? Do these labs have their own contacts or their own supplies to use more test material? Or should those labs then have used the same scarce amount of test material? Because then we would have more theoretical capacity, but we would not be able to test more now. Mr. Chairman. After testing, the source and contact research, the BCO. We also heard that capacity is insufficient. We also heard that enlargement is a problem especially now. It is not about the number of people who would like to do it, but about the fact that it has to be under medical supervision. The question is whether we should hold on to that. Now the solution is to ask more from people themselves, from an association or from the location where it happened. We ask you to conduct some kind of contact investigation of your own, to make contact with the people who have been there. That also happens without medical supervision. So my question is: shouldn't we do a BCO that is carried out from the GGD and is carried out with trained people, but isn't that under strict medical supervision, which is a shortage? And who actually has the overview of the whole process of testing and scaling? Who can make a decision if there's too much discussion? If other countries use tests soon, or rather than us, do you have to wait until November? So we're buying them in already? Or are we waiting until we get a green signal in November, and then we see that stocks are running out? Mr. Chairman. The most important thing is our own behavior. We've been able to ease the intelligent lockdown. This has allowed us to reduce a great deal of economic misery. Sometimes it seems as if many people in the country thought: it is actually done; the sun is shining, we go back to normal. I get that feeling, though. I've had that one day too, but it doesn't work that way. The shops, restaurants, stadiums and theatres can only remain limited if we stick to the rules for the rest. If we look up the rules and the boundaries and break the rules, it's gonna go wrong. The more we get the virus, the more it gets in the hospital, the more there are on the ic and the more they die. In that case, we are already at an early stage, and we are already seeing that happening. People who need other care are being postponed. If it goes further than it is now, more people die from cancer and heart problems, for example, because they cannot be helped. If we work at home, keep our distance and stay home in case of complaints, we can reward ourselves with dinner, we can go to the movies and save a lot more people suffering. So I'd like to ask the Cabinet how we're gonna make sure we all understand that it's serious again. Does the Cabinet think a steady rhythm can help? Think of a steady rhythm of letters, briefings, possible debates and press conferences. It now seems as if some people sometimes think: there is no crisis until a press conference is called. Can public communication also be increased? Mr. Chairman. It'll all be a lot harder than the first wave. We know more about the virus, but it's much heavier for us people. It's taking a very long time. There are fewer sick and fewer deaths in the numbers every day. Some people think, "See? Then it's not so bad." I do understand that people take refuge in the things they want to hear. 'Cause let's face it, I think we're tired of it all. I would like nothing more than to check out myself and say: I'm out; corona, just skip me. But that's not how it works. A hashtag is not a vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u41	Thank you. Oh, Mr Wilders has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u42	Well, a little more, if you don't mind. It's about the functioning of the government, the reliable government. That's why a lot of people are dropping out now, with this cabinet, when it comes to the corona measures. My question to Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD Group is what he thinks that the cabinet is not sufficiently prepared when it comes to testing capacity, source and contact research. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u43	I see that we often get the numbers that the cabinet had planned to get, you can now test much more than ever before, but it is not enough. The virus has developed faster than what was assumed in the schematics. I don't think there's much brakes on it: well, that's enough. In the meantime, however, it has not been possible to organise much more capacity than was stated in the schedule. But you do need it now. So it's just too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u44	Finally. Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u45	Sorry, Chairman. We'd do it in three. I'm supposed to be able to make an interruption, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u46	No, no, no. We've agreed on four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u47	We didn't agree to anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u48	Yeah, that's what we really agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u49	Well, I wasn't there, but let me finish this one, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u50	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u51	Look, I asked Mr Dijkhoff what he thought, and his answer is not a good one. And why isn't it a good answer? Because Mr De Jonge and this cabinet have put the threshold that someone has to be tested extremely low. Do you know when people should be tested? You don't have to have the flu, you don't have to have a fever: people have to be tested if they're sneezing or coughing alone. That's what it says on the RIVM site. There are a lot of complaints, but sneezing and coughing is enough. Even if you don't have the flu, if you don't have a fever: sneeze and cough you have to get tested. Everyone knows, Mr Dijkhoff, that everyone in the Netherlands knows that there are a lot of people sneezing and coughing here at the end of September. How could it be that Mr. De Jonge was not prepared for a huge influx of tests? He has set the threshold himself so low that almost everyone who sneezes and coughs has to be tested, and so people do so massively. What I blame him and what I think you should blame him for, and with him the whole cabinet, is that if you lower the threshold, then you should also know that a child still knows that a blind horse still knows that hundreds of thousands of people are being tested, because at the end of September there are hundreds of thousands of people who sneeze and cough. He didn't do that, and that's what he blames. He should have been prepared for that. Not me, but the Minister has set the line so low. Then he should've made sure there was enough test material.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u52	Whether I find that reproachable then, let me depend on the efforts and whether a conscious choice has been made not to order things. Suppose last week or two weeks the Minister had sent a letter to some supplier in the vein of: "Oh, it doesn't go so fast, I think that number of more than 30,000 a day is enough; never mind, I don't need that stuff. Yeah, we'd have had a whole different conversation. But if attempts are made from all sides to recruit people, to buy laboratory capacity, and the bottleneck is the amount of test materials, then I still think that is a problem for the fight against virus, but it does change my opinion of those who are trying to get all these materials. If they are ordered, but they are not delivered and production is lagging behind, because the whole world has the same problem, then it is a different story. Hence my question about the next phase, about rapid tests. Are we going to make sure that we already place orders for that so that we can use them immediately after we have approved them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u53	Mr Asscher and then Mr Azarkan. No? Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u54	Mr Dijkhoff says that people must keep to the agreements. I agree; that can make a huge contribution. Whichever BN doesn't feel like doing that anymore, I think that's kindergarten behavior; that's not gonna help here. My question is: does Mr Dijkhoff also recognise that this willingness to stick to it is being undermined by the cabinet itself? It's being undermined by the Cabinet when you see the Grapperhaus effect. It's totally unbelievable if he's talking to people right now about complying with the rules. It's being undermined when people download an app, okay? Good behavior! Then get a message "you need to get tested now," but you can't. It's undermined if the fact that you have to wait so long for a test means that you're waiting with the whole family at home, that you might miss income if you're self-employed. Eventually you also have to look at the responsibility of the cabinet to enable people to comply with those rules, and that's where it's left behind, there's chaos. Is it not time for the cabinet to put the crisis structure back into operation which left it in May?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u55	A few things. I just need to see if I remember them all. In the debate on the Minister's wedding, I also indicated here that this is a dent in credibility. And of course, if it all runs streamlined, if you pull in everything you want, if it all works out and runs smoothly, then it strengthens the support. If you don't, if you get an app message, but have to wait a long time and think "if I have to wait three days for a test now, then I'm gonna miss my income or else I'm gonna get in trouble," then that makes the temptation for someone to say: it's just a brat, I'm gonna go to work anyway. In any case, many more people are going to work now, and that's not all because they couldn't have gotten a test. There are several components to that. If it all runs smoothly, it strengthens the support. Then you have an oiled machine, you can easily follow the rules and make it very easy and comfortable for people to comply with those rules as best they can. That's how I feel about that. On the crisis structure: I do not have to decide here how the cabinet meets. I have just asked whether the cabinet itself thinks that it would help us to support it and so that we all understand how serious it is, when we have a definite rhythm of each other talking about this, consulting, press conferences and also the technical briefings. When I followed it again this morning, I thought: when I hear this every week or every other week, it makes it very clear to me how serious the situation is and how big my own share as one of the 17 million is to contribute to getting the virus under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u56	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with the concerns and questions about testing, source and contact research and personal protective equipment. I'll ask questions about that later. But now: a caring bonus for all care heroes who have contributed to the fight against the coronavirus. This was the subject of my motion for a resolution adopted unanimously. I understand very well that there has been unrest among the caregivers about who does and who does not get the bonus. In fact, a hand-out for healthcare providers has appeared to support the application for the bonus. The "no, unless" list of professions and functions that are not eligible for the health bonus of €1,000 net is in a number of points totally inimitable. For example, those who have had a very large share in the necessary increase in ic capacity in the first corona peak, such as surgical assistants and anesthesia nurses, are excluded from the bonus. Why, I ask the Minister. The obstetricians and maternity care, especially a professional group where you do not have delayed care, are also exposed to the risk of infection at each contact. The same applies to pharmacists' assistants, domestic help, outpatient assistance, home guidance, paediatric nurses, mental caregivers and drug delivery workers. And what about the neighborhood care, counseling and daily spending? I would urge the Minister to move these and other professions to the list of professions and positions that would anyway receive the health bonus. Can the Minister confirm that if the employer applies for a bonus for the care heroes currently on the "no, unless" list, because they have made an extra commitment to corona, they can assume that this request will be met? After all, the healthcare bonus is intended to be an extra appreciation for all healthcare professionals and support staff who have performed an exceptional performance during this pandemic. Mr. Chairman. We're gonna need every care hero right now, and we're gonna need every care hero right now. Don't let them get tired, disillusioned and underappreciated leave care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u58	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u59	Mr. Chairman. #I don't care anymore: at that point in the corona crisis we have arrived. I reject that call, because as long as the virus is in the game, we must also participate. I was therefore my hands, keep my distance, avoid crowds and stay at home with complaints, believing that if we all use our common sense, we can all get to the musicians who are so dear to us faster. But I also ask the question: where does this call come from? How did conspiracy thinkers get such a foot in the door? I think we should look carefully at the cabinet approach here, because as long as public policies to control the virus are not in order, there is also less perspective and clarity for people. A test policy that is in order is not only the best economic support package, it is also the best guarantee of people's support for the rules we need. The principle of reciprocity applies here. People follow the rules when the government gets the case in order. People follow quarantine rules when they can count on a quick test result. But if it takes you too long to get a rash like that, people think twice about getting tested. Then they have to make the choice: am I going to restrict my freedom or am I going out for work? Mr. Chairman. On March 16th, the WHO said: test, test, test. Since then, we have had thirteen debates on it and yet we are losing sight of the virus. The Minister is now going to deploy high-volume laboratories. He scales up to foreign labs and makes agreements with pooling laboratories. Of course, that's all wise, but it should have been sooner. Mr. Chairman. Let's use this moment above all to look forward. Prime Minister Rutte and Minister De Jonge assure us that the test capacity will be put in place in the next few weeks, but I ask them: why are they now confident that the 70,000 will be realistic in the second half of October? I also ask them to share dilemmas or risks or mistakes that are made, because transparency about the crisis approach is good for acceptance. Mr. Chairman. Now that the need is for the man, it is also good to think about some solutions. One. Ask for help abroad. We are getting signals that Belgium can help us with laboratory capacity immediately. Is the cabinet in talks with our southern neighbours to make use of the Belgian overcapacity in the short term? Two. Create a new roadmap. From now on, we are working with three phases of alerting per region. Is it not wise to have a set of standard measures at each stage, so that the policy becomes more predictable for people and entrepreneurs, and to be able to intervene more quickly if things are not going well? Three. Explain better what measures you are taking and why, for example now at the catering industry. Based on what figures does it appear that an hour earlier closing of the catering industry is effective and proportionate? Four. Communicate clearly and focussed on the corona rules and measures. Because do we now reach all the target groups we want to reach? Should we not, as Mr Dijkhoff said, go to a steady rhythm of briefings and press conferences? Mr. Chairman. The directive on masks for non-hospital staff continues to raise questions. Scissors should not cause care workers to work unnecessarily unsafely. Here's what I want to know. How low is the risk of infection in volatile contact? Why was the WHO's opinion not taken into account when drafting the directive in the spring? And is there or is there not sufficient stock for the preventive use of protective equipment in nursing homes, where the number of infections is now increasing? Finally, Mr President. D66 wants all travellers from orange areas to be tested. In August, the Minister indicated that this was going to happen, but the grandly announced test street at Schiphol Airport is now suddenly a test. When's that test street gonna open again? And when does the Cabinet carry out our adopted motion on the priority testing of childcare staff so that children from working parents can actually go to work, children can continue to develop and employees can safely do their work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u60	D66 says to look ahead, but we also have to look very deeply backwards today. It turns out that people got infected when they didn't have to. Those protective equipment should have been there for them. I have also asked this question to the VVD: can all those care workers who have become ill count on you by making a fund available for any additional costs that might cause them to suffer? Can they count on this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u61	Yes. I think the cabinet has it in progress for a long time. Among other things, on the initiative of Mr Steven van Weyenberg, this has already been asked to the cabinet before the summer. There was then an initiative from the care department to set up a fund specifically for care workers who become infected and may be affected by it in the long term. If I understood correctly before the summer, the cabinet is also implementing it, but perhaps the Minister will be able to explain this in the reply in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u64	I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I stand here tonight in place of my colleague Gert-Jan Segers, who cannot be present because of a funeral in the family today. Mr. Chairman. We look straight into the eyes of the second wave. The number of infections is rising at an alarming rate. All eyes were on this cabinet on Friday. What's gonna happen now to stop the virus? And, of course, we must all stick to the basic measures, such as those 1.5 meters, for example. But then what? The last round in the hospitality can no longer be served. Is this the dyke we're going to stop the second wave? But first, let's take a step back. The reason why we now need additional measures is because the main pillar of the cabinet is at odds with testing, tracing and isolating debt securities. The question is therefore whether the corona approach to preventing the second wave is going to run smoothly. What is this minister's reflection on this? I would also like to focus specifically on the test capacity. This one turned out to be an Achilles heel from the beginning. Each time promises have been made that could not be fulfilled. If you live in The Hague and you need a test, you can go to Zierikzee in a few days, if you can find somewhere. There are also signs that competition between laboratories has frustrated the scaling up and that cooperation between the Ministry, the GGDs and the laboratories is not working properly either. Can the Minister also reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. I ask the Cabinet to clarify how it thinks it can still contain the virus and what we can do to prevent the hospitals from flooding again. What options does the cabinet have if in a week's time it appears that the current measures are not sufficient? Or is it all about the regions now? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A major concern remains the capacity in hospitals. What is the situation with regard to the scaling up of ic capacity and how are the ic nurses now involved? Do they also have control over the choices they make? This also applies more broadly to other health care institutions, such as nursing care. Do employees also have the power to talk about decisions taken when the virus enters a healthcare institution? Last Friday, we were informed that the policy on protection in the care of the elderly was indeed based on scarcity in the first phase of the crisis, and this is what the Chamber has so often asked for. RIVM has also announced today that the directive was indeed based on medical insights. But what about it, exactly? Caregivers should be able to trust that their safety is paramount. Does the Minister therefore recognise that something has not gone well here, not even in communication? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Whatever the approach, it stands or falls with support. So it becomes even more important that this cabinet is transparent and makes clear what can be done, but also what cannot be done and why something cannot be done, what cannot be done, what cannot be done and why something cannot be done. Only in this way can we maintain or, where necessary, restore the trust of society in the approach. For the success of policy stands or falls with support and a shared sense of urgency. This requires open communication, especially when there is a lot of discussion on certain issues, such as the reliability of tests or the composition of the vaccine. In order to maintain support, the government must continue to communicate clearly. In addition, as with everything else: rather the honest story, than tough language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u66	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u67	Mr. Chairman. That second wave of infections, we had hoped that it would not happen, but of course we already took serious account of the fact that it could happen. The question today is: are we sufficiently prepared? The answer is unfortunately: no, if you look at the testing and at the source and contact research. It is crucial that we monitor at this stage how and how fast the virus spreads. That was and is a cornerstone of policy: testing everyone with complaints, source and contact research. Exactly this is now under great pressure. The question is, what is behind this poachy scaling up of laboratory capacity? After so many months you would expect more. What exactly is the role of these tenders in this? It was a strange story that you would have to choose a very extensive route by means of invitations to tender. What's the deal with that, exactly? There is now a priority provision for care and education. But it looks like that fast-test street is overloaded again. The question is therefore how long it will take before this is in order. And what about the availability of tests for other crucial professions, such as police and food supply? Because if they have to pay the bill and have to wait longer until they can be tested, that of course also has a big disadvantage. Why does the Cabinet attach so much to the fact that everything has to go through the GGDs? Could it not give air somewhere if, for example, the police organisation or another organisation could also choose their own route? That is a question I would also like to put to the Minister. Then the masks. The two themes that jump out tonight are actually the viscousness of the scaling up of the test capacity, but also the shadowiness around those mouth caps. Honestly, I was somewhat against it, also because of the long letters and the time tables. Of course, that is very useful, but do you not end up in a bit of a vocabulary and an endless debate in which you keep talking along each other? All this while you have the feeling that earlier this year was expressed in the common sense of the healthcare sector: why not also use these so-called volatile contacts with mouth caps? We heard that all the time and therefore the rather misunderstanding that was said: no, that is not necessary. Now it seems that this scarcity has played a role. You will find that the shadowiness of this gnaws at the confidence in the reliability of those advices. So I would also like to ask the cabinet for a clear response to this point. Isn't the mistake that it is rather digitally opposed to each other: either it has to do with scarcity or it is a purely scientific judgment? While, of course, precisely if the risks are small in scientific terms, whether or not you prescribe masks also plays a role in the context of this scarcity. Didn't we just put up a huge smokescreen of words to hide the fact that it was just too digitally opposed at the time? That is the question that concerns us. Linked to the future: what about the preventive use of mouth caps in the six regions where the situation is now worrying? The Minister's letter states that it looks at the possibilities for this and what it does with supply and demand. The letter from Verenso tonight says: well, fortunately, we can already use these mouth caps more widely in e.g. care for the elderly. What's the deal with that, exactly? Finally. A second wave of infections, but, as the minister also says in his letter, fortunately not a second wave in intensive care. The question is how there is preparation. Are you sure the care's ready there? How many ic-beds with staff are finally available? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u68	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can we still be here? I asked that question to the Prime Minister during the General Reviews. The Prime Minister replied with a full yes. Older people who looked, could go to sleep with peace of mind: what a comfort, we can still be there. But we're less than a week away, and there's not much left of that reassurance. The number of infections is increasing, the cabinet closes test streets, a lockdown for nursing homes is not excluded, and there are still concerns about protective equipment and doubts as to whether enough flu shots are available. You'll only be a vulnerable elderly person and read that nursing homes and care workers have been compromised by this cabinet. The Minister repeatedly claimed that unprotected working in volatile contact was safe; scarcity played no role in the drafting of these guidelines. It is Russian roulette with human lives and the Minister has also misinformed the Chamber. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, these are mortal sins. How are you going to explain this policy to the family members who have lost a loved one, and to all those care workers who have become infected and still have to deal with the aftermath of corona? Imagine sitting in the nursing home watching that second wave coming at you. Do you still trust this cabinet? 50PLUS, like the CNV, wants the Cabinet to assume its responsibilities and at least create a fund to supplement the sickness benefit for health care workers who have become ill due to a lack of protective equipment. 50PLUS is still concerned about the number of protective equipment. During the first wave, the nursing homes and the home care organizations were in line at the back. The cabinet has ordered a lot of protective equipment, but are they also guaranteed when the second wave arrives and the whole world preys on those protective equipment again? Are there really enough protective equipment for the employees? Finally, our motion is being carried out to give care personnel priority in testing. Mr Rouvoet, the new chairman of the GGD's, said it could not be done. The GGD director of public health advocated it. In the meantime, a conversation has taken place, but what is the outcome? Are all the noses in the same direction now? We've been in the corona crisis for six months now. How on earth is it possible that there is still insufficient test capacity? All this time, we're asking for scaling up, and it's still not enough. In fact, the test capacity is a new mouth cap issue; the policy is based on a lack of it and not on what is really necessary. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The number of positively tested nursing home residents has more than doubled compared to last week. What is the state of preventive testing in the homes where contamination has been detected? The staff test streets are already overflowing. How can the virus be controlled if the care staff cannot be tested quickly? In line with the motion of 50PLUS, is the wastewater at all nursing homes tested in regions where the virus flares up? Are there any results? How far is ActiZ to check the ventilation systems in nursing homes? At the moment, three nursing homes are closed for visitors. How does the Minister guarantee that the elderly will not be without visitors again for a long time? If older people are still present, 50PLUS should still be able to count on support for his amendment which regulates visiting rights for all those nursing home residents. During the press conference, the Minister announced a curfew for cafés, where only 5% of the infections take place. 10% of the infections occur in the home situation and in the work situation. 10%, but there was very little attention to that. Mr President, I am about to finish. I have two more questions for the Minister. Can he guarantee that the flu shot is sufficiently available for all vulnerable people? Is there going to be a campaign for that? The group which, as far as we are concerned, is underappreciated and does not receive sufficient attention are the carers. Still, a lot of daily spending hasn't started. This threatens them to become overloaded. Do they receive priority attention? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u70	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u71	Mr. Chairman. When dealing with the corona crisis by Minister De Jonge, I have to remember my high school days. Everyone knows that, such a greedy boy who is always late, does not finish his homework, but does sell the most creative excuses to the teacher: the bridge was open, the tire was leaked, the dog ate the homework. And in this modern age, the Wi-Fi didn't work. Mr. Chairman. That's the image I get from Minister De Jonge's approach. Everything is in the way, the organisation of sufficient protective equipment is not possible, communication to the people is not effective and not fair, but Minister De Jonge always shakes a new excuse out of his sleeve. It's the G.D.D.'s' fault. The G.D.D.s don't have enough money. And if the test capacity isn't in order, it's because of too many "prettesters." Minister De Jonge doesn't change the policy until it gets stuck. Minister De Jonge is always behind the corona curve. The minister running from behind the facts, so strikingly portrayed Sunday by Lubach. In August, we advised the Minister to quickly make effective communication through the introduction of a clear system of colour alerts. But the minister didn't feel like introducing it a month and a half later. What's it gonna take? The GDPDs will all be available immediately, tomorrow, with a budget of millions, so that money is no longer an issue. Second. Better and fair communication to the population and press conferences at fixed times. Third. Initiating larger laboratories immediately. Why not in Germany? If the Minister is unable to do this, please let him go back to where he learned the excuses: education. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u72	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u73	Mr. Chairman. The unrest in society is increasing and the acceptance of large groups is disappearing. The cabinet comes up with new measures because the second wave, supposedly, begins. But with the knowledge of today, we know that the first wave was not as serious as the beginning of the e-power suggested. All fear parameters are now based on positive PCR tests, not on coronadods and not on the ic occupation, but on PCR tests, of which no one has been able to tell me what the total error margin is. Together with Mr Baudet, I tabled a motion asking for an independent investigation into the reliability of the PCR test. If the investigation could increase the support for the measures, why not just allow our VWS minister to carry out this investigation? Or is the validation already done? If so, would you like to share that validation with us? Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the measures are no longer proportionate. Whole sectors are going bankrupt. The Dutch business community hangs on the state infusion and the catering industry is hitting the bottle massively. The images of crying catering entrepreneurs are heartbreaking and the intimidation of the government through mayors and enforcers is really out of proportion. Wouldn't it be better to instruct the enforcers to show some understanding? The suffering is bad enough as it is. Mr. Chairman. People who have never been involved in politics are now interfering with the debate on corona. The entertainment industry is leading the resistance to regain our freedom, because politics is failing. These people are not conspiracy fools, as was just said, but just people looking at the statistics. They understand it very well: only together can we get control of the government and March 17th is soon approaching. Mr. Chairman. No one cares to show solidarity when it's really necessary. That's what we've all proven. But the cabinet no longer has a good basis for all these measures, so let's give people their freedom back. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week there were 13,000 new infections. The numbers are alarming and the corona virus has been back from never really gone. This afternoon it was announced that regular care in a hospital in Leiden will be scaled down again. We are at the beginning of the second wave. The Party for Animals wonders how the cabinet will tackle the second chapter of the crisis. Will it remain with last Friday's measures for the time being? What measures are envisaged if the number of infections continues to increase? When was that point reached for this cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Mass testing and tracking contacts means freedom. There is no doubt about the need to prevent a second lockdown. That is why it is so worrying that the cabinet is not in order on this very point. It is obvious that mistakes are made during a crisis. We also understand that the cabinet still has to make policies with limited knowledge, but there have been several reports in the past week which have quickly reduced confidence in cabinet policy. From June everyone could be tested, Minister De Jonge promised. By now, at least 10,000 people can't get a corona test a day. People have to spend ten days in home quarantine without knowing if they're infected. All this time, their lives and those of people in their immediate vicinity stand still. The cabinet rightly demands that people with complaints do not go outside and better respect that home quarantine. But this basic rule really runs counter to human nature. Then as a government, you really need to get a quick test and a quick rash so we can get back on with our lives. According to the Cabinet, not everyone can be tested because the infections are getting faster than expected, but how is this possible? How is it possible the cabinet didn't have a plan B? If we've learned anything, it's that the virus behaves unpredictablely. But there is a global shortage of test materials, the cabinet says. That does not explain why the Netherlands is doing much worse than European neighbouring countries. What can Denmark, Germany and Luxembourg do if we cannot? Digging journalists show that the cabinet has kept large test labs out of the door unnecessarily long. Was the cabinet not aware of the need to scale up these tests massively? Is that why the Netherlands is chasing the facts now? My final question on this subject. Will we be in a second lockdown soon because the government doesn't have the test policy in order? How is the cabinet going to explain that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Many have already spoken today about the mask directive on care for the elderly. It appears to be based on quicksand. Older people and care workers thought they were safe, but they were just misguided. The directive was not based entirely on safety, but also really on deficits. There is no scientific basis for this first directive at present. Has RIVM been carried away by politics in this respect? Or did the Cabinet put pressure on RIVM to write things down in such a way that they would be politically convenient? I'd like a response to that. As a blow to the flames, the directive was automatically amended at the end of August. Who ordered the directive to be amended? Then why wasn't that publicized? Mr President, my last but certainly no less important subject. If we have to believe Minister De Jonge, there's probably a vaccine in early 2021. The Minister presents a very uncertain future as a certainty. And that's not the first time. The cabinet shouldn't stare blind on a vaccine. There are a lot of things you can do to make society more resistant to viruses. One of these things is offered to the cabinet over and over again on a platter. Doctors, medical specialists and last week also the aldermen of three major cities call on the government to take the lead in combating obesity and diabetes, especially now that corona has increased the number of overweight people on ice. I would say that every day that there is no sugar tax is a day too late. We do not accept that and will be tabling a motion for that sugar tax in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u77	Mr President, thank you. Is the Netherlands ready for the second wave? We knew that wave would come, because that's what everyone was talking about. We see a cabinet running after the facts. All the way after those facts is Minister De Jonge. We remember his promise. We were supposed to develop an app over the weekend. That app was crucial in the source and contact research and the fight against the corona. We're still waiting for that app. Does anyone know what's going on with that? It was also reported triumphantly that we even brought in the sewer as a kind of early warning system. We could see what was going to happen. The conclusion is that the commitments made by the Minister regarding the test capacity have not been fulfilled. The maximum capacity is 28,000, while the Minister has promised 30,000. It would grow to 70,000. People have to wait a long time, hang on the phone for hours and travel a long way. People from the Utrecht region travel to Eindhoven or to Wageningen, if they can already find a place. Mr. Chairman. I read something disturbing on page 5 of the cabinet letter. That's what we're talking about here. Let me read it to you. It literally says: "There is currently a hard work on an integral rallying plan testing and tracing which gives a look at the required capacity at the GGD for the autumn." That plan should have been here by now. Autumn's already here. The wave's already here. What does that mean if we get the seasonal flu as well? In Germany and the US, measures are being taken to prevent the spread via air particles through good ventilation. When will this also be given a prominent place in the measures taken by this cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures in the hospitality business. Can they be justified? The OMT doesn't advise them. 5% of the infections are from the catering industry. Where does this reinforced measure lead to? Does this mean more illegal house parties? Or is it like a bartender said to his clients: I have to close two hours earlier, you can just come here two hours early to drink. And why are there no measures to promote homework, as there are twice as many infections at the office? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the nursing homes. Why aren't they being extra protected? Now we see that 10% of the infections take place there. Does this cabinet do enough to protect those most vulnerable people? Does it set the right priorities? We know by now that the scarcity of mouth caps has indeed contributed to taking risks, unacceptable risks; something the Minister has always denied here. That's just not fair and it's unclear. That leads to less support. If there is one thing that is consistent in this policy, then it is the ambiguity, the unrest and the fear that are being created. There is uncertainty about the approach to that dreaded second wave. We have said here on several occasions that communication is insufficient. I've filed a motion to hold regular meetings. That motion didn't make it. Mr Dijkhoff said that we should do it more often, but at least he rejected the motion at that time. Mr. Chairman. If the communication and the approach are not good, it doesn't help if you say to people out of frustration: just shut the fuck up! That's not good. The Prime Minister has corrected himself. We believe that the Prime Minister should be much more directing the crisis rather than the Minister, who simply isn't strong enough: too much promise and too little performance. And this is the same minister who wants to introduce a Corona Warfare Act, in which he can take all direction and power, without any form of democracy. I don't have to think about it! It is time for the cabinet to come up with a credible approach. DENK would appreciate the Prime Minister taking the lead in this crisis and not leaving it to the Minister of VWS alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u78	Thank you. Mr Pieter Heerma has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u79	Mr. Chairman. I see a society in which there is still a great deal of support for sensible behavior towards the coronavirus, so: keeping away, avoiding crowded places, washing your hands often, working at home when you can and certainly staying at home when you have complaints. If you see the reactions to the action 'I am no longer in the game', which I think Mr Asscher has described as a childish action, you will see that a lot of people are saying today: I do want to participate! They don't do that because the cabinet wants to, but because there's a dangerous virus that's not gone. At the same time, you also see ambiguity in many people. It's hard to hold on. But there is also uncertainty and despair. There are also parallels with previous debates this spring. I think the rising figures are not to be underestimated. For a lot of people, they're a wake-up call. You've seen companies scale down the personnel that need to be present in the last week. And staff are also advised to stay home. But Mr Jetten, as far as I am concerned, made reciprocity a little too direct. Whether people are willing to handle the virus wisely does not, in my opinion, depend on what the cabinet does. But there is some reciprocity. I'll be on the test policy in a minute, which everyone's been talking about. As far as I am concerned, it would be wise if a firmer line were chosen again, a firmer pattern of press conferences, OMT opinions and technical briefings. Because today's technical briefing also answers questions that people may have silently in their heads. Are they just kids? Is there a variant of the virus that is less severe? Mr Asscher spoke of a crisis structure. Mr Dijkhoff said: I am not talking about the way in which the cabinet meets. But I also see that there has to be more certainty in the direction that the fact that there is a second wave, at least in infections, gives reason not to think of "oh yes, there is a press conference on Friday night"; so that again has a tight structure. As far as testing policy and source and contact research are concerned, we simply have to note that the assessments made have been too optimistic, that the virus has returned rather than estimated, and that there should have been more capacity, given that that is the case. And we have always said to each other here in the spring: the core is that people keep to the rules, but also that you can stamp fires out in time. That means testing, tracking and isolating are crucial. And that means that that capacity just has to go up faster. That is why I ask the cabinet: how can you bet that this autumn it is not the minimum estimate of what is needed, but that the maximum scale you can do is the norm? 'Cause nobody's gonna be whining after all: you had created a little too much overcapacity. I also ask the cabinet whether, given the R which, I believe, is slightly lower than last week but well above 1, the measures that have now been declared according to the cabinet's estimate are sufficient to bring that R back under 1. And when it comes to the mouth caps: the letter we received this afternoon explains that the medical risk assessment has been a guiding factor in the opinion, and that scarcity has not played a role in this. At the same time, it is described that uncertainty about what "short contact" is and the scope for professional assessment have led to the final adaptation of that Directive in mid-August. I believe that the colleague of the Animal Party also asked: why has it not been made public when so many debates have taken place here in the Chamber? But also from the field of work it seems that there is always a question: what is this short contact; what about this professional assessment? I don't understand why if you take away the last part of that sentence, you won't communicate about it. And I would like to hear from the cabinet why that did not happen, because, when you talk about that support and reciprocity, this type of ambiguity is not helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u80	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenk has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u81	Yes, the last one, Mr. Chairman. I've asked other coalition partners to do the same. A letter came in from the CNV. There's an emergency fund, there's 10 million in it. That works well, the fund of Van Weyenberg and Asscher. I've been getting all kinds of apps. But the CNV says that it is insufficient, and the Cabinet must take full responsibility now that we know that all those people who worked there, in home care, in nursing homes, have been at risk. My question is: would the CDA be willing to let this cabinet guarantee itself, so that if that fund needs more money, it will also be available to all those care workers who need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u82	I am glad that you asked Mr Jetten the question first and only now to me; that is what you have with all the debates and all the motions. It is true that Mr Asscher and Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 have already tabled a motion on this subject. And I just happened to see that today it also came out that it was a success, and I am curious to hear the Minister's reply that the cabinet has already started to support it, and that it is working. So I have the impression that what has been said today from the union is happening, and that is implementation of the motion that has been tabled and adopted. At a time when this is not working enough in practice, although it is a success, we will have to look at it, but I do not expect that at the moment. Moreover, I saw more questions coming from the trade unions, including how to deal with corona as an occupational disease. That's also one that I think comes from CNV and NOW'91. And it is also a question in which I wonder what the government's answer to it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u83	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every society, every social organisation, constantly weighs between freedom and security. In all the issues that lie ahead, we must consider them. Freedom is important, as well as security, and you usually end up in the middle, but it is never the case that all freedom is sacrificed for all security or the other way around. One example is the more than 20,000 deaths and serious injuries in traffic in the Netherlands, and yet we still ride a bike and allow people to ride a scooter or a moped and so on, because we think that is an important freedom and because we do not want to take it away from people and we do not want to make it impossible for them to move because there is a risk. To mention another example: in the Netherlands, between ten and twenty people die every day in and around the house. People who fall down the stairs, people who slip, and yet we allow people to live in their own homes and be free in their own homes to do jobs and so on. Furthermore, thousands of people die every year in the Netherlands during the flu season; in the year 2018 they were even more than 10,000 killed by the flu. And yet we never set up a lockdown, a one-and-a-half-metre society or mouth caps for that. Then what's so special about corona that it's different from all the other risks we accept? And so I can mention dozens of other aspects that kill people every year. It is then a number of thousands of people every year. It's part of life. That's the way it is. Then what's so special about corona that we're in this situation? The answer is that we were put on the wrong track in the first place. In the beginning, six months ago, the images went over the world from mass graves and from bulging hospitals in Italy. Corona was then classified as "Corona" which is also evident from Parliamentary questions I asked in category A of infectious diseases, the same category as that of the Ebola virus, the most deadly virus we know, with a mortality rate of about 50%. Fortunately, we have now discovered that corona is much and much less dangerous. I was six months ago with that kind of threat of 50% mortality, of course for a lockdown, like everyone else, logical, but the mortality of corona is in the order of magnitude of a spicy flu virus. It's about 0.2%, that kind of numbers. So it does not fall at all into the category in which we had initially classified it. It also shows that the PCR test, the test to determine the number of infections, is dozens of percent inaccurate and gives far more results from people who have it than those who actually have it. So we measure by numbers of ascending infections that in many cases are not at all infections. In addition, these measures pay a social price that is not only about freedom but also about other intangible values, such as human lives and people seeing their lives collapse; there are lost years of life due to economic malaise, depression, addiction problems, domestic violence and so on. So there's a disproportion. The measures have been imposed on a virus that it does not appear to be. We therefore need to adapt these measures. We need to re-open the cultural sector, as well as the entertainment sector, the catering sector and businesses. People need to be able to get out of their homes. Moreover, all the measures we are taking now are completely inconsistent. Why do you get to sit on an airplane for eight hours next to someone but can't you meet in the air? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Waarom mag je wel naar een supermarkt maar niet mensen bij je thuis ontvangen?]] Why can't you go to the restaurants? Why can't you go back to the restaurants? Why do you get to see a prostitute, but you can't hug your own parents? There's no way to explain all these things. It's disproportionate. We've been put on the wrong track. Better half-way than completely lost! Give us back our freedom! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u85	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a half-hour suspension. Then I'll suspend the meeting for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u86	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u87	Mr. Chairman. I will immediately try to answer the questions about how to deal with the crisis in the cabinet and also about the rhythm on which various comments have been made in the Chamber, including in communication. Then, in general terms, I will say a number of things about communication related to the strategy. I will also address the specific measures and the questions on them and then I will answer a number of remaining questions. Then Hugo de Jonge will deal with three topics: testing, the BCO and the RIVM, the issue that played there. If you will allow me, I would like to start with a single introductory word, because I understand very well with many here that people have had enough of the corona virus and also of the measures taken from the cabinet, from the security regions and from individual organisations. I understand that, but look at the figures: 2,250 infections today, almost 13,500 in the last week. In the meantime, the number of positive tests has risen to over 6%. That was 3.9% a week ago. There are 450 people in a nursing ward in the hospital. This is an increase of almost 200 compared to last week. The source is the NICE site that probably many of you follow all day. And in intensive care there are now 99 patients. That's 35 more than last week. Mr President, let me finish this brief introduction. In the meantime, the movement of patients within the regions and above-regional has also begun. This is necessary to ensure that regular care continues as well as possible. We also see that several hospitals in the regions with the highest number of infections are now going to cohort care, i.e. to covidcohorts. Those are separate departments. This is now happening in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Haaglanden. This also leads to the first signals and there has also been contact with the inspector-general about the fact that regular care is again under enormous pressure. Of course, the goal is to reduce the scale of that regular care as much as possible. But only if we all put our hands on it in the Netherlands. That's behavior. In addition to the importance of testing, source and contact research, yes. But it is primarily our behaviour and the measures must be supportive in order to move that behavior in the right direction. That is certainly important now that the reproduction number is above 1 and is now 1.3. It's a fraction down compared to last week. But, yes, those are groups; it is still at 1.3. So regardless of whether people have had it or not, whether or not people have any doubts about the policy, whether or not people believe the RIVM, whether they believe the OMT, whether they believe the Cabinet, one thing is certain: if we do nothing with each other, if we say "let it go," then that leads to great, really great misery. I wanted to make that as an introductory remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u88	Short questions, just like we just agreed. First, Mr Baudet, then Mr Asscher, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Wilders and Mr Klaver. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u89	According to the Prime Minister, what's the corona mortality rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u90	That's low in itself, thank God. Only, the large numbers show that we are currently in a phase where planable care needs to be scaled down again. We know that many thousands of people have died. This is above normal mortality rates during the year. At the moment, these mortality rates are still low, but one of the biggest problems is that it is beginning to have a huge impact on the hospital sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u91	But I asked what the mortality rate is. So I'm talking about the percentage of people who get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u92	Low, like I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u93	Yeah, "low"...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u94	I don't have the number right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u95	You don't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u96	I don't have it right here, but it's low.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u97	Well, that's exactly what the discussion should be about. No one disputes that people are dying; people are also dying from the flu, from road accidents and so on. But we're making an assessment based on mortality. If that turns out to be much lower than before and if it's in the range of a normal flu virus, we're in the process of taking disproportionate measures. So I find it very shocking that you are not ready. It's 0.2%. A flu virus is at 0.16%. So we're talking about that order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u98	So Mr Baudet denies the enormous impact it has on our society. You see, like I said, it's just happening now, right? Does Mr Baudet agree that scheduled operations in hospitals should be postponed immediately? If it continues in this way, we will see an exponential growth in the number of people in intensive care. This has consequences for other people who need treatment. The risk is that we can do nothing but take tougher measures than we have already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u99	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u100	Mr Baudet cannot accept that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u101	Well, yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u102	I really don't understand that. One more sentence, Mr. Chairman. I have heard his speech, but I really disagree with it; this can be done in the respectful debate we are having here. I believe that the disruptive effect of the virus on society cannot be underestimated. This is now very evident in hospitalisations, regardless of the enormous impact this has on vulnerable groups in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u103	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u104	I'm fighting the infections that follow from the PCR tests, because they're very unreliable. Let's talk about the intensive care recordings. It's true that corona is a SARS virus. It acts on your lungs and has a different course of disease than a common flu. In some cases, people need to be on a ventilator. So you're gonna have to send for that. You have to ensure that you have sufficient capacity at that point and that you offer people, if they want, certain protection. But you cannot insist that it is justified by a 0.2% mortality virus, which is in the order of a common flu virus but a little bit more vicious, to take these measures for society, for 17,5 million people? That's totally disproportionate, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u105	We know that we have to multiply the number of people in intensive care by three to four to get the number of people in hospital beds, medium or lowcare. That puts enormous pressure on the hospitals. We are now seeing that the number of people infected, not only in the group of young people but also in the group of people over 60 and 70, is beginning to rise rapidly again. We know that there is an extra risk of icing or hospitalization. We are very concerned about that. This is an important difference with a flu virus or flu, as it may occur more frequently. This has a huge impact. This has an impact on healthcare workers and people who are told that knee surgery or other scheduled surgery cannot go on. I really believe that Mr Baudet greatly underestimates this interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u106	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher. Then Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Wilders and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u107	I really have a question for the Prime Minister. He's talking about the care workers, to whom we all have to make a terrible appeal again. Those care workers need to be heard and recognised. The question I would like to ask is: does the Prime Minister recognise that the amendment to the protection directive by August indeed means that those health care workers were right when they earlier asked for protective equipment when doing their work outside hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u108	Here, too, we do not agree. I would like to explain that. That has also come out today, not only in the RIVM statement last Saturday, but also in the letter sent to the Chamber by the Minister of Health this evening. The availability of protective equipment has not played a role, is stated in that letter, on the basis of all information from the RIVM, in the risk assessment and formulation of principles. What RIVM has done is to look very closely at the risk of volatile contact within 1.5 meters. From this it concluded that this was an acceptable risk and that in that case you did not have to put on an oral nose mask. Where RIVM made a mistake, Van Dissel also admitted this afternoon in the technical briefing in the House of Representatives, it is that, when that directive was amended on 17 August last, that adjustment was made, but the RIVM also says: it would have been better if we had made that clear. It is therefore not explicitly stated that the passage over volatile contact was deleted. It has been removed, but that has not been explicitly stated, and given all the discussion about it, it could have been better reported. But it is not what has been suggested here and there, and this is also evident from all these documents, that the stock of devices was decisive for medical advice. It was purely medical advice at the request of the target group. So those are the people outside the hospitals. The hospitals themselves decide what they do; they do not go to the RIVM. The RIVM has been asked here: can you do that? Then VWS mediated and said: we are going to organise the RIVM to deliver an opinion on this. And that advice is what it is, namely that it is not necessary in those situations of volatile contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u109	I didn't ask about the scarcity. My question was very precise. The fact is that since August 17th of this year RIVM has been saying that it is necessary to use personal protective equipment even in those volatile contacts, which means less than five minutes in a coughing, sick patient nearby. Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that that means that until then it wasn't safe, I'm not talking about the guilt question, then? It may not suddenly have become necessary on 17 August. Nothing's changed in the virus. It's about how people did their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u110	RIVM has expressed this in the annex which can be found in the Minister's letter. It clearly states that, in daily practice, the appropriate use directive proved unclear, due to differences in the hospital sector as well. They also say: in the hospital sector these things are of course different, because there is also the application of high flow oxygen and fluid and/or medications that are nebulized. That creates other risks, so it makes sense, they say, that hospitals had already said: in such cases you have to put on masks. There was uncertainty as to the difference between the directive on care for the elderly in the general sense, i.e. non-hospital care, and hospital care, which was adopted at the request of the sector, and which they aligned on 17 August. They do not say: it was unsafe. They only say: it is wise to leave that distinction out, because it leads to ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u111	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u112	Finally, yes. Third time I've asked the same question. It is a deep need of the people who have done that work for us, who have said to the government through their domes, themselves, to their employers, from the beginning: give us those protective equipment. Since August, RIVM says: it is necessary that you use it. The question I'm asking isn't what the reasons for that were, what the differences are with the hospital. I ask the Prime Minister for a simple recognition, which is important for the people who must be able to rely on us and on him. Does the Prime Minister recognise that if it is now deemed necessary, it was also necessary before 17 August?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u113	That would give the impression that RIVM would have come back to the opinion that it was not medically necessary. They didn't come back to that. They have just said that this leads to uncertainty and we are removing that ambiguity. We therefore delete the subcategory available for care in the care of the elderly with regard to casual contact. That's what they did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u114	I'm sorry, but what an awfully bad response from the Prime Minister. If it were really the case that the lack of clarity about the directive and the lack of clarity among health care professionals led to the amendment of that directive, then my question to the Prime Minister is: why wasn't that directive amended a week after that directive was published, because that ambiguity was widespread? We in the Chamber and health care workers have indicated from the very beginning that it was extremely unclear from the moment that that directive was published. What does that "volatile contact" mean? How can that be safe? So the question is: if that's really the reason, if the Prime Minister here maintains "it wasn't scarcity, it was unclear," why wasn't the directive amended when the carers reported massively that it was unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u115	The Ministry has no role here. It is RIVM that has received a demand from the sector. The hospital sector takes care of it itself. He said, "We're gonna use nose-and-mouth masks in situations like this." The RIVM also says in today's documents and in last Saturday's statement: there are special circumstances in volatile contact in hospitals, which we consider explainable. That has to do, as I just said, with the oxygen supply and with fluids and medications being nebulized. That is, they say, different in hospitals than in care for the elderly. In the care of the elderly, they have said, in those circumstances of volatile contact, that is not necessary. That then led to confusion, says RIVM. That's why they changed it on August 17th. They have done so and have also reported it to the sector, but they have not explicitly pointed out that this passage was also modified. They say that this is unfortunate; we should have indicated this explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u116	And if it were to be so that it was apparently not unsafe until 17 August under that directive, could the Prime Minister answer the question of what that is based on? Because this afternoon we asked the RIVM. It had no answer to the question of what medical and scientific research is the basis for this, but perhaps the Prime Minister has that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u117	RIVM bases its guidelines on the current knowledge of experts on the virus and the risk of infection in different operations in different situations, regardless of where they take place. The advice on the volatile contact is based on a medical-scientific risk assessment in which the duration and intensity of the contact play an important role. The risk of infection by volatile contact was assessed as very small on the basis of this risk assessment. That's how it came about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u118	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u119	This is what RIVM reports to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u120	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. But this is in no way an answer to the question, is it? I am simply asking very specifically: what medical and scientific research does that show? This afternoon, the RIVM didn't answer and tonight, the Prime Minister doesn't answer. Yeah, that it's based on estimates. I understand that, but the question is, what are they based on? And there's no answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u121	This is further developed in the letter, by the way. The answer I just gave is the answer that still stands. In addition, of course, this was done at the request of the sector. They have based themselves on the OMT opinions. On this basis, the RIVM clarifies and specializes the situation. They have done so on the basis of medical expertise and experience in the field of infection control, and from their independent position. This is not done by VWS, but is done by RIVM, so if you would like to have that underlying scientific report or the scientific basis, we could ask RIVM in the next progress letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u122	I really object to this. I think that's the central question. Everyone wonders why RIVM suddenly considers it necessary on 17 August. Again and again we ask: what is the concrete research that would show that it is safe and then show that it is safe? But the appearance here is that the investigation is simply not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u123	That is simply the LCI directive on which they base themselves, of course. On 17 August they said: listen, there is a lack of clarity between what is happening in the hospitals and what is happening in the nursing homes, and that is why we are deleting that special exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u124	Mr Wilders and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u125	Then let me try again. It's really shocking how the Prime Minister is trying to wear himself out of all the lies and cheating. We've seen... And again, Mr. Prime Minister, this affects the trust, not just of us and not just of the citizen, but this affects the trust of the care staff in you and in the RIVM. Forget state law for a second, but this is actually much more important than you fooling us. There are people who have gone to work every day and worked for months within 1.5 metres, close to people who are sick, people who had corona, patients, elderly people. They did their job without a mouth cap because their boss said: they don't have to, because RIVM says it's not necessary. Yeah, you can sit down, but those are serious people's questions. So, what's next? Now it turns out that that was a lie, that I quote the correspondence of the RIVM itself to Nieuwsuur "does have to do with scarcity of personal protective equipment'. It says literally, and also that after that, in mid-August, people were obliged to wear a mouth cap because of their health. Don't come up with all the RIVM reports and reading all the pieces that Hugo, Mr. De Jonge, just gave you, because there... Imagine if there's someone at home who's worked in care. He thinks: this Rutte has pissed me off, the RIVM and that De Jonge have fooled me; I've been working here for months, unprotected, and later it turned out that it was unsafe at once and I had to work with the same boss because RIVM thought so, with a mouth cap at once. These people feel, as I said in my first term, beeped. What is your message, in plain Dutch, to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u126	That what you're saying isn't true. RIVM has delivered its opinion on the basis of a medical assessment, not on the basis of scarcity. Then they said: if there is scarcity then it is also better not to use those mouth-nosed caps in such a situation. That led to the demand from the sector: can you use them if you wanted to? Yeah, says RIVM. That's early May. That's how it happened. So it just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u127	The Prime Minister's just not telling the truth here. He's not telling the truth here! Because if it says in the directive from mid-August that they have to wear it, and it says that they have to wear it within those 1.5 metres at least, then it may not be necessary at once for medical reasons, but it was not necessary for medical reasons. It can't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u128	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u129	Yeah? How is that possible? Before August it's said, you don't have to wear it for medical reasons. And in mid-August it's said you have to wear it for medical reasons. You can't straighten that out, can you? Well, there's a big fat lie in there, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u130	No. A question is asked from the sector: do you or do you not need such a mask in those situations of volatile contact? That is what RIVM is asked for, not by the hospitals, because they decide for themselves and they have said: we do use a mask in these situations. There's a lot of special stuff going on there. I have just mentioned a few times what special things that are in hospitals in casual contacts. VWS then mediates and the RIVM comes with that advice on the basis of a medical assessment. That says: medically assessed we come to the conclusion that in those situations that mask is not necessary. Step 2 is that the sector says: can't you use them? No, RIVM says that's not true; you can use them. That's early May. Then you see that there is a difference between hospitals and care for the elderly or non-hospital care. This leads them to say on 17 August: it is better not to use that subcategory for non-hospital care anymore and to drop it and align it with hospital care. That does not mean that they say: it has now suddenly become medically necessary everywhere in the last few months. No, that judgment stands, but it's just more practical to pull those things together at the time. Now there is one more point, namely that it is said that there is a confluence with scarcity. Yes, there is that coincidence, but that coincidence is after being determined by the RIVM that it is not medically necessary. Then it is said by the RIVM: hey, there is also a deficit, and if there is a deficit, we advise not to use it in those situations, because there is already a deficit. But that advice is not motivated by the shortage. The opinion is fully based, as you can see in all the documents sent this afternoon, on the medical judgement of the RIVM. That's the way it should be, because RIVM shouldn't judge on the basis of scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u131	No one in the Netherlands, no one working in health care, has understood what the Prime Minister has said in the last two minutes. He's talking about correcting parts of directives. He's talking about hospital care to nursing care. He's talking about first or not. No one in the Netherlands can tie one rope to this! But what everyone knows is that until August 17th, one was not obliged to wear such a mouth cover that was not even allowed or required to do so and that after August 17th, one had to do so. A lot of people don't understand that. Nor can you tell me that what was required after 17 August was unnecessary. You can come up with a whole goat breeze again with words of merging and equalizing. No one understands that. Those people have therefore allowed you to work for months in an unhealthy situation, in a dangerous situation, where there was also a shortage, which you did not mention. You've let those people down like hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u132	By repeating it over and over again, it's not true yet. Again, RIVM delivers its advice based on a medical judgment, and the medical judgment of RIVM was: in those situations it is not necessary. There was also scarcity. Then they said, "You better not use it either." That led to the question: can we use it if we wanted to? Yes, says the RIVM at the beginning of May, of course you can use it; it's not that we forbid it, but there's a shortage, so if you don't have to medically, it's also better if you don't. Then you can see that there was uncertainty in everyday practice because there was a different way of dealing with it in the hospital sector. They don't have RIVM advice. That's up to them. They don't call RIVM. They'll see for themselves what they need. There, by the way, it is something else in a situation of volatile contact, which I have just outlined, because in hospitals you still have a few special circumstances to deal with. On the basis of this uncertainty, the RIVM says, we are aligning it with the hospital sector. That doesn't mean it was unsafe before, it was medically assessed safe to work like that. That's what it says in all the pieces, and I understand that as well: RIVM doesn't look at scarcity in a medical judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u133	I have Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan and Mr Jetten, and then Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. No? Yeah? Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u134	"The Directive is not based on scarcity, but scarcity played a role in drafting." September 8, the mail exchange between Nieuwsuur and the RIVM. Can the Prime Minister indicate on what research it is based on that there is no medical need not to use personal protective equipment in volatile contact?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u135	This is what RIVM himself describes in the explanatory statement to the letter sent today by the Minister of Health, Hugo de Jonge. It states that RIVM draws up guidelines on the basis of medical-scientific risk assessments. They do that on the basis of a certain system. They have of course looked at exposure and transfer of SARS, (severe acute respiratory syndrome), coronavirus-2. They have assessed this on the basis of a number of factors. You can read that back on page 9 of the attachment of the letter. On this basis, RIVM concludes that it is not medically necessary. Then they say: if it is not necessary medically, the letter in the same letter under the heading "appropriate use' has then been established that where there is a shortage I only briefly summarize a mouth mask in that situation and setting is not necessary. That also has to do with the fact that if there's a shortage and it's not medically necessary, you shouldn't do it either. In the timeline, you can see that this leads to the question of whether it is allowed at all. That's not true, RIVM can't forbid anything. Any location director may decide to use masks. And that's confirmed by the RIVM in early May.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u136	Still, that's weird. Because in the hospitals, there was this rule, even in casual contact. But when we look at Germany, for example, we see that this rule also applies there, even when it comes to care for the elderly. In neighbouring countries there is no other example here in the Netherlands in hospital care where it is said that volatile contact is also dangerous, so there is a medical need to use it. And yet RIVM has advised otherwise. Do I understand correctly that the only reason why it was amended on 17 August was to align the guidelines for care in the hospital and for care outside? Is the lack of clarity the only reason why that happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u137	That is also clearly stated in the explanatory statement. Neither De Jonge, nor the Ministry of VWS, nor the Cabinet has any involvement in the drafting of such guidelines. The sector did not have to ask the RIVM; they could also have relied on other things. But, unlike the hospitals that had themselves decided that they would use masks in that situation, the non-hospital sectors actually said they wanted RIVM advice on this, in case of volatile contact. Well, there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u138	This is the point why I find it so hard to believe. Because if it was really just about aligning the protocols for care in hospitals with those outside hospitals, why does the protocol for care for the elderly still say that such personal protective equipment is not necessary if 1.5 metres away can be kept? That is not the case in hospitals, so it is not evened out there. If we want to try to avoid ambiguity, pull it all together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u139	That might be possible, but here was really unclear about the situation of volatile contact within 1.5 meters, so not if the 1.5 meters can be maintained. Mr Klaver said quite clearly: it could not be otherwise than that it was convenient on the basis of scarcity. Can I say something about that, because I think it is a rather intense remark. This presupposes that the RIVM would have said under pressure from the Ministry: it is convenient for us, because there is scarcity, so state medically that it is not necessary. But that's not how it works. The RIVM is truly an independent institution. Then you also damage the name and fame of the RIVM, and I don't think that's wise either. You can find everything from the advice, and it is also not convenient that Van Dissel also said that they did not explicitly say on 17 August that it is being changed. But I thought that was a strong remark from Mr Klaver in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u140	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u141	I would like to go into this later, but I would like to go back to the point I made, because the Prime Minister is agile about it again. I would point out that, if the only argument were to bring the directives into line, there would be still more differences in those directives, and they would not be levelled. I find that striking. Makes me suspicious. That is why I would like to know from the Prime Minister why these other points are not taken into account if we want to resolve the lack of clarity. If the Prime Minister does not give a clear answer to this question, therefore, this question is important to me, then the question remains, and in fact the assumption hangs over the market that it was indeed about scarcity rather than medical necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u142	Now you're gonna do it again. I find it really unwise, because it also damages the name of the RIVM. That a serious big party in the Chamber does that, I find quite a lot. It is not for the Ministry or the Cabinet to determine what those guidelines look like. That's what RIVM is about. In this case, this is what has been considered to be a lack of clarity in everyday practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u143	Mr. Jetten. Then I have Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mrs Van Brenn, Mr Heerma and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u144	In fact, I had hoped that we would begin with that other subject in the reply of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u145	That wasn't my idea, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u146	Now that we are in this debate, I am going to ask my question. In my opinion, a lot of people working in health care would like to know what that low risk of infection is in the case of this volatile contact. Can the Prime Minister give us more insight into this? How much risk is that in case of volatile contact?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u147	That's really for the professionals. This is described in detail on page 9 of the RIVM letter. But let's be careful here... Then I'm gonna read you all what's here, but they're all scientific texts. In this sense, this is somewhat similar, as we understand from the RIVM, to the situation in a BCO study. In addition, it appears that Mr. Jetten or Mr. Rutte is infected and that you were nearby, but because it was shorter than so many minutes et cetera, et cetera, you don't have to stay home. We understand it's similar to that. It is explained in great detail in the second-last paragraph of page 9. To read all that now with all those percentages... I am not a virologist or an epidemiologist, but I think RIVM is trying to explain what they have done scientifically here in language that we all understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u148	For me, there's a part of the crux. Because the Prime Minister has said a few times that RIVM is doing so on the basis of a medical assessment, based on scientific advice. That is why I referred in my first term to the WTO opinion of 6 April, which is actually very clear. In this, the WHO says: even in cases of scarcity, it is advisable to wear personal protective equipment in volatile contacts. So why did the RIVM not take into account the WTO's opinion of 6 April this year or not be decisive in the drafting of the directives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u149	I understand that RIVM does not need to follow all the WHO opinions. So they did put in the sub-category of the "volatile contact." They don't have to, but they did. At the request of the sector, this is a sub-category to determine: how do you deal with it? In doing so, they may deviate from what the WHO says, which in principle does not know that subcategory. The WHO actually says: if you come within 1.5 meters, you have to use caps for the whole group. But it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u150	I do not think it is the sector that made this sub-category of 'volatile contacts', but it was advised by the RIVM in that directive. If RIVM had said "in case of volatile contact also personal protective equipment" then of course the sector would have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u151	Sure. That's right, that's right. The question that arose: how do you deal with protective equipment in that situation? RIVM says what it says. Again: on page 9, one-after-last paragraph, is described in very detail on the basis of which they say so. The WHO does not know that subcategory. RIVM has every right to do so. It is not the case that they should do what the WHO says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u152	I feel that there is an important difference between the risk assessment and the final advice on the use. That this risk assessment is motivated by a scientific assessment: agree. But from the advice RIVM seems to indicate in the mail exchange with Nieuwsuur that they eventually said: don't use it. This must also be seen in the context of scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u153	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u154	Then it becomes a bit of a word game to say: the directive is not based on scarcity, but scarcity played a role in drafting it. Then we can all understand that this is very confusing and that all the long letters are not helpful to the care workers who are wondering what is happening. Then, after all, scarcity has led to the saying: do not use those mouth caps. While in situations where they had been widely available, you just said: okay, it's better to use them as a precaution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u155	So that's what you see at the top of page 10 of their letter. There they say: they are actually two separate moments. It has first been established that the use of foot-nose masks in that setting outside the hospital is not necessarily considered medical. That's their judgment. It has then been established that in this context it is also better not to, because there is scarcity. But that was after the medical judgment was established. The image that arose last week was that it was mixed up, scarcity and medical judgment, where "we came to the conclusion that." No, you don't have to do it medically. Then the RIVM said: then perhaps it is better not to, because there is scarcity. This, moreover, led to confusion in the sector. That is why the question came up at the beginning of May: can we not? RIVM said: "No, of course you can do that. We're not talking about that at all. We cannot forbid it, but we advise not to do it, because there is scarcity and it is not medically necessary."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u156	This means that the people who say that scarcity did indeed play a role in the final advice not to use it, are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u157	No. When the question "is it medically necessary?" was asked by the sector, the answer was: no. Period. That's all. Then the RIVM said: but there is also scarcity, so we may ask not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u158	Finally. But then it gets a bit of a word game. I think that the medical assessment of the exact risk will indeed be a concern for many people. It's about what's ultimately the advice. Is it now recommended to use or not to use? Apparently, this final opinion has taken the scientific risk assessment seriously into account, but also the scarcity, which has been said: don't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u159	That's the way it is. That's right. But with a Berlin wall between "medical judgment first" and "there is also scarcity." That's right. So it is described exactly at the top of page 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u160	Does the Prime Minister at this time say that the nursing homes themselves have asked for a directive and RIVM advice and that they could not have done so either? Is he saying that they actually asked for it and that they could have made other choices about the use of mouth caps? Is that what I hear the Prime Minister say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u161	Unlike in hospitals, in the non-hospital sector, RIVM is often asked to advise on these kinds of things. I don't think it happens that often in the hospital sector. I'll take a look at Minister De Jonge for that. Besides, they don't do this very often. That's why VWS also mediated and said: okay, then we're gonna organize that RIVM is watching that. This is also described in the Minister's letter this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u162	Then I find it very special that, on the basis of an opinion, for example the ROAZ and then the Rural Consortium Devices, nursing homes and care for the elderly were totally excluded from the distribution of these personal protective equipment. There were no mouth caps going there at all. It was really "the hospitals first." With the directive in hand, personal protective equipment was distributed and they did not go to care for the elderly and to nursing homes. The Labour Inspectorate normally inspects whether a work situation is safe on the basis of the law. I find it special that the Ministry of Social Affairs, through the whole cabinet, actually says: no, we are not going to enforce and inspect on the basis of the law anymore, but we are going to use that directive to see if it is safe. It is therefore a good thing that the nursing homes have apparently asked for this and that it is an advice, but on this basis the mouth masks and mouth nose masks have been divided and the Labour Inspectorate has therefore concluded that the work situation was safe, while many health care workers have become ill. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u163	I thought... Maybe De Jonge should come back to that. We need to find out exactly, because this is really history. In my opinion, the advice from the distribution of the masks towards the sector was not only within 1.5 metres. There was a shortage at all. That's when the hospitals and the ICUs were the priority. Of course, we've discussed that a lot here. You can say afterwards, "Was that wise?', But that's how it happened. I do not think this has anything to do with this opinion. No? No, I'm saying it right: that doesn't have anything to do with this advice. This was a broader issue that arose in the care of the elderly. In the event of a shortage of masks, the hospitals were given priority, but that is independent of this debate about what you do within 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u164	It is very strange that in the mail exchange with the RIVM that Nieuwsuur now controls, it is necessary to wear a mouth-nose mask and personal protective equipment during that short contact. I also find it very strange that RIVM says in its source and contact research: the close contacts are among others the contacts with which you have been in contact with a high risk for less than fifteen minutes, i.e. coughing and sneezing. Those were the people these care workers were in contact with. They're totally contradicting themselves when they say they still don't have to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u165	Once again, that is of course the risk if we try to approach it virologically. We've been asked for some advice here. That's given. That opinion comes to the conclusion: it is not medically necessary and in a context of scarcity it is better not to do so. I cannot entirely assess the last question, but I believe that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's interruption concerned the question of whether it was the only one that meant that the care of the elderly did not lead the way in the provision of the mouth caps. It was much wider. That had to do with the people who worked inside and outside the 1.5 meters. There was just a shortage of masks. At that time, due to the major problems in intensive care and hospitals, priority was given to these sectors. Because that's where the patients were visible at the same time. Later, of course, we saw what happened in the nursing homes. We've talked about that before. That should, of course, be part of the lessons we draw for the future. In such a situation, you need to look much earlier at how to achieve a proportional distribution between hospitals in the event of shortages. And you must, of course, try to avoid those deficits. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u166	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u167	We've seen the fireplaces in the nursing homes. We have also seen the inspection reports showing that hygiene in the nursing homes was not in order. Wouldn't it have been much wiser to give these nursing homes the necessary personal protective equipment? Because if hygiene isn't in order, then we all know how it goes with the infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u168	At that stage, we chose to have the limited stock track the patients. The patients were very visible in the hospitals. There were major problems, including with personal protective equipment. We all remember that. Later we found that at the same time there was a very serious problem in the care of the elderly, particularly in nursing homes. I think that it has been found here more often that it would have been better if you could have said: had these nursing homes also been reported earlier. But then you should have tried in that scarcity to distribute those resources as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u169	Good. No, Mrs Van Kooten, I am going to Mrs Van Brenn, Mr Heerma and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u170	I wonder when this Prime Minister is going to say "sorry" and apologize to the care staff and to all those people sitting at home looking at the tube. I got today's letter. The Prime Minister refers to that a lot. At the first bullet it says "it is essential that all employees in care can work safely" and it says a little further "we must unfortunately note that there has been confusion among the care staff." Who caused this confusion? I think this is a very terrible letter. How can this be the tone of this letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u171	The risk is we're shoving things off, and that's something I certainly don't want to do tonight. But the Ministry, or the Cabinet, has no further involvement in these kinds of guidelines. That's what makes RIVM. It also adapts the RIVM very regularly. That's what you see in the timeline. Changes are made very regularly. On 17 August, the RIVM decided to eliminate that difference from the non-hospital sectors to the hospital sectors because of the unclearness that threatens to exist. They also regret that this was not made clear at the time. But it's in there. That sentence has been deleted, but they could of course have emphasized it with the neon lamp or even say with a text mark "please note, this is a major change, because there has been a lot of discussion about this." I get that. But I have no reason to believe that that has happened maliciously. Why would RIVM do that maliciously? What's their interest in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u172	I believe that this Minister is ultimately responsible for the whole care and the safety of the staff, of all the people who work there. I will not read it all out, because we would be brief, but I have here an extract of Mr Bruins's statements on priority, of the responsibility of Mr Van Rijn and of what Mr De Jonge said about this. It says when all these people have said something about the scarcity and when they said it really was a different priority. Comments have been made on home care organisations, such as Mr De Blok's organisation, who did use and buy for all those people mouth caps and protective equipment. Comments were made at the time. Other sectors would prevail. I really think this is something that this Minister too should be blamed for. I do not understand why this is being pushed off and actually washed hands in innocence. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u173	I certainly wasn't innocence in terms of mistakes that were made. I think you should have said afterwards that we have often found here that there was a one-sided focus on hospitals in terms of scarcity and that at that time too you should have faced the major problems that occurred in general terms in non-hospital sectors, for example in nursing homes or in community care. Then it would still have been a very big problem, because of course there was a shortage. Then perhaps you would have decided to continue to prioritise as much as possible and to take emergency measures in other sectors because of the problems in the intensive care departments there. What we are discussing tonight is another matter. Tonight, the question is: has RIVM's advice on the use of foot-nose masks within 1.5 metres in case of volatile contact been obtained on the basis of scarcity? The answer to this is: no, that has not played a role in the risk assessment and the formulation of the principles. That's in the letter and in the annex. In my opinion, this was the subject of discussion on the occasion of the broadcast of Newsuur on Thursday and Friday, or on Friday and Saturday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u174	I'll make one last attempt. This room has been hammering on that all the time. If you look back on that now, knowing everything afterwards, wouldn't it make sense to start with at least saying to all those people who work in care and who depend on care: we did it wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u175	What I just said is what I think should have been considered differently in retrospect. That's what we've been through here a lot. In this scarcity, we should have seen earlier what was happening in the nursing home sector and in other non-hospital sectors. But having said that: that immediately brings with it a huge dilemma, namely that there was a shortage and a huge problem at that time in hospitals. We remember getting the recordings in the hospitals. We remember getting up in the ICU wards. But that is not the discussion we are having specifically on this issue. This is about the question of how that directive was drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u176	In my view, the Prime Minister is right to refer to all kinds of discussions that we had this spring, with approximately the whole Chamber speaking about aircraft coming from China. The scarcity had to be resolved quickly, but also the distribution models had to be improved. That is a different discussion, but it depends on what happened on 17 August and on what we are talking about today. I read the letter correctly, so I also read the phrase that it also applies to quickly giving something to help a patient or someone. That phrase was deleted on August 17th. That's the second part of the sentence that's been deleted. This happened after months of unclearness, discussions and questions about what "volatile" means. There was uncertainty about the professional ability to deviate from it if you don't feel safe and the question why it is at the hospital. The Prime Minister also refers to nebulized drugs or high-pressure oxygen. Why do you decide in a context in which the Chamber has always talked about scarcity and in which the sector has been asking for months why, on 17 August, to remove that sentence and not communicate about it? Then it's not surprising that a journalist who sees that then thinks: what is going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u177	Absolutely. Of course. I don't blame Nieuwsuur either. I understand. That was what Van Dissel said. He said, "I could hit myself in the head." It would have been better if we had reported that clearly. I don't have a motive for that. Nor do I have the impression that there is a malicious motive underneath that they did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u178	I do not wish to imply a malicious motive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u179	No, no, I'm not saying that either, but I can see why that's suspicious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u180	But if we go back to spring, it's a fact that we've been dealing with several times when in a TV show or a newspaper interview something was said that created an image that just lasted for a few days. This had to be taken away again in a debate, a letter, a press conference or a technical briefing. Something so big not to communicate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u181	That leads to suspicion. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u182	But in the future, how can this also be linked to Mr Asscher's speech, in my opinion, simply to prevent this kind of thing from happening in alertness and communication? We're definitely at the beginning of a second wave. Days of uncertainty and uncertainty, up to parliamentarians here saying they just don't believe it, shouldn't you want to avoid each other? I do not understand why this alertness about something that we have discussed here ten times is not there at such a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u183	Yes, very once. There's a lot of people working under pressure, so I get it. But it's not good. It leads to the mistrust that Mr Heerma rightly expresses. I very much appreciate that this afternoon was also recognised in the hearing. It is, of course, also for me, for us, reason to read the pieces even more clearly to see if there is an omission somewhere or if something is being changed. Something changes very often in the directives and this does not need to be indicated every time with neon lamps. But this was one thing you should have said: about volatile contact within that 1.5 meter has been a lot to do, so if you align that with the hospitals now, you have to make it very clear that you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u184	Finally, Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u185	What is going to change in the structure, in the pattern, to ensure that the alertness and the sharpness are there in the coming period, given that we are at the beginning of the second wave?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u186	I cannot answer that specifically in relation to the adaptation of directives at this time. I'd like to come back to that, perhaps. Or maybe you could say something about that, Hugo, if you're talking. Because this of course affects the relationship between VWS and RIVM very much. But I get it. Let's do it that way. Then we'll get back to it in this term. And I'm about to talk about the broader strategy. That is Mr Heerma's point we come to talk about. But this would be my response to this kind of very specific matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u187	And Hugo is the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u188	Excuse me, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u189	For my group, it is very important that the safety of care personnel should be at the forefront and that care personnel should be given the confidence that their safety has always been at the forefront this evening. The Prime Minister has already said a few things about this. What strikes me in the letters from the RIVM is that there is a reference to a report from the World Health Organisation in January this year. However, there are also reports from the World Health Organisation of April this year and from ECDC, the umbrella organisation of European RIVMs, which explicitly recommends that care personnel and cleaning staff should use protective equipment, including in volatile contact and even at distances greater than 1.5 metres. If we know that now, would it not be good to ask the RIVM why those opinions are not quoted in the letter? On what basis did they conclude that their previous directive did indeed maintain the safety of care staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u190	Yeah, sorry, I just don't know. That is a WHO directive. Then we're really in the RIVM itself. That's where we should put that question. We'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u191	I think that this is an important question that needs to be answered this evening or at least in the short term, because it makes clear why RIVM has reached certain conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u192	I'm gonna give it a shot tonight, or else as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u193	If that does not work tonight, my group would very much like to receive a letter in which RIVM makes it clear whether it has taken note of these opinions, why it has not followed them and what other scientific advice is the basis for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u194	In my opinion, the latter is all mentioned in the letter on page 9, in the one-after-last paragraph. Then there is the question of the link with the WHO. We're gonna try to check that out. We'll see if we can find out more about that tonight, or we'll answer in a letter. We're gonna check that out, but I don't think it's gonna work out tonight. It'll take a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u195	I see Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. I do not really want the same questions to be repeated again, because I think there has been a sufficient exchange of views. Very briefly, Mr Klaver and then Mrs Marijnissen, unless you have agreed. And then Mr Asscher. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u196	Certainly, Mr President, but this is very important. Because this is about the trust that carers in particular can have in the directives and in the cabinet. That trust is just at stake. The longer I hear the Prime Minister talking, the more that is at stake as far as I am concerned. Indeed, I would like a brief answer from the Prime Minister that the scarcity, the lack of protective means, has not played a role in the formulation of the principles, the directive, by the RIVM?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u197	That's what RIVM assures us, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u198	Then how does the Prime Minister explain that the RIVM Directive of 19 March literally states personal protection measures outside the hospital: because there is a shortage of mouth masks, is it important to go through the next steps? And step 3 says: if it is a matter of volatile contact, then there is no need for protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u199	Yeah, I don't know. If they've determined medically what's needed... By the way, this advice is from later, but if they have medically determined what is needed, they will naturally apply triage if there is a demand for mouth and nose masks. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u200	That does not make any sense at all, because the RIVM directive itself on 19 March states: "Because there is a shortage of mouth masks, no protective equipment." So why does the Prime Minister still insist here that this scarcity doesn't matter? Why isn't he just being honest about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u201	Just read the letter from RIVM, Mrs. Marijnissen. Why don't you trust them? Why are you so suspicious? I don't have any reason to believe they're cheating on us, do I? They say: "The use of mouth-nose masks was not necessarily considered medical in this setting outside the hospital." That's what they say. Then they say: "There is also a shortage, and then it is better not to do it in that context." That's literally what that letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u202	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u203	Mr. Chairman. I do not trust the RIVM, but the Prime Minister's answer is. The RIVM is clear. That is what our own directive says: there is a shortage of mouth masks, therefore no protective materials. It says very clearly in the mail exchange with Nieuwsuur: scarcity was indeed a reason. I do not trust RIVM at all, because they are very clear about that. But it looks like they've been flogged back by the cabinet. The Prime Minister is still telling the story here: no, scarcity doesn't matter. The RIVM confirms it itself!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u204	But then there is a misunderstanding, because I just said: scarcity does play a role, but after that it has been established that it was not medically necessary. Then the RIVM says: if it is not medically necessary, it is also better not to. That led to confusion in the sector. The sector then says: but is it not allowed to do so? Then the RIVM explains at the beginning of May: we cannot prohibit this at all; it is entirely up to the location directors to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u205	I would also like to comment on the question put by Mrs Dik-Faber. Look, the Prime Minister then refers to the letter from the RIVM, page 9 and page 10. And we still have to take a closer look at the further justification and the pages. Well, this letter came in at 5:30. We went to college on this. On page 14, which the Prime Minister also refers to, reference is made to all sources used for the investigation. And reference is made to the WHO interim guidance, under "Use of masks," January 2020. But is the Prime Minister aware that a guideline was published in April 2020, which is totally relevant to this issue? It recommends that you always wear those mouth masks. The same source of information indicates that the ECDC Technical report guidance actually advises the wrong investigation, or at least advises an investigation. But an investigation a little further shows that even people in cleaning in all these healthcare institutions should use protective equipment. Mr President, here is my point. Trust in government organisations is of the utmost importance. Damn it, this whole crisis has always defended those opinions by my colleagues and me, even here in the Chamber. But now there is doubt on the basis of what scientific insights they have come up with and the appearance is above this debate that this opinion on personal protective equipment has to do with scarcity. How does the Prime Minister explain that these investigations have not been quoted here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u206	But what motive is there? There was even scarcity at the time. I never understand, from Derrick's point of view, the motive why we would have wanted to cover that up, which Mr Klaver suggests a little bit. There was a question from the sector. There they said, do you have to use it in those cases? RIVM shows here that they came to the conclusion that it was not medically necessary. There was just a question from Mrs Dik-Faber on those WHO opinions. I say: we do not have it ready here, and we shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u207	I didn't start here tonight to screen for WHO investigations, that's what the Prime Minister did. I find the defence of the cabinet on this point, the defense of the Prime Minister, I see him getting annoyed, unconvincing. And that's where my problem is. It is precisely at this stage of the crisis that we must regain and maintain the confidence of the people. That means that if a mistake is made, an error of judgment or any mistake, please admit it. Then the sand is over, and then we'll get on with each other, but if the Prime Minister keeps getting stuck like that, he's gonna have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u208	No, I responded to a question from Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u209	No, you did it before. You constantly referred to a letter we received at half past six. And that refers to it, and also to the WHO opinions contained in it. I'll say there were other advices. And I'll tell you why I think this is such a serious political issue. I think it is quite right and justifiable, and I would have stood beside you to defend it this spring, if we were to say: there is scarcity; not everyone can get these resources, and some people in the care do not get it. That's a tough message, but we would have defended it with you. But if you pretend that there was no medical need to use them, and that used as a pretext not to hand out these masks... I have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u210	I was not irritated, but I am surprised that the leader of a large opposition party calls into question the words of the RIVM so much. The sentence is literally: "The use of mouth-nose masks was not necessarily considered medical in this setting outside the hospital." What Mr Klaver is actually saying is: I do not trust that sentence. But that's a sentence in a RIVM piece. So then we asked RIVM to write that sentence...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u211	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u212	He also refers to the WHO. I did not bring up the WTO myself, but it is a relevant question from Mrs Dik-Faber. There was also a question from Mr Jetten about the WHO which I tried to answer. In reply to Mrs Dik-Faber's question, let us ask the RIVM whether and, if so, to what extent the WTO opinions have helped in drawing up this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u213	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u214	The Prime Minister is talking about his own words, but now he's doing it for the fourth time. I would appreciate it if he would stop pretending to be me and the Chamber here trying to put RIVM in the wrong light. Holy shit! We have been defending the RIVM's advice throughout the whole crisis for a long time, even this spring when we had doubts about these opinions. All those care workers I talked to, I finally said: I don't know exactly, but yes, if RIVM recommends this then you have to trust it. That we are now rightly asking critical questions about how this can be done, that I do not understand, that I find the argument used unbelievable, that I say: let us not make a political game of it, do not blame this kind of thing on the opposition but just answer the legitimate questions that we are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u215	Okay, I'm gonna try again anyway. I also think that Mr Heerma and others said that Nieuwsuur is not to blame, where they say it is strange that that part of the opinion has now been merged with how to deal with it in hospitals and that it has not been explicitly reported. RIVM also says that this is unfortunate. But they also say, and that is the text we have received: in the reporting media, the relationship between scarcity and updating of the principles of foot-nose masks outside the hospital is explicitly established. That is not true, they say, with this an incorrect motivation is suggested for the adaptation of the principles and the medical-scientific advice of RIVM, the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, is unjustly under discussion. Those are literally their own lyrics. Then I ask again: what would be the motive of the cabinet to want it if you knew that there were scarcity and shortages everywhere at the time? Suppose they'd have advised that it was medically necessary, then you might still have had a problem there Mr. Klaver is right in... with too few mouth-nose masks. Then you should have done triage. Then you probably should have asked RIVM: you think you should, but there is a shortage; how do you deal with it? I was just saying, the mistake, I think, that we made was that at the time there was so much emphasis on patient following what happened in the hospitals, that we just didn't notice what happened in the nursing homes and outside the hospitals for a while. That's what we've been talking about here a few times, and that's what you're learning from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u216	The Prime Minister does a bit of absolve the whole discussion as a sort of administrative issue where a lack of clarity between hospitals and care outside hospitals is smoothed out, but that is not what this is about. It's about more than a lack of clarity. On the basis of that RIVM directive, people without protective equipment have worked and run risks and employers have denied their workers those resources, because there was scarcity and it was not necessary according to RIVM. So it's much more than an administrative ambiguity. In fact, the RIVM says on page 10: the reason for the adjustment was not only unclear but also problems that had arisen in practice. What would those problems have been? Those problems have been that people have worked without protection. What they want to hear from this cabinet is the recognition that if something is considered medically necessary on 17 August without anything changing about that medical practice, it was medically necessary for that. That recognition is lacking in the cabinet. My question to the Prime Minister is: acknowledge now that what is medically necessary, even before that adjustment, is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u217	But I can't trace that from the RIVM letter, can I? Where does Mr Asscher find out that it was no longer right for that? The RIVM doesn't say: we'll come back to our judgment before August 17th? That doesn't say anything, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u218	Yes, RIVM says it led to problems in practice. The RIVM came up with a directive...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u219	Yes, they are adapting the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u220	The Prime Minister makes it sound like these institutions said: how do we deal with casual contacts? That wasn't the question. The question was: there is a new virus; how can our people work safely? At that time, RIVM, by way of derogation from the international standard, created an exception for volatile contacts. The World Health Organization issued an opinion on 20 April to do so, even outside the 1.5 metres by the way. So we still don't live up to that. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control did the same. It wasn't taken over. But uncertainty arose and problems arose in practice. Those problems in practice, that is euphemistic language for people who were at risk in their work to care for others. And I'm not talking about malicious intentions, but I'm talking about the effects on people. And if you want to keep your trust in the phase of the crisis we are in, you have to acknowledge it. That is precisely what you should not hide behind an administrative ambiguity in the direction of those employees. No, people didn't have the protection they needed. And that's the question. It's the last time I ask that question, Mr. Chairman. Does the Prime Minister recognise that what has been considered medically necessary since 17 August, which was before that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u221	This piece doesn't show at all that RIVM is returning to its opinion that it wasn't medically necessary? That's not in any of the pieces, is it? They don't say "we were wrong" or "we misjudged" or "it wasn't right"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u222	Mr. Asscher, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u223	That's what they say, because in practice it turned out that "volatile" was not about giving a glass of water but about doing work for a coughing covid patient for up to five minutes. The whole assessment is based on the knowledge from source and contact research in ordinary families gained after that, but not on the risks involved. They did come back to it. It's just... it's not recognised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u224	But that is the normal work of the RIVM, which is always in the process of adapting its guidelines to the latest state of affairs? But with that, it is not true that the RIVM now says: with that our advice is no longer correct that we gave March/early April? It doesn't say that. I can't figure that out. No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u225	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u226	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u227	Mr Wilders
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u228	Finally, on this point. I'll tell the Prime Minister how I think it went. He doesn't even have to respond to that. And how it happened is like this. If you are within 1.5 meters of sick people, of old people with corona coughing and sneezing, then everyone knows RIVM or not that that is very unwise. I'm now at a certain distance from the microphone, at a distance of 10, 20, 30, 40 cm. No one, not a nurse, needs a directive to know that it is incredibly dangerous to be at that distance with someone who has corona and who sneezes or coughs. I don't need a RIVM directive for that. And they stand at that distance to feed people, to comb people's hairs. Because there was scarcity, those people, those heroes in care, didn't get that protection. At some point, the scarcity was over. And when the scarcity was over, it was said: well, do it anyway; give it to them anyway. That is what really happened. That is why the RIVM did not report it: because they secretly woke it out of that directive and did not tell it. And that's what's happened and what you're supposed to recognize in equestrian terms. For you cannot convince any caregiver that it was first and foremost good and medically wise. Again, everyone knows it makes you sick when you're 10 centimeters away from someone with corona that's gonna cough. 18,000 healthcare workers have become ill. And when there's enough protective equipment in one go, it has to be done at once. So stop using that technique about RIVM. You've just beeped people with huge consequences. And no one at home will believe you when you say it wasn't necessary at first and then they will. Everyone knows: being close to people who are sick, coughing and tasting; they should have worn a mouth cap right away. Those people deserve to wear a mask right away. And you didn't give them that because of scarcity. And you didn't tell me, and I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u229	No, that's not what happened. Suppose it said RIVM: in that situation it is necessary. And there's scarcity. Then comes the follow-up question to RIVM: where should we prioritize? That's how it would be. Then you have to apply triage. They have said in this case: it does not have to be here. But if it says it has to be. And there's scarcity. What has gone wrong at first, I have said that a few times; so those are also lessons we can draw from the crisis: from the end of March to the third, fourth week of April, at least in mid-April, there was a great deal of emphasis on hospitals, patient wards, intensive care and the need for mouth and nose masks there. But again, there's no motive for this. Because if that advice had come, we would have said, okay, there's a shortage. Then the follow-up question to RIVM is: "Can you advise us on where it is most necessary? Because we can't do it everywhere."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u230	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u231	Mr President, I come to three issues. First of all, how do we deal with the rhythm of decision-making? Maybe I can say a few things about it, for the sake of the length of the debate, now that it will be a little later. We, too, believe that it is a good idea to set a firmer pace in the decision-making process, where we are probably two-weekly on the basis of advice from the Outbreak Management Team, contact with the regions. It is very important that we have opted for a regional approach and a press conference to shape communication. We're going to fine-tune that very precisely. We had to do that last Friday, because we would actually work with the new system of regional integration for the first time this week. We have had to bring that forward because of the high levels of contamination. So that led to the situation that we gave a press conference on Friday. Then there is a fairly big gap between the OMT opinion, the press conference and the debate in the Chamber. I think it's better to bring that back together if it works. We're gonna take a very close look at that. Of course, from the scaling-up, there is now also the important consultation with the 25 security regions. But I very much agree with those who say: this is how you should do it. That might also be an answer to D66's question. The Roadmap was very much the scaling down of the measures taken. Unfortunately, there have been a few things on that road map since Friday. There stood still the feast halls and the dance venues. What you are about to get is a slightly different road map, where you need to identify exactly what the regional measures are with national support and what the measures taken by the security regions themselves are. We must work towards a package of regional measures with national support which is consistent for the outside world as well. These are the measures that apply to regions which have been scaled up at a specific level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u232	I shall go first to Mr Dijkhoff and then to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u233	I have a few more answers to this point. I can do them all first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u234	Then I'd do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u235	In this context, there was also the question of how the cabinet is tackling the second chapter of the crisis, to sum it up. That was a question from the Party for Animals and the CDA. When was that point reached? What measures are being taken? I told you, we choose: as much local as possible, nationwide where necessary. If you really wouldn't get out with the regions, you have the possibility to give a clue on the basis of the Public Health Act in the extreme. Last Friday, you saw that we used the lead to support the security regions, at their request. But you could also impose it in the extreme, even if we never want it to come to that, if it can be done at all. The scaling-up levels then serve as a tool to arrive at a kind of proportional package of measures. If that changes, it may be a reason to take tougher measures or to stop measures. Thus, regions can scale up and down the escalation ladder; you know the levels carefully, worryingly and seriously. In order to support the regions in taking appropriate measures to control the virus, work is being carried out on a toolbox containing all kinds of potential measures so that the regions can take certain types of measures in a similar way. These may include measures in the area of compliance with the basic rules, for example stricter and targeted enforcement or temporary closure of sites where contamination is present. These may be measures in the context of limiting the number of contact moments, in order to limit the transmission of the virus. Examples include limiting group formation, hospitality closure rules or introducing a reporting obligation for events. A third category is the protection of vulnerable groups and the reduction of their consequences. Think for example of shopping hours only for vulnerable people.......................................................................................................................................... And of course also think about limiting new introductions of COVID-19 itself. This could, for example, have to do with an entry ban on foreign means of transport. But, of course, you will come into the sphere of measures that need to be taken in close consultation with the Empire. Finally. Some references were made here and there to the structure in which we meet. I think that the structure we now have, the structure of the ministerial committee, is the right one. It is similar to the crisis we had with Syrian refugees in 2015/2016. Then we worked for a while in a crisis structure. Then we put it in a ministerial committee, because then you can work fully with all interests. Then, for example, you had to think about education, but also about the military, so all the things that are going on in such a refugee crisis. You can see that now. That includes all the services. The NCTV, the RIVM, everyone is present. But it works much more integrated. Then we try to tune the underlying official organisation as best as possible and scale it up or down according to the situation that arises. That's what we're doing right now. What really is a lesson from the enormous pressure that came at us very quickly in the last two weeks, is the enormous importance of them taking sufficient time to reflect. Just occasionally take two or three hours to look away from the agenda pressure in the longer term. In this way I would also like to respond to the many suggestions regarding a structure. We don't have to convince each other of the urgency. He's been here for weeks. But with that, I'll show you how much we're doing to tighten that structure even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u236	Good to hear there's another steady rhythm coming. In my opinion, then, everyone who cooperates with it will follow a fixed pattern and at least you will be wondering if it is the right time to communicate or do something. I also had a question about the intensification of public communication, because in the spring it was intense, but there was also a lot of free coming in besides what you had to do. Many companies were already working in their communication to make people aware that they had to stick to the corona measures and that we were in this boat together and had to get out. Now I see a poster hanging from time to time, but after a while they are also worn out. Maybe this time it should be without influencers, but we need to point out the urgency again. We should not just hang up the old posters again, but rethink what is needed now to penetrate and convince people, for example, to work at home alone. I was on my way here a little later today and it was more busy around noon than in rush hour in April. So there must be more to it than just our debates and press conferences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u237	Yes. Agreed. I agree with Dijkhoff on the issue of general communication. In addition, we have specific target groups communication, which Mr Dijkhoff probably sees less for good reasons, because he does not belong to the target group. I very much agree with him on this general communication and there is also the target group communication, young people and students. "That's what I'm doing" is an Amsterdam campaign to motivate young people to abide by the rules. That is a very good campaign, which we are also rolling out. Communication to employers is done together with Economic Affairs and Social Affairs. Vulnerable people are with the U.S. Department. We do people with a migration background together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. In addition to general communication, there is therefore also communication aimed at target groups. This includes mosques, women's organisations, self-help organisations and community centers. It is indeed very important to do so, in addition to general communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u238	Did you use that subject communication...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u239	Now I'm already in the next block: communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u240	Questions have been asked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u241	I've answered all the questions about communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u242	Okay, I'll go see Mr. Jetten. I thought you might have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u243	I will show Mr Dijkhoff in a moment the youth campaign that will still be on my phone. So it's nice that the cabinet is also intensifying that target group campaign. It is also nice that this crisis organisation is being strengthened again and that we are going back to that biweekly rhythm. That helps the predictability and tranquility of the entire corona file. The Prime Minister also said that we are actually working on a new road map. That toolbox that was also told about today during the technical briefing by the RIVM, we are filling in, so that you can have predictable measures ready for the three phases of alarming. We ask the Prime Minister whether this toolbox will be made transparent, so that everyone in the Netherlands knows at what stage possible measures can be taken. At what time does the cabinet intend to have this new roadmap ready? I understand, of course, that it is constantly evolving, but I think it will help if we get a first insight in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u244	We are a little more cautious about mentioning hard data, but the intention or aim is to underline: the goal is the second half of September. Of course, we have to, because we are now very busy working with the regions. If you look at the rising figures at the moment, you can see that where six regions had a problem, there are now about eight regions at the level of those six last Friday. So you could see later this week that there will be another eight. That's not entirely certain, but the risk is there right now. But we hope and work on the second half of September and yes, which is also constantly being developed and is of course available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u245	I think this is a very important commitment from the cabinet, because this is going to be very helpful in this reciprocity. We ask a lot of society, but if we can show that if we all do not follow the rules, the infections increase, then these are possible measures. I hope that will get people thinking at home, so that we don't have to take any further action, and I hope we don't need that toolbox as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u246	Agreed. That's exactly the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u247	Then I have Mr Asscher, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u248	Mr Jetten says it very nicely; that probably has to do with his age. But actually he says: this is not concrete enough. On Thursday, the Prime Minister says: we must prevent a second wave. Today we're in, and now he says, "We're going to work on a toolbox." I can't do that. I can't do that. The consequences are far too great. He should have been here by now. We have already said before the summer: there must be tailor-made work in the regions for what you are going to do at what limit value. There still isn't. I do want to hear from the Prime Minister what action he is going to take now, unless he really believes that the last round of deletion is about to come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u249	We're working on that. That has not just begun; we have been working on this for weeks. Only the question was: when is it publishable and can you show in conjunction what that looks like? Of course, you do this in close consultation with the security regions. That makes sense, too. Last Friday you saw a whole series of measures taken in the regions of Leiden and surroundings, Rotterdam, Haaglanden and Amsterdam. They are in the process of addressing the problems very specifically for their own target group and the situation there in the region. That eventually leads to that filled toolbox. You can also see in the progress letter sent by the cabinet how we are dealing with the three levels and what goes with them. We're all working on that. That's really not something we're just getting started on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u250	On September 12th, the Prime Minister said he didn't find it alarming. Here we are now, nine days later, and of course it is alarming. That is why the question is again. I know that in Leiden on a local level... But I also see great discussion between mayors. One says this, the other says that. I therefore call for this crisis structure to be put back into effect, so that there is uniform decision-making, uniform communication and clarity as to what is going to happen to prevent that second wave in extreme and a second lockdown. Because that's what's at stake. So "second half of September"... We're already in the second half of September. It should have been there by now. What measures is this Prime Minister going to take to prevent us from entering that second lockdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u251	As I just said, we do that together with the regions. We're looking very specifically at what's needed there. Of course, that is not something we all decide nationally. We're trying to coordinate that very specifically with them. You can assume that, as it now seems, this week the eight regions are also at the level where we sat with the six regions last Friday; that is what I fear when you see the figures developing. Then we are in close contact with those regions to fill the toolbox further. That's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u252	Then I'll go to Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u253	That is work that has been going on for weeks, so Mr Asscher really does not have to worry about that. The urgency is felt very much. There's no way we're too slow there. No way. I'm really putting that aside. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u254	I'm going to see Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u255	...just didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u256	I would like to repeat my question to the Prime Minister. Is the measure announced at the press conference, namely the closure of the catering industry, the measure that will prevent a second wave from coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u257	No, you can't say that. There was also a question as to whether this would reduce the case under the R. To get under the R, three things have to happen. The most important thing is our behavior. If we don't change our behavior together, you can take whatever measures you want, but that R doesn't come under 1. In addition, BCO and testing help. We're working really hard to make sure they're on level. Thirdly, there are, of course, the measures, but they are also mainly intended to influence behaviour. I will go into the measures for pubs in a moment. I can do it now, if you like, because that question is now also coming into the interruption. Of course, you don't stop the corona virus with an early closing time. You're not gonna do that with any single measure, I'm gonna say it again. It is always a combination of measures. I just said, that has to do with the behavior we all show. What you do see is that this hospitality measure is going to help because we know a number of things about what's happening specifically in the catering sector. First of all, these entrepreneurs are doing a terrible job, so no criticism of the catering entrepreneurs. At the moment, however, there are more and more infections that can be traced back to the catering industry. You see a triple of the percentage. What you can see is that the hospitality industry is unfortunately unable to do anything about it, but that is quite often the primary source of contamination. Whatever you see is that in the hospitality industry much larger clusters are found, with even outliers up to over 220 infections. If there is loud music, there is singing and one has to speak louder to understand one another, then the risk of contamination there is greatly increased in that sector. So when we looked at what you can do specifically for those six regions to reduce the situation, apart from the measure around 50, that is this measure in the hospitality sector. This has the additional effect in the student societies that also have a hospitality license, that if they close at 1:00 a.m., there is not until 5:00 p.m. to talk about hard music and all the risks of further contamination in those student locations. That's kind of a side effect of the hospitality measure. But no, that measure alone is not going to bring us under the R1.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u258	No misunderstanding, my group welcomes the proclamation of this measure, but the Prime Minister himself clearly states that it cannot be left here, that additional measures will have to be taken. He talked about the toolbox. That is what he is talking about with the regions. Last week there were six regions where intervention was needed. Now it's eight. There might be ten next week. We can't look into the future, but we all see that it's not going well and the virus is spreading at a very rapid rate. Can the Prime Minister imagine that my group feels that we are always following the facts? It is, of course, good if we talk to the regions. But does he also understand that I am also very impatient...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u259	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u260	...and that I feel like I'm chasing the facts? What can the Prime Minister say tonight to get rid of that feeling? What is he going to do in concrete terms to fill that toolbox and ensure that these security regions can start working on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u261	That is a real dilemma, as Mrs Dik-Faber rightly points out. Because if you take national measures, which we did in March, April, it will of course go much faster than when you do so in consultation with the regions. However, I think it is very important that we do so, because in this way you can very precisely tailor your measures to the situation there and avoid having to take measures in a region where there is little going on, which may also have economic consequences and so on. What we are doing now is trying to do that, and we are working very hard with the regions, in order to greatly increase the speed of decision-making, so that you can come to a common understanding with each other very quickly. I have great confidence in that, too, because all those regions, all those regional mayors, the presidents of the security regions, are aware of the importance of this happening. This is done in conjunction with the whole package of measures to bring together regions. That is not something we only do nationally; we do so together, because you also want to opt for measures that are as consistent as possible with what is needed in such a region. I do not think anyone here would want to go back to the situation where you decide everything nationally, with the risk of taking a measure that does not have a specific effect in the region where it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u262	Mrs Dik-Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u263	Finally. No, rather not national decision-making because we have also said that each region has its own characteristics. So I understand that very well, but I also see that the virus is spreading. When is the time for the Prime Minister to say: and now it is done, now we are going to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u264	That is of course something we constantly monitor, also in our discussions with the Outbreak Management Team. Then we will look at what additional measures are needed or not and where they are needed. That's a permanent process. If I look now at the rising figures, I am, of course, very concerned about that. There is a very good chance that we will have to take additional measures. That's a very big chance. But we are doing so in a structured process based on good advice and in close cooperation with the security regions. But I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that the rising figures you are seeing now give a very restless picture and a very restless feeling, especially when you see the effects on hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u265	You have to fix the roof when the sun shines. On August 12, we had a debate here with each other. Then the sun shone. At the time, the circumstances were much better. At that time there was also a great deal of emphasis on communication. I tabled two motions at the time. One was about a broad information campaign. Of that, Minister De Jonge said that it was not really necessary. He's been hired by the House of Commons. The second said: give a regular press conference, because people feel it's gone. People don't feel the urgency anymore. Widely shared. Now I hear the Prime Minister say: we need to give these press conferences more often, we need to provide better information and communication needs to be improved. I really get the feeling we're looking a cow in the ass. That cow is already over and now it's much harder to get it all back. When is the Prime Minister going to take the right action at the right time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u266	I am certainly not going to say that everything is flawless, not at all. On these specific points, however, I believe that we have already been working in this way. From the beginning of August there has been a press conference about every two weeks. What we have only decided is that we are going to put more structure into it, in the sense of: the Outbreak Management Team, the regions and the agreements we make with them, and the results of this in a press conference, all of which must be much tighter, especially now that we are dealing with these rising figures. But it's not like we haven't done press conferences in the last few weeks, because they've been around every other week since the beginning of August. That whole target group communication is currently running, focusing on the target groups as I have described them. So that's not new in itself. What we have just decided is that your Chamber is right to ask for much more coordination tonight, as we are working with the regions, and that you can move much faster from OMT advice to consultation with the regions and the press conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u267	Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u268	On the one hand, I understand the policies of these regions very well. However, I would like to go back to the approach towards the fireplaces in slaughterhouses, where regional work has already been carried out, which has caused a great deal of unrest. Because one region closed a slaughterhouse and the other did not, despite the fact that the infections at those slaughterhouses were almost the same. At one slaughterhouse it was more intense than at the other slaughterhouse. The first was not closed, which caused a great deal of unrest, because people did not understand why the one security region did something different than the other security region. At the moment when we continue with the regional approach, which I do understand, I think that is a lesson we should learn from. That unrest can indeed arise, as well as mayors who take other measures and people who simply do not understand that logic. So far, I do not have the feeling that that is enough. I am curious to see how we are going to roll out this approach nationwide in order to avoid this unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u269	I don't have any specific information on the slaughterhouses right now. But more generally, I try to learn lessons. I remember that time and I understand that you need to take a critical look at whether we left that too much at the time or not. I believe that good coordination was put in place to ensure that some similar measures were taken when, in my view, we saw those outbreaks in the slaughterhouses in May. Also Goes and Hillegom are of course well known cases, where clusters of infection in June/July were "stammelled out" by very precise application of customization. In any case, it's underlying the whole source and contact research that you need to do that. Where you talk about this is that in the case of the rapidly rising numbers, you have to find a combination of what the region can do, which is as specific as possible to the situation there, together with what we can do nationally to support those regions in it. This could be an indication, as in the case of the café decision, which makes these six regions feel supported by us in doing so. But it could also be a clue that applies nationwide. It's possible. All these options are there. There's only one thing that matters: that we beat that virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u270	Obviously. I'm sure those fireplaces will come around the corner one more time. There was a great deal of unrest about the fact that one security region did something different than the other. You then pretend that the virus in one region would be less bad than in the other, and of course we want to prevent that from happening. In such situations, it is very important that we have good national coordination, without allowing security regions and mayors to pursue their own policies, because then I really think we are going in the wrong direction. That's what I wanted to say again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u271	Coordination is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u272	My question is in fact a follow-up to Mrs Van Esch's question. I think it is very good that the Prime Minister here indicates that the structure is tightening up, that there is a fixed pattern and that decisions can be taken more quickly, which can be communicated more quickly. At the same time, in the debate on the lessons, we have noted that it is in itself sensible that policy should become regional, but also that there is a risk that communication, and thereby the message that the citizen receives, will become more diffuse. How is this new structure, which is getting tighter and more predictable, preventing a little bit of what happened last week from being told regionally after a technical briefing or a national press conference? In my opinion, that would create a gap for the citizen. So how do you ensure that this tighter structure is translated into better communication about those regions, in order to avoid precisely the confusion that Mrs Van Esch is asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u273	What we do not want to do is to tell nationwide what is happening in all these regions. There was also some criticism in the media. The daily newspaper and others have written about it today: you first have that press conference and then there is quite a difference in the way the different regions bring out their own packages. We also need to learn from that in order to make it tighter. The tricky thing is a little bit that I don't think you're gonna get the NOS or any other kind of lap along the line, along all those regions, and then say, okay, just tell me your story. Maybe we can; we'll take a look at that. A press conference could also be held by regional directors in the regional media. That's being sent on now, because I also found last Friday... That is not a reproach to the regions, because they have all tried to communicate properly. That's what we agreed on. They've been properly observed, too. But if you look back at what remains on the sieve, then that is a confused image. Inevitably, if you take specific measures in different regions, it will never be perfect in the sense of: why do they do this in Amsterdam and not in Breda? Okay, you keep that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u274	The Prime Minister is right to say that he does not want to leave it with the NIS or those regional leaders. No, it's in the cabinet eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u275	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u276	My question, therefore, is to prevent what happened on Friday from happening in that tighter pattern that you are making. Because I saw reports just before the debate that people in Amsterdam are moving meetings to Zaanstad, because the measures do not apply there. When you communicate nationwide about regional policy, you can say to people, "Don't do it." The urgency that once started with an "addressing the nation" should not run away in "the mayor of the municipality of X is about to explain what is happening there."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u277	I fully agree with Mr Heerma. I also do not deny that it is a function of the cabinet. At the same time, there is a dilemma. More regional work makes the issue much more complex in both coordination and communication. But Mr Heerma is right: that is the task we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u278	Finally, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u279	This is exactly the point I'm trying to make. I believe in this regional approach, because it prevents you from going nationwide where you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u280	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u281	But it falls or doesn't stand with it. That was already in the lessons learned that you'll make that communication even tighter. I do not know when we will hear that, because the cabinet is now going to shape the crisis organisation further. I would have liked to have explained in a subsequent letter of inquiry what that means for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u282	Yes. And hopefully we've shown it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u283	Even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u284	Even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u285	I'd like to give this Prime Minister a shot at the hospitality business anyway. I have also seen in the documents that there are more clusters and primary infections, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister where they are. The catering industry has had 15 million visits per week and 170 infections. So 170 out of 150 million. That is 170 too many, but that is not in proportion to the home situation, the working situation, the other situations. It's 5.6%, but of all the visits people make to the catering industry every week, it's 0,000... So many ten thousandths. Again, if there are clusters, in students or elsewhere, I understand that the Prime Minister has to do something. But this is shooting a mosquito at an elephant in the sense that you are now letting everyone, the whole sector, bleed for it, and I do not think the numbers give rise to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u286	It hurts in the sector. Mr Wilders is quite right about that. I realize that. It's kind of wider. It's about the hospitality license. So you're talking about the catering business. There's the problem of primary infections, but in addition, if clusters are found, you have huge outliers up to 220 infections. Those are much larger numbers than the normal bandwidth in case of home contamination. It also has an effect that works through, because hospitality permits are also about student societies and other institutions. You're gonna stop everyone from sitting on top of each other until 5:00. Fortunately, there are a lot of leaders in those circles who are already trying to prevent this and that is already happening, but well, it is happening. Of course, we also see the infections in dormitory houses and student societies. So it's en-and-and-and. So we have to work as much as we can at home. I am glad that Mr Wilders is making that point; I did the same with Hugo de Jonge on Friday. We said work at home as much as possible. That's besides "let's test if you have any complaints and then stay home until the results arrive" and "if you develop a fever, your roommates will stay at home; if you don't have a fever, your roommates can go ahead, but stay at home as much as possible and work at home as much as possible." That's true, but so is this. We've really looked at and-and-and-given the ascending infections. What are the behavioral recommendations? What can you do around that 50 measure? What can you do around the catering business? If you wouldn't do that, you'd really be losing an overly important instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u287	Interesting, but it's not an answer to my question. So, concretely, where in the hospitality business is that? Suppose you say we've all looked at it, including where the primary infections are, and that's in the dorm. I think that no one in the Netherlands will be opposed to you doing something concrete there. So again my question: where exactly is it in the catering industry? Because there are a lot of catering entrepreneurs who are now confronted with it being what it is; I don't even know if I'm gonna reproduce it properly at 0 a.m. to turn off the sound and at 1 a.m. to light, while nothing wrong is happening there. They are the victims of a very general measure. Again, we're talking about 15 million visits. Suppose it goes wrong with the students, do something about it, but don't take the whole hospitality business. So I repeat my question: where exactly are these clusters in the catering industry? That's got to be checkin' out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u288	Initially that was 2% of the clusters. In the meantime, it's up to 6%. In addition, we hear from the cities that it becomes more and more difficult to keep sufficient distance when we are in the café or in the pub. That's what I just said. I just mentioned the issue of primary infections. I mentioned that there are outliers up to 220. Anyway, 6% of the clusters are a matter of their own. It has thus become one of the larger sources of contamination in addition to the home situation and work. That's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u289	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u290	All these things you have to do, also in terms of home and work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u291	Mr President, you cannot say 'finally' if I do not get an answer to my question. Now it seems like I'm asking a new question, but I'm not asking a new question. For the third time, I ask the Prime Minister: where are these clusters? Please do not repeat the same answer. The chairman then says "Mr. Wilders, you have to finish," but I keep asking the same question: where are those clusters in the catering industry? You should be able to check that; the minister, whether RIVM, or the GGD, or anyone else should be able to check that. If we tackle the catering industry in the region or in the sector where these clusters are located, I support that, but I do not support your broad approach. So again the question: where are those clusters in the hospitality industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u292	Wide in the hospitality industry, it's tripled. That's just a fact. It's tripled in the catering industry wide. It's one of the most important contamination sites next to home and work. It is not a reproach to the catering industry, but it is a fact. It's not that weird, is it? Plus that two special circumstances arise, namely that when clusters occur, unfortunately there are a lot of infections, and that it is also very often the primary source of infections that occur elsewhere. I don't know what else to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u293	I'm just speaking Dutch, Mr. Rutte. For the fourth time, my question is: where in the hospitality...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u294	I do not think there will be another answer by repeating the question over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u295	I'll answer it. It was 2% and it's now between 4% and 6%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u296	I'm not asking if it's 2%. That's just an insult. I'm speaking on behalf of an opposition party, and you're just gonna send me in with a rug. I'm not asking how many percent it went. I'm asking, where are those clusters in the hospitality industry? You say: I do, because there are clusters; it went from 2% to 4% to 6%. I say that is not 6% all over the catering industry, because you are talking about clusters, sometimes even large clusters. Where are they? In which sector of catering? Because then we have to take measures there, not in general. So for the fifth time, where are these clusters in the hospitality industry? If you don't know, please tell me you're looking it up or you're coming with it, but don't repeat the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u297	I'd look into that, but it's not the only argument. That's why I'm saying that you should also see the problem in combination within the hospitality industry. It is the source of primary infections which then occur elsewhere. Of course, that also gives a distorted picture of those clusters. It's just that when clusters are found, it's often very big outliers. You have to see it in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u298	You guys aren't gonna agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u299	But I want to check this out for Mr Wilders, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u300	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u301	I'll see if I can find out a little bit more about that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u302	In the second term or in a letter. As long as I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u303	Otherwise, it's gonna be in a progress letter. We're not sending a separate letter. That's part of the deal, too. We are now trying to send up to one progress letter every two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u304	Good. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u305	I have a question about the reproduction number. Up to a certain point this was measured on the basis of the number of ICI occupancys. Suddenly that has changed. Now it's calculated based on the number of positive PCR tests. Now, we had a nice debate last time about the reliability of those PCR tests, but of course it also works through in that reproduction number. This morning Mr Van Dissel said that there is indeed a large margin of error in the PCR tests. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is also going through in that reproduction number, he just said that this was 1.3 or 1.4, and that we are therefore making huge decisions based on, probably, a wrong reproduction number?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u306	If you see that in a week the number of infections has increased by 60%, then you can't say that the reproduction number is completely wrong? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u307	No. Of course, that's the same story. The margin of error is in the PCR test. No, let me ask you another question. Do you think there are more false positives or more false negatives from the PCR tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u308	We had that discussion with each other at length during the General Reviews. We talked about that for ten minutes. Just look at the number of people infected. That has flown up with a huge percentage in a week. Look at the number of people in hospitals. That's doubled in a week. Can't you see that reproduction number isn't bullshit? Unfortunately. I wish. If that's below 1, the number of hospitalizations would of course go down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u309	That's exactly my point. We should not confuse absolute and relative numbers. If we go from one ic occupation to two ic occupations, that is an increase of 100%. Is that significant? No, of course not. That's exactly the point I'm trying to make here. There's a big margin of error in those PCR tests. There are far more false positives than false negatives. That makes sense with low prevalence. We didn't get out of that last time, but I think that's understood now. But the reproduction number is a direct derivative of that. If there's a mistake in that, of course, we're making wrong decisions, based on a wrong reproduction number. Of course, I agree with you that a 60% increase is a large percentage. But if that goes from a population of 17 million to 160%, it is still not significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u310	But the number of infections detected per day increases by 60% in a week. That's a huge percentage. That's exponential. Then you can see that the R-number really is a little over 1?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u311	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u312	I mean, I can even determine it as a layman. Then I'm guessing it's about 1.3, 1.4, 1.5. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u313	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u314	I continue to regret that the PCR test is apparently interpreted differently. Anyway, let me try to make a soft proposal. We do not agree on the PCR test, but even Mr Van Dissel said that there is quite a margin of error. He's gonna write another letter about all these different uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u315	That's what he promised at the hearing? Well, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u316	That's what he promised, so that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u317	Do we receive letters directly from Mr Van Dissel?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u318	Well, he promised to send it to everyone. Anyway, I'm making a soft suggestion. I hope we can get a little further on that. Can we not try to improve those PCR tests, where there is a large margin of error with regard to those false positive results, by, for example, testing twice or doing further clinical studies in the people who are tested positive? I'm not a doctor, either, but can't we get a lung photo, run a blood test or see if people have loss of smell and taste? If you add those clinical parameters, you might have a greater accuracy of that PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u319	I'm sure it's not all very precise and there are mistakes in it. Last time we had a statistical discussion. That's what the General Reviews were all about. I believe that Mr Van Haga made a statistical error there. But we don't have to repeat that now. I'm just looking at what's happening right now. I see the number of infected people rising enormously, to the 2,250 today, in no time. I see the number of people in hospitals doubles in a week. The number of people on the ic was still around 30 a few weeks ago and that is now over 90.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u320	You've said that a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u321	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u322	I'm sorry, Mr. Van Haga, but we have another minister who needs to answer questions. I would therefore suggest that the Prime Minister respond as soon as possible to the questions that have not yet been answered. Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u323	Okay, then let's leave it at that. We wait for that letter from Van Dissel and then we continue with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u324	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u325	Mr President, a few things. A lot of questions have been asked about the communication strategy, but I think I have now tried to answer them in all the interrupting debates. Then there are a few things that really remain. One: why not take measures to promote homework? That's our request to people. We also ask employers, and people in their own hands, to spread working hours as much as possible. We have also seen in recent months that people are flexible if they have to. This applies to offices, but also to education. You can't always work at home. We remember the workers from the period March-April. I am thinking, for example, of the public transport workers and the police, who could not work at home. But a lot of people can. Information is provided through the Arbo Portal to employees and managers on how to make homework as easy as possible. Mr Van Haga also asked a question about showing more understanding by enforcers. Most fines were imposed in the first phase of the crisis. I have said before that enforcers do not seek to impose fines. It hasn't happened much in the past week. At the moment, enforcers are speaking to people. Of course, they also take the circumstances into account in principle. In most cases, that's enough. Only when people really refuse to follow the directions will there be a fine. Then there was a question about the aerosols. The RIVM and the Outbreak Management Team also state that transmission of the coronavirus is mainly carried out by drip transmission. The role of aerosols in the transfer between humans is so far unclear. Recent research shows that it does not make a major contribution. In addition, it is unknown to what extent small drops and droplets that do not contain moisture are actually contagious. To date, it appears that the measures taken to prevent drip infections have been effective in curbing the spread. RIVM concludes that aerogenic transmission is very unlikely to play a major role and possibly only in specific situations. Reference was made to the American investigation. The CDC has retrieved the information regarding the aerogenic distribution that came online on Friday from the website. This was an accident. CNN post also: CDC abruptly removes guidance about airborne coronavirus transmission, says update "was posted in error." Finally. Where did #I don't come from anymore? That was the question from the corner of D66. The debate on the basis of public support is extremely important. That became clear last night by that hashtag #I don't do anything anymore, an action of a number of influencers. I suggest that criticism is fine. Asking questions is also fine; please even. But this is really irresponsible. Not because they criticize the government policy, but because they call for you to stop following the measures. That's really essential. They have many followers, many young people as well. So it's not good. The virus is real. The ascending infections are real. The measures really help to counter all of this. Fortunately, you can see that many other people, including vloggers, BNs and care workers, are now correcting and indicating that this is absolutely impossible. That might be even stronger than when Hugo the Young and I say it. I am extremely glad that a counter-movement has started immediately. The most important thing I get out of it is that we have to make sure that we communicate fairly, that when a mistake has been made, that we admit that we are trying to be clear and transparent, and that when facts are asked, we tell them. With this we talk from adult to adult and try to tell the Netherlands what is going on and what measures are included. So that's what we're gonna do. But this action is extremely unfortunate. Mr President, I think I have answered everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u326	Thank you. Then I'll suspend for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u327	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u328	Thank you, Mr President. I think that I am doing the many questions about testing in one block, in particular, in order to clarify that. After that, I have a few loose questions. Most questions about personal protective equipment and RIVM have just answered the Prime Minister. I have a few questions about this and there are a number of separate questions. So I'm gonna start with the block of tests and source and contact research. I see the concern expressed by many Members of your Chamber about the lack of testing capacity at the moment. We do not have the capacity to actually test anyone who has complaints. Maybe it's good to take a look at the numbers. Then I will be able to answer the questions of several Members in one go. At the moment, more than 38,000 tests are taken every day. Last week, there were 270,000. That's an impressive amount, especially if you compare it to spring. That's really a huge achievement of all those GGDs and all those lab staff that day in, day out of tests to take and analyze. And yet it's not enough. It's really not enough. When did we see the test question rise like this in particular? That was actually from the second week of August. Then the test question started to rise considerably. Actually, you could say that we're currently taking twice as many tests a week as in that second week of August. The rise from that moment on has gone very steep. Until the summer, actually up to and including a big end in the summer, the number of tests that were taken was very well within the capacity available at that time. I understand that the question is asked: why wasn't the capacity we need on the way to the autumn, actually ready as a kind of back-to-hand capacity? And also: why does it at least seem that we have been sitting very precisely on the estimate of 30,000 in the summer, then ascending to 70,000? I think it's good to say we never sent at a maximum of 30,000. No, we've grasped the possibilities there were. What we have seen, however, is that we have had to deal with a number of setbacks in relation to the intended capacity. First of all, this has simply to do with the supply of materials. They were much lower than what we were aiming for. They came later than what we were aiming for. This has nothing to do with the enormous pressure on the world market, particularly the larger suppliers who actually supply all the materials we have in the various laboratories. In addition, we had bet on pooling. That too came out lower and later than we expected. I will come back to the question of tendering which Mr Van der Staaij asks. In addition, we had to deal with a loss of production, a cut loss, which was much greater than we had previously estimated. So it has to do with the fact that we just had a few setbacks, which made us come out lower than we wanted. From the signal of mid-August, when the cut came into view, we started switching on those German labs. In the meantime, a Belgian laboratory has also been set up. Then the question is, couldn't you have done that much earlier? If you look back and see where we were in the spring and at the beginning of the summer, at that time, in that context, that was not a very likely option. That wasn't an option that was obvious at the time. At the same time, looking back from where we are now, we must of course say: if we had done it one or two months earlier, that would indeed have been lifted by now et cetera. But the context of that moment was that 15,000 people per day were tested within a capacity of 30,000. So in the context of that moment, that was not an obvious decision to make at the time. Mr. Chairman. Something else is going on, namely the call for tenders for pooling. Couldn't you have done that? The answer is: yes, you couldn't have done that tender either. But then, again in the context of that moment, it was likely to do so. If you don't do a tender, and you want to sign a contract, with such a competitive market, that's what it is, then you have to make sure of the argument you're using, which is urgent. Well, you'd say that's an urgent matter, right? But we had, again, just a lawsuit behind us. So we knew that providers were also on edge in this respect. And even then, you have to look back at the context of that moment, namely 15,000 tests that were taken and a capacity of 30,000, which was already standing... was that urgent interest not so very easy to argue. Here again, with retroactive effect, you would say: had we simply ignored the legal risks at the time, to actually proceed to the award of pooled contracts without invitation to tender. But then the result was very disappointing, because the expectation of pooling was about 25,000 tests a day and the reality turns out to be really much lower in the numbers that are possible to reach through pools. In short, if you look at the test landscape that we have built up by now, then I think we have just taken the step that was most logical from the context of that moment, that we have always turned on those laboratories that could deliver us the most at the shortest possible time. Of course, there is no brake behind it either, such as: don't do business, commercial laboratories or anything like that; there are a lot of commercial laboratories with which contracts have been concluded. And in Hindsight: what choices could you have made differently? Well, we couldn't have done that tender, for example. That would've saved us some time. And you could have started with those German high-volume laboratories earlier. That could have been, indeed; that could have been a choice. That wasn't likely at the time, in that context. By now you would say: well, if we had done that then, we could have moved on with the scaled-up capacity. Then the steps... Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u329	Well, I'd like you to finish the testing first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u330	Quite a lot of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u331	I have you on my list, Mr. Wilders, first. Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mrs Van Brenn. I don't know how far you're about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u332	It's a bunch of test questions, I guess. So to do them all first, maybe it's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u333	Well, then I'm going to see Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u334	What a huge herd of words that the Minister has been slinging into the Chamber for the last five minutes. All about the past. No rope to tie up. But the conclusion is that at the moment, and because of this minister's failure, we are in serious trouble. That we currently have 10,000 people a day who have complaints and cannot be tested. That currently 17 out of 25 GGDs have scaled down their contact and source research. That there is a second wave, which I do not think there is yet, contrary to what RIVM and Van Dissel say, that is likely to arrive, partly because of the failure of the cabinet. And the minister had seven months to get it in order. And you shouldn't spend hours talking or sending 100-page letters with what you should or shouldn't have done. You should have done it! You should have just made sure that there are no waiting lists, that people could have tested themselves, that the GGDs have enough people to do source and contact research! The Chamber has asked for it 700,000 times, so to speak, and you have not done so. Are you even able to practice your profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u335	Look, sufficient test capacity, man and power are working on that. And the complexity of testing means that, especially when so many questions are asked, this requires some explanation. We have built up this test capacity, which was very small at the time, from the outset up to more than 270,000 tests per week. That is not enough to test anyone who is currently applying for a test. But if you look at where we came from, there is now an impressive amount of laboratories connected. We did not have the starting point of other countries, namely very large, high volume laboratories, so we actually built it from existing laboratory capacity. More than 60 laboratories are now connected. Meanwhile, there is, where there was not in the past, a view of the central lab streams, and also a view of which machines are used where. We have done everything we can to spread risks, involving as many machines as possible from as many suppliers as possible. We then negotiated well in an extremely tight market. Indeed, we are at the moment where we stand, namely that it is not enough to be able to answer the question that is currently being asked by the test streets. We don't sit still there either. I was about to explain what we are going to do next to the future. This is how it will happen over and over again in the implementation of this crisis. Everyone's working their asses off. And yet you can't always live up to what you're hoping for, what you're counting on, what you're striving for, and what you're working on with man and power. That's how complex it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u336	You should have just taken care of it. You need to stop making excuses. We do not need a minister who comes up here every time in every debate with excuses and makes up something new every time like 'going into quarantine' until 1 November we will have rapid tests'. Every time you're in trouble, you pick the flight forward and come up with some news, while the facts are just that you don't have the case in order. You have been hired to ensure in the Netherlands that we have enough testing capacity, that the GGDs have enough staff, but that does not happen. You yourself, or the RIVM under your responsibility, have laid the bar for testing low. You have said: sneeze and cough alone, even without the flu and without the fever, you must be able to get tested. Again, everyone and also you should have known that around September/October there are a lot of people sneezing and coughing. That's the way it goes every year. So you don't have any excuses either. It doesn't happen to you like it did at the beginning of this year. You yourself have drawn up and adopted a directive that states, and it is almost impossible to reach the threshold: three coughs and you can call for a test. You should have known that. So don't come up with excuses like "we're doing this" or "we should have bought in." You should've done it. The consequences of not doing so are disastrous. Because with those 1,000 people who are now being tested late a day, no source and contact research can take place, if it is already taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u337	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u338	So these people are infecting other people again. That's dangerous. Your failure is very dangerous. So I repeat my question. Isn't it time for you to look in the mirror and think, Hugo, can I still handle this or should someone else do it? That's not to bully you, but that's in the national interest. We can't have a minister making a pot of it at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u339	Well, thank you for your condolences, I say in the direction of Mr Wilders through you, Mr President. Let me just look at where we stand right now and what we've done before. We have now connected more than 60 laboratories to the national test capacity. There are more than 270,000 tests carried out a day. Mr Wilders talked about whether we set the bar too low. No, we have chosen very consciously that we have, I think, also done with each other for a test strategy in which anyone with complaints can be tested, must be tested. Prior to the decision you make at such a time, you're going to look very carefully at how much that might actually be. So you're having an assessment made. That was in the summer months 30,000 and towards December it would be 70,000 and towards February 85,000. Next, you're gonna check if we're gonna be able to get that capacity settled by the time it's needed. The assessment was: yes, that should work. In the beginning, of course, we didn't know how many people would come. That 30,000 was an estimate, but it was an estimate that had never been made before. So we weren't sure about the 30,000. We've been counting on it to be 30,000. We've set up the capacity to get that 30,000. In a way, it's a very exciting choice to actually make the step to test everyone. Could we have done it differently? Yes, you could have done all kinds of execution tests to check everything very carefully, for example whether the supply was actually arranged for a period of months. But that time is missing. I should have said to your Chamber: I hear your wish to have everyone tested with complaints, but it's just going to take months before I can organize that capacity. I would have been less at risk of where we are right now. I would have been less at risk of having to justify it at any time that the capacity is lower than the question of whether it is actually higher than the capacity, because in itself, despite all these setbacks, it is still on the path. Only, you don't have that time. So you can't be quite sure in advance that you will actually be able to live up to the capacity you need up to the length of months. So you have to take a step. And that was also the case on April 6th, when we first tested the care workers. That was also the case with all the following groups we have joined. It was on June 1st. If we could actually make it happen? We have been counting on it, we have worked very hard on it, we have worked hard on it, but at the moment we see that demand is increasing faster than capacity is increasing. That's one thing that's for sure. That is also why we have a lot more to do and also do to further scale up that capacity. I will go into that in a moment. That's our job. But this is the honest story. This is where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u340	Finally. We don't live in March anymore, we live in September. It's almost October. Once again, that you are being robbed at the beginning, I understand part of that. Once again, I think that it is not you personally that the cabinet should have been better prepared for it; I have a lot of complaints about it, but I understand some of that. But after seven months, Mr. Minister, we, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, need a minister who can no longer be overwhelmed by such essential things as testing and source and contact research. It can't be! Our neighbouring countries, for example, Germany, have this in order. They took care of that. They have sufficient hospitals, have sufficient ic capacity, have sufficient test capacity, have sufficient tracking and tracing. And we have all said here in the Chamber, all the groups have said: look at America, look at Germany, hire students, pay them a good salary, do all of that! And none of that has happened. And you must also understand: this is not a personal attack on the person Hugo de Jonge, but this is an attack on a minister who turns out not to be capable of exercising his profession. You are more a threat to public health than a minister who helps public health. Because you're making sure we can't test enough, and you're making sure we can't do any source and contact research, especially at a time when it's more necessary than ever. 10,000 a day. That's not 30, 40 or 50. You can't do that! And you must have some kind of self-reflection, too, don't you? Let me finish with that. You must have something of self-reflection and say: here I just screwed up, I set the bar low myself, I didn't buy enough, I didn't hire the good laboratories myself, I didn't hire enough people in time for source and contact research or helped the GGDs with that; I failed here. Why not that piece of self-reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u341	Good. Maybe it's good to move on to what we have to do to make sure that the number of tests we have is sorted out. I start by saying that we worked on the basis of a laboratory landscape as it used to be in the Netherlands. And if you make an international comparison, the Dutch laboratory landscape is indeed really different from the rest of the world. At the same time, you can see that there are shortages all over the world. In Germany too - even in Germany, I should like to say, even though Germany's starting position is perhaps the best in all of North-West Europe. But there too you can see that there are deficits. I recently had contact with the Prime Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia because we concluded a contract with a German laboratory. This has 18 million inhabitants and is very similar to the Netherlands. There are fewer tests there every week. To answer the question whether he should also make his laboratory capacity available for a Dutch contract, he checked how much we test per week. Those were 140,000 tests a week in North Rhine-Westphalia. In short, that is really significantly lower than what is currently being tested in the Netherlands. And at the same time, the starting position of Germany is just better. That's true. So what we have to do, on top of the laboratory landscape that we have, is to work on a high volume capacity. Well, honor that has been realized in the Netherlands, you are of course a few months further. So what we're doing is making big contracts with big foreign labs. That also has a number of drawbacks. That's just travel time. But it also has a number of advantages: it's a lot larger numbers that you couldn't actually achieve in any way, in those large proportions, through the Dutch laboratories. The second is that we are looking closely at the way in which we are currently steering the laboratory capacity. Mr Dijkhoff asked for that. Those more than 60 labs, there might be a little bit of that. Maybe we should reduce that a little bit. It's about letting the emergency flows, the emergency lab flows, especially in the region, but especially those lab streams that can best have to take a little longer than a day, to high-volume labs. That's what it takes to kill laboratory flows. For this we will have to create a solid position for the LCDK, the team that is currently coordinating, including with legal status, i.e. with legal personality. That means they're gonna be part of the U.S. Department. Where it is now a team, actually a network organization, they become part of the VWS team, so that we can actually strengthen the direction on that chain as a whole. This also applies to the National Coordination Structure Test capacity, in which the GGDs, the LCDK and also the RIVM play a role. That's a lot of actors in an already complex field. On this point, too, I believe that we need to achieve a strengthening of the coordination structure. We had planned to do that last summer, but then suddenly we had a few other jobs hanging on the cart. That is why it will have to be speeded up at the moment. In addition, hopefully that's going to bring us a lot of money. At the moment, we are doing everything we can to improve innovative testing methods. In April, we commissioned TNO to develop a new test together with some members of NVO-NCW, an LAMP test, a kind of simplified PCR test. It's actually a quick test, a quick run. It is currently being tested in practice. I hope that we will be able to deploy them on a large scale as early as November. I think that would be a very promising development. In addition, there is a series of antigen tests. There is a great deal of talk about this, including its probability in a number of situations. At the moment four or five are being tried out in practice. For the practical situation, about 100,000 of these were purchased per test variant. There are options to purchase them in large volumes as soon as it appears that the test is sufficiently useful in a given situation. We know it will always be less reliable than the PCR test, but in a number of settings that's okay. Then you could have a positive test result followed by a PCR test. We're working out the settings in which that's likely to happen right now. So they are actually being tried out in practice. As soon as possible, we want to bet it. In practice, however, I can see that there are many ideas about the situations in which it can be done and in which situations it cannot be done. The ideas on this change. I do not find it so easy to promise that it could be discussed earlier than in November. I won't wait a day longer than it takes to run those tests, because I think it's important for the total volume. Then I get to the total volume. Mr Jetten asked whether it was possible to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u342	But Mrs Marijnissen wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u343	I hear the Minister say that in the context of that moment it was not an obvious decision to take. I've had it worked on me three times, because what is the Minister saying here? That's what I want to ask him. He says here, in my opinion, that it is not the case that we now have a huge shortage of test capacity because there is simply scarcity, we have taken everything out of the closet and we have not succeeded. He simply says that it is policy and that it has been a conscious choice. Despite the fact that the whole Chamber has insisted on pulling everything out of the closet to increase the test capacity, the Minister did not do so. He says: it was not an obvious decision in that context. He didn't just cheat on the Chamber... Because he's always promised to pull everything out of the closet. It was said that we cannot break iron with hands; we are doing what we can. There was an understanding of that. But there is no understanding that it is now said that it was not an obvious decision in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u344	What I've been trying to explain is an answer to the question whether we've sent for up to 30,000 tests. 30,000 in the summer was the forecast of demand. That's what we sent? The answer to that question is no. We've sent it to have a much larger capacity up our sleeve. This had to do with supplies of materials, for example. They came later and fell out lower. That had to do with the pool, for example. It came about later and what you could expect of it was lower. With regard to supplies of materials, it saves about 5,000 tests a day. As far as the pool is concerned, it saves about 25,000 tests a day. In addition, the loss of production was much higher than we had assumed until then. In short, everything we had prepared should have led to a much higher capacity than we had at the time. I'm talking about context. The question could be put on the table, which is more or less the question that Mr Dijkhoff asked whether, if we look back, we could have done a number of things differently. Yeah, looking back though; looking back is always easier than looking forward. Think, for example, of the contracts with the German laboratories, which we concluded from mid-August. Could you have closed it from mid-July? Yes, on its own, that's conceivable. Could that have led to more capacity? On its own, that is conceivable. But the context of that moment in July was that at that time we had a capacity of 30,000 and on top of that an expectation. Pool tests, much higher deliveries from a number of suppliers, less loss of production. That was the context of that moment, while we had 15,000 tests of the standing capacity of 30,000. And so, at that time, no choice was made to contract those laboratories, although that option was on the table for a while, I understand. Would it have been possible if you looked back on it now? Yes. Whether it had previously led to more capacity, I don't know, but it could have. That is the honest answer to the question of whether we could have done things differently looking back. Well, this maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u345	Yes, an honest answer, but a very ugly answer. Because the context of July was that the Chamber called for everything to be done, to get the maximum out of the closet to increase that test capacity. And that simply didn't happen on purpose!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u346	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u347	You yourself say it didn't happen on purpose. You say yourself, "Would we have done this weeks ago? Yes, we could have done that, but it was not obvious in the context of that moment." But it was, Minister De Jonge, because the whole Chamber has asked for it and you have promised it here too! We were always under the impression that this minister is doing everything he can, everything in his power to expand that test capacity. That's why he's working day and night. And now this minister says: I could have done it a few weeks ago, but it was not obvious at that time. Minister De Jonge is putting a lot at risk with that. As far as I'm concerned, it's trust, because I believed him to take everything out of the closet to do that. But also just the health of thousands of people. That testing is the foundation of the Corona virus's approach. The incomes of a lot of people. If we lose sight of the virus, which is now at risk of happening or what may have already happened. While the Chamber Lord has repeatedly asked: pull the maximum out of the closet, do what you can to increase that test capacity. But that just didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u348	I think it is good to be very precise in what I have said about this. It didn't happen on purpose. What we have deliberately done is to strive for the maximum possible test capacity. Besides, we didn't send for that maximum of 30,000. We have just sent it in those summer months, where the forecast was 30,000 and the reality is not yet half, to have back-up capacity, with more materials, with a greater commitment to pooling. We had to deal with a number of setbacks, so the outcome is just lower, while demand is much higher. That is the reality of things. Then Mr Dijkhoff asks: would you have looked back, somewhere in that whole process could you have done a number of things differently? I do not think you would have found it credible either if I had said: no, we have done everything just perfectly. I don't think you would have believed that. I am therefore trying to answer honestly the question as to whether a number of things could have gone differently with retroactive effect. To that I say: yes, for example, those contracts that we entered into with German laboratories from mid-August. By the way, you can see that going up very slowly. Eventually they become very large volumes, but if you look at what it has brought us in the first week, then they are also clear volumes. We didn't try it at the time, but that could possibly have given us more capacity earlier. That's the honest answer. The same applies to an invitation to tender. In the context of that time, that was a logical choice to make. But you can also say: if you hadn't done the tender, you could have saved a few weeks in starting pooling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u349	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u350	The Minister needs a lot of words, but the mission of the Chamber was very clear: do everything you can. The Minister's promise was also very clear: I am doing everything I can. So it turns out today that that just didn't happen. Not everything that could be done has been done, because those contracts with those other laboratories have been concluded far too late. They could have been closed earlier. I really do not understand what was not clear about this call that we have made here from the Chamber time and time again: do everything you can. That is what is purposeful: it has not been a result of scarcity, but it has been a result of a political choice, namely not to take the decision in the context of that moment to do as much as you could. I'm really, really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u351	I think I tried to explain honestly what the context of that moment was. The context of that moment was: a higher expectation that we might have of delivering different laboratories and different machines, and a higher expectation that we might have of pooling. That was the context of that moment. And there was a question that wasn't half the capacity that was already there at the time. To then opt for a foreign laboratory, where you know that the flow rates are declining because the distance is greater, was not obvious in the context of that moment. But I answer honestly the question as Mr Dijkhoff said: could you have taken a retrograde turn, if you look back, somewhere else? I think there are a lot of moments in this crisis where you could say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u352	What's the lesson from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u353	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat wij op alle mogelijke momenten alle reservecapaciteit die er eventueel te creëren zou zijn, ook al is die nog zo onwaarschijnlijk en soms ook nog zo onaantrekkelijk ...]] That we prepare for all scenarios. Let me give you a few more examples. Right now, we have a contract with Dubai under discussion. That's a pretty special turn. You could say Dubai is even further than Germany. That's right. It runs through an air bridge. In a normal situation, I wouldn't have signed that contract, because it does a lot with logistics, for example. In this situation, I say yes, we are going to do it anyway. When it comes to calculating a number of scenarios, I think we are now also in the context that you are indeed not quite sure how the question is going to develop. At any time in the crisis, the demand may be greater than the supply you can handle in the test street at that time. So you should also have the willingness to choose scenarios that you don't really want. I think that's part of it. Ordering priority: I'm not really in favour of that, because I want it to go quickly for everyone. I think the best way is to fight the crisis, because it's the fastest way to break through that chain of infectious diseases. However, I have also moved on to setting up priority for a limited number of target groups. In short, the lesson is: having the willingness to do things that you didn't really intend to do, because you know that the execution practice forces you to make those kinds of choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u354	Thank you for that. I think it's hard for the Minister to take that lesson now. This was the lesson we should have learned this spring. I find it really incomprehensible, and that is why I would like to mention it here in this debate, which did not take up this offer on 11 April when we received the first offer to expand. What is needed is to create immense overcapacity. Let me say again: this minister has our full support for buying up any test capacity. He was talking about a lesson he learned. My question is this. He has just answered the question about rapid tests, but he says: we are waiting for a self-developed test in November. What else is he doing to get rapid tests on the world market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u355	A few things. Let's start with the situation on April 11th. I don't know exactly what offer you're talking about. Of course, we've had lots of offers from many sides. If we then looked at what that might yield, then it was actually very often a laboratory that only had a few weeks of supplies and that offered "we can test, on a very large scale, perhaps a few hundred a day," which of course is not that much. It was then found that the stock was only sustainable for a few weeks. So that is not useful enough. We certainly looked at all the offers that came along at those kinds of times. Yet we have always chosen the fastest route to Rome. The fastest way to Rome was to connect the laboratories we had just validated. That's how we got to that 60 plus, of which you have to say now: that is a very varied and diverse landscape; can we not put a little more order into it? So that's what we're gonna do. There are two things about the rapid tests. One is the quick test that I thought we commissioned in April and is being developed by TNO. This is a simplified PCR based on reagents made in the Netherlands, so we are not dependent on the world market. That is the extent to which we have also anticipated. So we gave the order in April to do so. At the moment it is being tested in practice. It is extremely promising, we think, but also finds happy TNO and also finds some members of VNO-NCW. This is what we could do. Once it is available in the settings in which it also applies, for example the airport, for example a fast test street, a fast lane in one of the GGD regions, we could use it in that type of application. What we also do is simply buy the quick tests that are being developed off the shelf. The point is that what is promised in the leaflet is not always consistent with what is actually delivered. Moreover, it often calls for separate skilled personnel to be associated with a positive or negative test result. In short, we must test them well in the implementation practice. For the test we have already bought enough: about 100,000 per test. I believe we've turned off four or five tests right now. As soon as they are validated and available, and prove promising, we will immediately make the purchase. And we've already taken options on the things we've been testing in the implementation practice. So it's not a matter of waiting for us to develop something ourselves. It's also a matter of just buying from the shelf what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u356	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u357	I see a minister who's doing an incredible job, and I'm very grateful for the work he's doing. I also see how much work the G.D.D.s have done. If you see how we scaled up, that's pretty good. But in all honesty, it's not enough. Even when I hear the Minister talking about what is still in the pipeline, I say that it is not enough. Look, setting up quick tests or a fast-test line... If we zoom out and look at it a little bit bigger, we'll go to a test society. The vaccine isn't here for a while. The treatment method is not there. Testing is the only way to continue to function as a society. Several universities in the United States are already doing it. Yale has developed a rapid test called "SalivaDirect" which has been approved by the FDA. That's five bucks a test. We need that on a scale that's unprecedented. It's about hundreds of thousands of tests that we're going to have to take a day, and I don't see the beginning of scaling up to these kinds of scenarios. It's still about 70,000 or 100,000 a day. No, you have to go to maybe 300,000 or 400,000 tests a day. I do not yet see that this is being done. My urgent appeal is: away with Calvinism! Buy what you can buy! Dare to take risks there. The risk we're taking right now without all that being tested is far greater. Stop it! Buy what you can buy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u358	I think that's advice, say, that's not addressed to deaf ears. I could quote that movie: you had me at hello. Because that is what we are doing, but we must be sure that it has also been validated and that it is also reliable enough in the situation in which we want to use it. You also want to be able to derive something from a positive test result. If a test result has a very low reliability, it is more of a head or coin. Then a test results won't do you any good. So you must be able to derive something from a rash. This means that you can use some tests in a certain setting, because the risk is not that high and you can actually reduce the risk even further with a test. Well, I guess that test does help you, but sometimes it doesn't. So you have to, I think, do things in the right order, which is really first in practice to test how reliable it really is. Well, that's exactly what's happening now. So I don't think we could do this any faster than we are doing right now. But let me say the other way around: there is no time when we are doing a little slower than strictly necessary in terms of rapid tests in terms of innovative forms of testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u359	Mr. Klaver, you really made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u360	Yes, Mr President, I will conclude very briefly. Why I am so critical and the confidence in me is not complete on this point, is that we also received this response in the spring, also in June, also on 12 August, and there has been no action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u361	I don't quite agree with that. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u362	No, no. The microphone needs cleaning. I would like to look at Mr Dijkhoff, who has hardly interrupted, and then at Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u363	I thank the Minister for this reflection. I think back to March, April, when there was a cowboy market and we bought everything we could put our hands on. Then we sometimes spent money on masks that you can actually only use for carnival and not for medical professions. Nobody complained about that. Then we all hate that the money was gone, but it was better than not trying anything. I can imagine from other crises how it works that, at the moment it seems that the wind has gone down, you think: boys, can we bring that in with the care we are used to each other in a little normal way? But the problem is: it's not a crisis that stops and now comes up, it's one long crisis. If things don't work out the way they're supposed to, then things are gonna have to be the way they are, and in this crisis, things aren't gonna work out the way they're supposed to. So it has to be the way it is all the time. I'd like to go back to that "buy" mentality. Because if we wait until those quick tests are triple-checked, then maybe they're on or we need to get back on a waiting list. The moment we develop something that's better, maybe you can use the other one at the entrance of the stadium or I don't know what. Otherwise, I'm sure there are other countries that are interested in what we can pass on to them as help. When GroenLinks shouts "buy what you can buy," I say if we have anything left, we can give it as help. I therefore hope that this attitude will come back, particularly in the case of the rapid tests. I think we all say a pity here before when we buy things where a smart recruiter takes our money, then we have to wait and see how other countries use tests quickly and we don't yet. 'Cause we just don't have enough capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u364	Agreed. The shortest answer is that I agree with that. In those antigen tests, we have options for very large numbers. By the way, in the context of a cowboy and fighting market, we are currently also spending on tests that we would never do in a normal situation. The only thing you can ask yourself in Hindsight was whether that invitation to tender was necessary... Yes, that was necessary then, because we just had a trial going on about this, which is: do you offer all market players sufficient equal opportunities? Two. In the context of that time, for reasons of urgency, no call for tenders was difficult to argue from a legal point of view. We could still have done it, but we would indeed have run some more legal risks. Now we walk them all the time. In short, thank you for this encouragement. I actually see it the same way. We can better afford to make a purchase that turned out to be irresponsible afterwards than not to make a purchase that was even more irresponsible. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u365	Not to fail my own profession, but I get it if you have to say in a crisis: we could have tested more, but there were a lot of legal risks and we got a lot of official advice to do it carefully anyway. But by the time you were in court, the urgent interest had already manifested itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u366	Let's talk about the context. The context is that Denmark and Germany test five times as much as the Netherlands. The context is also that in the Netherlands three times more people per million people have died than in Germany and Denmark. In that context, it seems that it was chosen not to scale up. Ann Vossen, president of the Dutch Association for Medical Microbiology and member of the OMT, said on television: if we had scaled up five weeks ago, we wouldn't have had this problem right now. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u367	I can't repeat it that way. I think I just gave the reflection that suited that moment, namely that at that time we had a test capacity of 30,000. That means that at that time we were testing 15,000 people a day and that we were under the assumption, and I think we should have been, that on top of the sum of both delivering all the machines we had as well as the result of the pool as well as the loss of production we assumed at that time, we would also have behind-the-hand capacity on top of that 30,000. So in that context it is not illogical to say: the conclusion of a contract with a German laboratory, for example, is a good idea and we are going to do that, but we don't have to do it now. And also in the context of the effect that a German laboratory could have on lead times. In that context of that moment, that was the decision. At least, decision, that wasn't so bad: it was on the table for a while, but wasn't activated at the time. I explain that, but I can't say for sure, but well, it might have been possible that we would have had more capacity at the moment. But again, it could be. Dijkhoff's question was: if you had made a different decision at the time, would you have generated more capacity at the moment? Yeah, I could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u368	The context of that moment. Five weeks ago, we had called the Chamber back from recess, because the number of infections was already increasing. At that time, lessons had already been learned about spring, when we were robbed. By then, we had already seen how fast that doubling goes, how quickly your test capacity is flooded. Five weeks ago, all that was known a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u369	Four weeks ago, we signed those contracts with those German labs. That was, in my mind, mid-August. It's the middle of September now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u370	I hadn't asked a question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u371	Excuse me. I gave an explanation in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u372	I note that testing has completely stalled in a way that causes great damage; great damage to society, because it is disruptive, great damage perhaps in the future because we have lost sight of the virus. And the minister here says very nicely in the Chamber: it might have been possible earlier, but in the context of that moment that did not make sense. Why didn't that make sense if you want to go to Denmark, Germany, to maximum test capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u373	The context of that moment... Then I'm not talking about mid-August. Mid-August was exactly when we started working on contracts with those German laboratories and also with the Belgian laboratory, which was subsequently connected. When I talk about "the context of that moment," I'm talking about "before the summer." For the summer, early July, where we could have different expectations of the capacity that would be on top of that 30.0000. Other expectations we also had with regard to the loss of production that we had. We then had a test question that was not yet half the capacity that was already there at the time, while anyone with complaints was allowed to be tested. That was the context of that moment. Those were the first weeks of July. That's what I'm talking about. Next, I think it is good to also explain what choices we have made from the spring onwards. That was always the fastest way to switching laboratory capacity. That worked most quickly at that time with the laboratories that had now been validated by the RIVM. So we have come to a laboratory landscape of over 60 connected laboratories. That was always the step that offered us the fastest extra capacity. That's how we did it. I also think we need high-volume laboratories. We don't have one, not yet, in the Netherlands. Honour that there are, you'll be months away. That's why we emigrated abroad. That does indeed lead to.... but it really takes a while before that has been reduced... to high volumes. Using lab streams, we are going to regulate them in the most efficient way possible in the existing laboratory capacity. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u374	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u375	Last time at this point. We've been in this crisis for seven months. We have all experienced how quickly these duplications lead to a situation that is out of control. We see that happening again now. Before the summer we asked to learn all the lessons from how it went until that moment. Then the Prime Minister said, "Don't disturb the fire department while putting out the fire." The fire department wasn't putting out, but it went on vacation and thought at that moment: it's not that bad with that virus. We are now paying the price for both the fact that the GGDs were sent home instead of having them do source and contact research and for not scaling up at that time. My question to the Minister is: who do you think is going to be affected by this inadequate testing policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u376	I do not think it is a correct representation of all efforts and of working with man and power from both our department and the GGDs. I think that is not a correct representation, I say first of all in the direction of Mr Asscher. In addition, we are currently in the process of ensuring maximum capacity. There's no difference of opinion. I too believe that everyone should be tested as quickly as possible, that the lead times are far too high at the moment, and that it is far too often that it does not succeed, per day, in making an appointment. Mr De Gouw has mentioned a number that I cannot entirely check. If it has that size, it has had that size last week, then that is not good and we must put it in order as soon as possible. That's what we're doing. There is nothing to stop us from doing so: there is no budgetary brake. We're willing to do anything to further increase that test capacity. That's exactly what we're doing right now. We've been working on that in the past few months, at all times. So let's not create the image as if there hasn't been enough work on scaling up the test capacity. That's just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u377	Finally, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u378	I'm not saying there wasn't much work at all. I'm saying the right choices haven't been made. The Minister himself says: we could have scaled up sooner; we would not have had that problem now. I asked him, "Who pays the price?" Is that society, are those kids being sent home or people waiting for a test and in uncertainty, or is that possible for all of us? My final question is: who is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u379	I'm responsible. Everything that goes wrong in this crisis is my responsibility. Get used to it, because that's how it works. I am ultimately responsible for the approach, for the corona policy. This means that I am accessible to and responsible for anything that could possibly go wrong and will go wrong in the execution. I am also happy to answer for that, but I am happy to do so in a certain way, namely, by first indicating what choices have been made, and by doing so as honestly as possible with your Chamber at all those moments in the crisis. So I would like to add that this will not be the last moment I have to answer for and that you will say: but could you not have made another choice? I will always tell you why I made that choice in the context of that moment. I shall therefore give an honest reflection on whether it could have been otherwise. That's how I'd like to deal with your room, because I think it'll fit in with a crisis. You can't foresee everything. Afterwards it is often much easier to say what you could have done. But I would like to take full responsibility for all the choices we make, in the direction of Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u380	The uncomfortable thing about this part of the debate is that when people ask if the deficit had not been there when those choices were made, you can always say: I can't say that, I don't know. The Minister explained in the context of that time that sometimes applies: if in doubt do not catch up. But it is quite likely that if you had made up in doubt, if those German labs had been connected earlier and if the tender that Mr Van der Staaij had not done early, the deficits would at least have been smaller. I share what Mr Klaver just asked about the test society we are going to. Mr. Klaver mentioned Calvinist. Mr. Dijkhoff even started quoting CDA classics, with Jan de Koning. What the Chamber wants to hear here is that in doubt it will be overtaken, even when it comes to these rapid tests. This means that even in the event of doubt, even though there is a legal opinion containing a doubt or the idea is that we should do so because otherwise there may be a trial. I understand the Minister's statement that there are all kinds of considerations, but I think the Chamber wants to hear here that we are going to do it in case of doubt. In fact, the Chamber would prefer us to have overcapacity in the future or to say "we bought three tests, one turned out not to be entirely satisfactory, but the other two did" rather than to hear that we should have actually bought that second test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u381	In my view, there is no point in having to buy the items that may be needed. That's not the point. It is in which setting the test is practically usable and for which use the test is reliable enough. You're gonna have to test that in practice before you can use it on a large scale, but buying it doesn't have any restrictions on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u382	So that means that the 30,000 we have now was a starting point rather than an end point and that on the way to that test society, with the rapid testing and the further expansion of capacity, the approach remains that we are moving towards more. Even if things are disappointing, we are aiming for so much more, that is to say: on so many rapid tests and capacity and eventually on the test labs they have in Denmark and Germany, where they were probably structurally better prepared for the crisis and there is so much overshot that we do it in doubt. Then nobody here in the Chamber is going to say afterwards "we spent a little too much money on that one test," because we need to get to that test society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u383	That's right. So I'm gonna do the best I can. Sure. There is no restriction on buying what we would like. By the way, in the international comparison, a lot of countries are in this setting in the same way as the Netherlands at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u384	I have Mrs Van Brenn, Mrs Van Esch, Mr Jetten and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u385	I would like to know the following: is the policy on testing capacity now based on its lack and not on what is really necessary? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u386	The policy is: anyone with complaints can be tested. That's the policy. Next, it is also a policy to consider whether we can also have a number of groups that do not yet have complaints, but which may pose a risk, tested. That is also the policy. We've had a number of test settings of that. They have not proved to be feasible because of the test capacity that asked for it. Then we had to change that policy again. So you do have to adapt to reality from time to time. That's what we're gonna have to do. Would I like to test more in a number of settings? The answer to that is, of course, yes. Just, you're gonna have to keep adjusting your policies to what you can do. That's what the whole crisis will be like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u387	I would also like an answer on another point. The inspection was critical of the GMD tests, because a number of things also went wrong there. Can the Minister tell us what's going on over there? Are there any margin of error? It was said that half of them aren't going to be safe. How's that coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u388	The inspection report really has a slightly different color than Mrs Van Brenk's now summarizes. The inspection report is actually quite complimentary about what the GGDs have put out in no time. The inspection is also quite complimentary about the quality of the way in which testing is carried out there. The inspection has also given a very precise description of the testing. So I think, if we want to do justice to the report, that we need to say a little more than this short response. What's the situation now? Well, it's going really well for those who can go. But for those who can't go, it's not going well enough. So the wait is too long. I don't think that's to be counted on by the G.D.D. right now. That's just the laboratory capacity that the demand can't cope with. This means that this laboratory capacity needs to be further scaled up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u389	Mrs. Van Brenk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u390	I have one other question. You can see that a number of companies are now saying: I buy a number of commercial quick tests for my staff; that is cheaper than if they are longer sick at home. After all, in 15 minutes you will know what the state of affairs is. Is that desirable? How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u391	No, I don't think that's desirable. If it were a commercial test that would not be at the expense of the laboratory capacity actually intended for the GGDs, I would be fine with it. But that is often a test that is not sufficiently reliable, has not been validated et cetera. So when it comes to a test that is sufficiently validated to be used in a setting for the GGDs, I do not think it is desirable. This is at the expense of the capacity we actually need. We also experience a few times that a commercial party initially said to the GGD "you get 1,000 tests a day from me" and that suddenly it is said "yes, but I think it will succeed in delivering 600 or 700." So that's lab capacity that just turns out to be disappointing. That's happened quite frequently. Then you hear that same company is using that test commercially. Of course, it's hard to work together. At the same time, I can't forbid a commercial company to sell its stuff to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u392	Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Jetten and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u393	What I am missing in the reflection over the last few months is the fact that a promise has just been made, namely that from June everyone could be tested. I am particularly concerned that promises of this kind are being made and cannot be made afterwards. It makes society feel that something can be done, which may not be possible at all. This happened again in early September. Then it was indicated: hold on, people, but at the beginning of 2021 there is a vaccine. That is a promise that we do not know in any way whether we can deliver. I'm curious how you reflect on that. That kind of statement does make society feel that something can be done. People think about these tests: "Everyone can be tested from June onwards. Good. And from 2021 there's a vaccine. Good, then it's done." I miss that reflection. In my opinion, the Minister should really try not to make this kind of statement. I really want to warn you about that. You make promises that couldn't have been made until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u394	I think I have already given some answers on this point. For example, look at that date of June 1. We were very anxious to have everyone who had complaints tested. Why? Because we believe that's an effective way to control the virus. At that time I said that the aim was to test everyone by 1 June, and at least in June. "Aims are aimed at et cetera." This will be "the Minister promises as of 1 June et cetera" within no time, also here in the Chamber. Let's be honest. When I say "the aim is to do so," the second question is "can you guarantee that et cetera." It'll be a promise immediately. That's kind of how it works. That's how it works in the paper and that's how it works in the Chamber. We should be sober in that, too. As far as I am concerned, I have to make a number of comments about the uncertainty. I think, more in response to what Mr Jetten said about it, that you should also be honest about dilemmas you have. Take it as a priority test. You may want to, but you also know that it may be at the expense of someone else. I have a motion on priority for childcare, priority for education, priority for care and another sector. I would also like to give this priority, let me say, but you cannot all sit in the front seat of the car. I can't. To be honest, I think it is a good thing to make the point that, while you are striving for something, you must also succeed in keeping the arm to see if you can make it happen. We must also honestly outline the dilemmas. If there's a shortage to test everyone, then you're gonna have to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u395	That makes sense in itself, but that is not what lingers in society. I'm worried about that. Speaking of the vaccine. It does say: hang in there for a while, because at the beginning of 2021 there is a vaccine. That's a promise we can't make to people. There really is talk about a vaccine, but it really isn't going to happen at the beginning of 2021. If that is the way we speak and promises are made, then I think we should really be careful with that. This Minister must be careful, because we give people hope that we cannot offer. I think we really need to get rid of that. I think we should really look forward to that when it comes to testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u396	Take the vaccines. That's a good example. A vaccine that really works and is really safe: the sooner, the better of course. I think that's how everyone looks at it. What I have always said in the case of vaccines is that it is now expected that the first deliveries will come in the first months of 2021. Whether and for which target groups it is actually effective is not clear at the moment. But the first results from the testing phase of these different vaccines are promising. I think I should read out that whole package leaflet every time it comes to vaccines. I don't know if it's written down all the time, but I think it's fair to add that every time. I think that we should make these dilemmas clear to each other, including in implementation practice. The phrase "just rule it" or "just take care of it" is quickly spoken, but the reality is that the implementation practice is often very stubborn. We're gonna have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u397	I thought this was a bit of a complicated part of the debate. We have been discussing the context of the past and what should have been done better and you name it. I am glad that the Minister has also said in the end that we are working very hard, that it has not all gone well, that this should be done better and that we are working hard on it. It's half twelve now. We're in the second wave of this corona crisis. In fact, I would particularly like to look forward with the Minister at how we are going to do better in the coming weeks. Before all these interruptions started, he just got to the point where he wanted to explain why he has the confidence that we're going to make it to 70,000 in October. I'm very curious about that. I therefore have the question as to whether, between now and the 70,000, we can still make use of the overcapacity in Belgium, among other things, in order to reduce the temporary deficit that we still have in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u398	First of all, I would like to say exactly what I said about this. You asked about the middle of October, 70,000. I said, end of October, 70,000. I would also add, for the sake of clarity, repeating the whole package leaflet: to the insights of this moment. After all, we know how it can be disappointing with supplies and the speed of scaling up those big labs. I am therefore saying that all efforts should be made to ensure that, according to the current situation and so on, 70,000 should be feasible by the end of October. And I'm talking about total capacity, covid and non-covid. The whole scheme is worked out in the letter containing the forecasts. Yeah, we're gonna need foreign labs for that. At the moment I have connected two large German laboratories, in which one can really deliver a lot and the other a little less. Unfortunately, that's a little disappointing. I have also connected a large Belgian lab at the moment. I have a telephone appointment with my Belgian colleague tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. In fact, it is not the case that countries make excess capacity available. We simply conclude an individual contract with a provider who is in Belgium. And also in Belgium the way in which the test capacity is regulated and how much they have very much per region alternates. So it is not a kind of overcapacity that Belgium can make available to us. It's a contract I'm just signing with a Belgian provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u399	Then, of course, we hope that this will be successful and that we will be able to deploy that additional capacity in the short term towards that 70,000 in October. Until that moment of 70,000, of course, we are still facing a potential shortage given the number of people who want to be tested. The Chamber adopted a motion calling for priority to be given to childcare workers in addition to priority for care workers and staff in education. This is a relatively small group of employees who have a very large impact on social life. Because if such childcare is to be closed because of infected employees or unclearness about the contamination of those employees, parents cannot go to work and children miss part of their development. So my question to the Minister is at what point is he prepared to give priority to childcare, because that motion has not been implemented so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u400	I understand. I'd like to say, "Oh, we're gonna do that, of course." But when I look at how full those 43 fast lanes are that are currently set up on the first day, there are almost 7,000 appointments made. I have indicated, also in the letter to the Chamber in response to Mr Van Meenen's motion, that we are doing these priority streets as short as possible, because I simply want to return to two times 24 as a standard. So this is a very temporary situation. I'm going to evaluate in three weeks whether it's necessary that those priority streets remain. If so, I will include childcare and a number of other vital sectors. But right now I'm actually saying no; at least not for the next three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u401	Finally, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u402	That special fast lane for care workers and educators is only there for a few days. On the first day it was immediately overcrowded. I understand that, too, because many people in those sectors were glad that they finally had a separate phone number. To be honest, I find three weeks too far in time. I would ask the Minister just to take stock every week. Is this fast lane for education or care overcrowded or can we also open it to an additional target group? I say this in particular because the number of staff in childcare is really only a fraction of the number of staff in the healthcare and education sector who can now use that fast test number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u403	If I add it up, I think there are over 200,000 employees in child care. There's a lot of them. I also think that Mr Jetten himself has said that it is good to make the dilemmas known. This is unrelated to whether it is practically feasible to add childcare at all. It seems that at the moment it is not, but indeed, if you are a week further, things could go differently. But if we added childcare, what would you say to the police and to other vital sectors that would also have the right to speak? I find that difficult. That's a real dilemma. Why is it that one sector does and the other sector doesn't? I have tried to give priority as much restraint as possible, because I actually think that we should not do this at all. I'm gonna do it for as short a period as possible, and after those three weeks, I'm gonna evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u404	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u405	Yes, Chairman, finally. I welcome the fact that the Minister shares these dilemmas, because that also reflects the total complexity of the corona crisis. My very simple question is: don't do it in three weeks, but just check every week what the balance of those fast test streets is and if you can do more there. If the answer is no, we'd like to know why. But if we can, of course it's nice that we can do that until we're on the 70,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u406	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u407	This is a striking example, I think, of where sometimes it does not go very well in raising expectations. What if I said yes to Mr Jetten? This means that the childcare sector is expected to have its turn in a week's time. I'm trying to look a little ahead in time and I'm afraid that won't be the case. And that's why I say, no, I'm not going to; because if I did, I would create an expectation that I'm probably not going to live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u408	Mr. Chairman. I have heard the Minister correctly: he is going to open all registers to put the testing capacity in order. Of course, that's very good. I have also heard the honest story: in the coming weeks we will have to deal with a shortage of tests. Now the test policy, and the test policy, is really the pillar of the cabinet approach: testing, tracing, isolating; so we are going to fight the virus. But if we know that in the next few weeks it is at stake, that we do not yet have enough capacity, how does the Minister look at that dilemma? How are we supposed to handle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u409	Look, what we do and what we have to do is offer, so the test capacity, just maximize. There should be no brake on it, there is no brake on it either, so the capacity should be minimized. That's one thing. Two is, and this question has also been asked by Mr Dijkhoff: how could you scale up the research on sources and contact, and could you, for example, deal with the medical supervision required for this? 'Cause that's what you want, of course, to keep up. Well, you've read the letter from André Rouvoet, the chairman of GGD Nederland. It has also indicated: of course we are committed to maximizing our capacity, but of course there is a limit to that. By the way, the more capacity we have in terms of testing and tracing, the better it is, but eventually we don't keep that virus with testing and tracking underneath it. That helps a lot, and that actually has an inhibiting effect, and it helps to keep an eye on the spread. So that's why it's a hugely important pillar, and it still is. But in the end, of course, we keep that virus underneath by just making sure that no people get infected, and by sticking to the measures. That's actually the brake on the virus, of course. So: yes, we will have to scale up to the maximum; that is absolutely necessary. And with that, it is certainly not a less important pillar of policy, quite the contrary. But it takes more than just testing and tracing to keep the virus underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u410	And with this you have also answered the questions about source and contact research? Yeah? Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u411	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. My group considers this to be a genuine dilemma. We don't have it in order for the next few weeks. We'll work on it to the maximum. I also see the Minister is doing that. Let me translate that dilemma into the kitchen table. Heard this today. Daughter reporting with covid-like complaints. Daddy, in this case, calls me: I want my daughter tested. She can go to Zierikzee in a few days, 100 kilometers away. Well, do I have to do that; do I have to wait a few days, then get in the car, drive to 100 kilometers away? I find that difficult. What am I supposed to say to this man? Do I have to say, I understand you, you don't have to get in the car? You want me to tell him to do it? These are really the dilemmas that will often be discussed at the kitchen table in family situations in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u412	I recognize it, also that of the kitchen table by the way: someone who had to wait quite long. And by the way, the reason why Mr Van Ark is not here has to do with that. So I recognize it, but there is no other way but to say: it does mean staying home, if you have complaints. Anyway, before 1 June too, so before we said "everyone with complaints can be tested," you have to stay home if you have complaints. And that stays until you're free of complaints for 24 hours. So that's always the motto anyway, always.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u413	Good. Then I would actually like to make the proposal that only those questions that have not been answered... Because there's been a lot of interruptions, so lots of questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u414	I think I've sort of answered the questions, so I actually wanted to move on to some other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u415	Well, the source and contact research is also complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u416	Yeah, that was actually part of the same block, I think. Then I turn to Mrs Dik-Faber's question on ic-capacity: what is the state of play at the moment? You know that LNAZ, at the request of then Minister Van Rijn, together with the involved field parties, and also involving the opinion of the Chief Nursing Officer Bianca Buurman, has made the plan for the scaling up of ic capacity. Well, that plan stáát. It is about a step-by-step scaling of 1,150 to 1,350 beds, and also 400 clinical covid beds. As of 1 January, this is a scaling-up with an additional 350 flexible Ice beds to a total of 1,700 beds. However, you have to do absolutely everything you can to prevent you from ever needing it, I'll add. Hospitals are currently making every effort to further expand their ic and clinical capacity. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the nurse was sufficiently involved. Mr Van Ark recently brought the importance of this to the attention of the Dutch Association of Hospitals, the NFU and the V&VN. This has also been confirmed by the directors of these organisations, but ultimately it is about whether people in a hospital actually feel involved in these scaling-up plans. You'll hear a lot of different stories about that. That's just the honest practice. It is important that the people with whom the agreements have been made also communicate well with their supporters and that nurses, their representatives or others find easy access to the board or management. This was also discussed by Mr Van Ark with the President of NFU and NVZ. Mr Van der Staaij's questions on ic capacity related to the same points, so they were answered equally. Then there is a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van der Staaij about the bonus. We have of course discussed this very intensively, a number of times here but also in a separate AO in which I also explained in what way we make the choice and why we make a choice at all. The latter was actually a question from Mr Van der Staaij: why not just for everyone, because that is much easier? Well, that's definitely a lot easier. That saves you a lot of discussion, but I also took a good look at what was in the motion and I think it is right that it should be about those people in the care that, in the crisis, worked out of the seam in that first wave in order to enable care for corona patients or at least related to them. Of course, that doesn't apply to the whole of the care. It's a huge amount of money. You are asking the whole society to pay and I am sure that the whole society is very happy to do so, but I also think that society can expect us to opt for those people who have indeed done a lot more in healthcare. This is how the scheme was established and set up. This means that we have appointed a number of professions where you say that it is always the case that those people will have done more. We have also appointed a number of appeals where that is not the case. So we made a "yes, if" and a "no, unless" list. However, I say in the direction of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, it is always the employer who says: these people are eligible. We expect the employer to do so in a secure and responsible manner, but it is really the employer who knows if anyone has actually made extra efforts as a result of that first wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u417	I am not going to allow any more interruptions, because there is far too much to ask. I'm so sorry. You have a second term, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. That applies not only to you but to everyone. So I suggest the Minister answer all the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u418	Then I'll move on. By DENK and, I believe, by Mrs Van Brenk, we have been asked whether we are prepared for the flu. The flu can, of course, become a serious complication in the number of people who are already being tested at the time you say that anyone can be tested with complaints. So the flu can make things more complicated. If you're thinking about the quarantine rules that belong to the people with complaints, I think we should certainly worry about what that means for the number of people who come home during the flu season. I don't think we're quite able to figure that out at the moment. So are we actually ready? Although there is not really an alternative, which is to stay at home with complaints, I think we should think about what that could mean for vital sectors. That's one. Two. By now, do we have more flu shots available? Because let's assume that by now more people would actually want to be vaccinated. Yeah, we've been working on it. We made an additional purchase of half a million extra vaccines. Thus we have a total of 3.83 million vaccines available. This will enable us to actually vaccinate more people in the risk group. So we actually increased the number of vaccines. I think we have had the questions on this subject. Then I have a question about personal protective equipment. These were questions from Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Jetten. Mr Van Ark has promised that the LCH would pass on the scenarios that are also necessary for a more intensive preventive use of personal protective equipment in nursing homes in those regions where the rate of infection has now increased significantly. At the end of September we expect the result of that scenario sketch. So Mr Van Ark can come back to that in your Chamber. Then there was a question from Mrs Van Brenn about the fund. She asked if we would be prepared to create a fund. It has already been mentioned in the first term that a motion has already been tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Weyenberg. We chose to do this because it was a nice initiative of the Health Care Foundation after Work in Coronazorg to financially support relatives of caregivers who experience negative financial consequences of providing covid care. They have set up a support fund. And what we have done is to agree on a doubling of what is collected privately. The current contribution is 10 million. What I understand is that they expect the first million to be paid out this month. They've already picked up, I understand, four million privates. As I said, at least the cabinet will make a contribution of 10 million. Mr. Chairman. I think that has brought me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u419	Then there is a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen about the bonuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u420	Thank you very much. It's late, so I'll make it quick. The list of professions, the professions and the positions which do meet the criteria for demarcation is rather short. And if we look at the list of occupations that do not comply, that list is rather long. Does the Minister understand that trade unions, nurses' organisations and all health care workers who have actually cooperated and fought against the virus are a little shocked? I would like to mention, for example, the surgical assistants and the anesthesia nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u421	At least that is not the intention. What we are trying to say is exactly what your motion asked for. We have read it very carefully, about and about again. And we've also focused the execution very precisely on what your motion requires. Those who have made extra efforts in the crisis deserve our thanks and appreciation. And that's why I got the bonus. That's what it's aimed at. And that's how we made the list. And we have said that, at the request of employers, we are also making a 'yes, if' and a 'no, unless' list. At least that helps. But in the end, of course, it is really up to employers to make the choice. We cannot see from The Hague who has done what in the corona crisis. So it's really up to employers to make a good selection and to recite it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u422	Shortly, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u423	This point is very important: that it is for people, those care heroes who have actually helped in this crisis...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u424	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u425	It also concerns the employers of that very long list of "no, unless" functions. So if the employer, the health care institution, thinks that certain care heroes should be able to claim that bonus, then is that simply granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u426	That's exactly what it's meant to be. But then we assume that employers are also doing it in a responsible way. And so don't pick the easy route and say, "Here's my staff." But they really need to do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u427	Mrs Van Kooten, I think you have raised it a few times. It is therefore a repetition of a previous discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u428	It seems clear to me that healthcare providers are not going to take advantage of this. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u429	I hope so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u430	Okay. I have very briefly Mrs Van Esch, Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Jetten. First of all, Mrs van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u431	Part of my contribution was about this week's news about the sugar tax. Several mayors and also medical specialists really insist on introducing the sugar tax, even now because of corona many people overweight more often end up on the ic. I would like a response from this Minister, because I think that sugar tax is not only a component for the Secretary of State, but certainly a component for this Minister in relation to corona. I haven't had a reaction to that yet, so I'd like to receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u432	And from the Prime Minister, I actually think. I know that sugar tax was on the table when we made the Prevention Agreement. I also know that it was said at that time: perhaps we should not do that now. However, it has been examined whether that sugar tax could be sufficiently effective. I understand that the research results were a bit disappointing on that point. An international comparison has also been made. At the same time, I do not rule out the fact that you will find this tax in many electoral programmes. Of course, that could happen, because several parties are thinking about it. But at the moment it is not part of the Prevention Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u433	I know that it is already in many electoral programs...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u434	Can you check it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u435	...or that it's even in preparation. But unfortunately that tax is not there yet. I am still curious what your reaction is, or what the Prime Minister's response is in the second term, to the explicit request made this week by three aldermen in three cities and by medical specialists. They say, "Every day that there is no sugar tax is a day too much." Because we need to prevent people with corona from experiencing serious complaints because of too much sugar, which is a call that we really cannot ignore. You can give your response now or in your second term, but I do think that there really needs to be a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u436	I'm gonna respond now. I think it is a legitimate and plausible argument that more should be done about obesity. I also think it is legitimate to see if the sugar tax could play a role in this. That is why Mr Blokhuis has said: we are going to investigate this seriously. That's what happened. It has then been established that there is not only convincing evidence that it is actually going to work. Nevertheless, it may be that at some point this is a measure to be used, even if only because it will soon appear in many electoral programmes and possibly end up on the formation table. But now to say that you can prevent serious injury to corona patients on the ic with a sugar tax... That's quite a statement. I think it's hard to make up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u437	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Brenk for a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u438	Three questions from me have not been answered. That can be very short. First of all about the waste water at the nursing homes: is that being checked? I also asked about the ventilation systems in the nursing homes: what is the state of play at ActiZ? And I had asked another question about the daily spending, about the stool of carers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u439	Question one. At the moment, sewer water is being reduced at more than 300 points. A further supplement for nursing homes is being examined. That was your motion. That's what's being looked at right now. By the way, it looks at what you can learn from that sewer water surveillance. Two. The carers. Oh, I think that was your third question. Anything is done to support carers. You asked the same question last time. I explained that. In the letter I gave a detailed account of what is happening at the moment in terms of care support. It's one of the things you want them to get going as soon as possible. That agreement was made with the providers of daily shopping. This is particularly important for family care. What was your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u440	Ventilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u441	Ventilation. ActiZ is just working on that. I don't have any new information on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u442	And if you have it, you'll send it to the Chamber, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u443	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u444	Mr Jetten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u445	My question about the test street at Schiphol Airport has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u446	Knowing that the test street swallowed about 1,000 tests per day of the total capacity, we said in the current context: we should not do that anymore. The pilot is finished with that. We're going to evaluate the pilot and see if asymptomatic testing of incoming travellers has more added value. Then we will see if the test capacity is sufficient to allow a restart at other airports. In that order, we want to do that. I expect the decision-making process to take place in October, and I want to see it very clearly myself in the context of the development of the rapid tests, because the current PCR capacity may not be entirely tailored to this type of very high volume tests either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u447	This has also been discussed in the General Political Reviews, I remember. Mr. Jetten, you know that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u448	I know that too, Madam President. There's even a debate on travel and corona this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u449	And you thought, "I'm gonna ask you again at noon?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u450	Look, in the end, this is about the point we've been discussing a lot. Some things are announced with a lot of bombabre in press conferences and then turn out to be just a trial that is stopped again. That is simply annoying in society and also distrust of reciprocity. It raises the question of whether the government is in order. In fact, the simple question is whether the minister still sees the added value of testing travellers coming from risk areas and possibly bringing new corona contamination sites to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u451	It's always been a trial. From the start I have told you all about this leaflet every time. I do not believe that, so I think Mr Jetten is right to point out a point. However, the point is also that you have to face the dilemma. If you have to choose, do you think testing all returning travellers, including those without complaints, is the most effective? Or, if that is at the expense of testing people with complaints, shouldn't you choose to test people with complaints? In fact, everyone says: no, testing the people with complaints always comes first. That's how honest you have to be: sometimes you just have to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u452	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u453	Mr President, thank you. Our concerns are great, because the cabinet is losing control of the virus and trust from society. We have three motions. I'm gonna read them to you soon, or I'm not gonna make it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been concern among caregivers about who is now and who is not eligible for the healthcare bonus;]] [[Whereas the identification of those eligible for a bonus will lead to additional bureaucracy for healthcare providers;]] [[believes that the healthcare bonus should not become a fighting bonus that leads to division rather than to the appreciation of caregivers;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the distinction between the professions in the healthcare bonus and to propose how the health bonus can be paid out to anyone working in the care, subject to the condition that the health bonus be paid to twice as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a second corona wave is coming and we already have a shortage of caregivers;]] [[noting the importance of maintaining caregivers in the care sector by improving their appreciation;]] [[noting that this cabinet leaves the appreciation of caregivers to a subsequent cabinet;]] [[believes that caregivers now deserve a structural appreciation;]] [[calls on the government to make plans for a structural valuation of caregivers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas adequate protective equipment such as mouth caps, gloves and aprons are essential for emergency workers;]] [[Whereas preventive use of protective equipment and personal professional consideration when its use is appropriate lead to the prevention of new COOVID-19 infections and health damage in the care of the elderly;]] [[noting that a second corona wave is now emerging;]] [[points out that, in order to avoid new shortages, an iron supply of protective equipment should be carried out as quickly as possible on the basis of a substantial increase in environmental prevalence and on the basis of personal and professional considerations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-544]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-545]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-546]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u454	Mr. Chairman. It's good to think about what we saw tonight. There is a coronaduo there that has difficulty in recognising errors in terms of the protection of care workers and lack of testing capacity. A duo that is not ready for what is happening now: a second wave. There's gonna be a toolbox. There is also something interesting politically, because you can see that this Chamber is actually saying: we want much more information, we want more action, less words, less promises. The corona policy of this cabinet and of this duo is in that sense under the curatel of this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I therefore have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the OMT has stated that it is essential for persons with complaints to be tested and for positive results to participate in source and contact research;]] [[Whereas the number of infections is increasing but the test capacity is lagging behind;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber on a weekly basis of the test capacity, lead time, state of the BCO and the concrete efforts made to obtain sufficient testing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of infections is increasing rapidly;]] [[considers that a new lockdown should be avoided and there is no time to lose;]] [[calls on the government to send further plans to the Chamber this week to combat the spread of the virus in various regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-547]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-548]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u455	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u456	Mr President, thank you. Two important topics today. When it comes to personal protective equipment in nursing homes and in home care, basically all care outside hospitals: the Prime Minister has given answers to the questions asked. Actually, I didn't think those answers were good enough. The Prime Minister constantly referred to a RIVM document. I have indicated that the references contained therein, including the WHO, are outdated references. The Prime Minister has agreed to come back to that. I would like to see that in his second term or in writing. I would ask you to do so as soon as possible next week, because this is an important subject. I also think that a mistake should be admitted. That's important for all those people who've worked in care, unprotected. A cabinet that can admit mistakes can continue to count on our support. It's hard for me to find a cabinet that surrounds it. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the test policy. Mr Dijkhoff will be tabling a motion in a moment on the speed tests and their purchase as soon as possible and as soon as possible. I would like to stress once again what Mr Heerma has also said: create overcapacity, as much as possible. I'll be on the interrupting microphone every time I don't have enough buy-in, but if too much is bought, you'll never hear me complain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u457	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u458	Thank you, Mr President. What a mess. That's what I started with in the first term and again now. The answers are unsatisfactory when it comes to testing, when it comes to care workers without protective equipment. It's gone wrong in every possible way. I do not think the Minister of Health can handle his work, so I think: instead of yet another motion of censure, I will once again propose a motion of reflection to the Chamber. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the test policy, test capacity, source and contact research is a major mess;]] [[believes that it is in the national interest and importance of our public health, economy and freedom that we have a Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport who solves problems;]] [[points out that if the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport can't handle it, it's too much for him if he doesn't like it anymore to deal with these problems, it's understandable if the stick is handed over to another person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-549]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u459	Then a motion on the aerosols, a blind spot in the cabinet. Mrs Merkel does and teaches about it for the public. I call on the Prime Minister to do the same. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the important role of contagion with corona via microdrops, the so-called aerogenic transmission, and to give ample attention to the proper ventilation of indoor spaces at the next press conference,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-550]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u460	And last but not least. I think today was 66 votes against, 65 in favour. So we didn't get that raise for people in care on the edge. That just didn't work out, but we try again every week, the SP and others do so just as long as we can. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to significantly increase the salaries of healthcare workers in all healthcare sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-551]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u461	Mr. Chairman. Mr Asscher concluded a bit on behalf of the Chamber that the cabinet was under curate, but that is very badly related to the call of many parties to the cabinet to spend a lot of money, especially on cases. That's the opposite of a curatele. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion on the speed tests. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current test and lab capacity is insufficient and that there are uncertainties as to how the test question develops;]] [[Whereas it is necessary both to combat the outbreak of infection and from the point of view of social and economic activity to continue to scale up the test capacity;]] [[Considering that innovative testing methods are less invasive to humans, that rapid testing is already being carried out in other European countries and that rapid testing, in particular for low risk groups, complements current testing policies;]] [[Whereas in outbreak situations a rapid test allows repeated testing of people exposed to the virus in order to prevent further spread more efficiently;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, as one of the few countries, is committed to national validation of the rapid test on top of international validation, resulting in serious delays in implementation;]] [[considers that, given the high level of international competition in the purchase of rapid testing, it is necessary to speed up the process;]] [[calls on the Government to buy in large-scale rapid tests on a very short-term basis in order to increase the test capacity rapidly;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the way in which rapid tests are deployed within the test policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u462	Mr President, thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to grant a net COOVID-19 bonus to the healthcare professionals and support staff who are influxing from 1 September and contributing to the fight against the second corona wave,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-553]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u463	Sorry for the slips; it's late. I don't fuck around anymore. Haha. And the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to award an additional net COVID-19 bonus to health professionals and support staff who contributed to the fight against the coronavirus during the relevant wave after each official wave,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-554]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u464	Mr. Chairman. Mr Asscher spoke earlier in the debate about a minister who goes on holiday and said: the cabinet is under curatel. I find that rather harsh. I think we are all seeing a cabinet that is working very hard to tackle this corona crisis, but also a cabinet that has finally looked in the mirror tonight for some reflection and which, after a long press from the Chamber, has also said: it should have been much better on a number of points. That is also the case: it should have been better in many respects. It should have been better placed on testing capacity, on protective equipment for healthcare workers, who should not work unnecessarily unsafely. In the coming weeks, we will hold the cabinet to the fact that the promises for improvements are going to turn out that way. I have tabled a motion with Mrs Marijnissen to ensure that preventive protective equipment for care workers is actually put in place. With Mr Asscher, I have tabled a motion to keep the finger on the pulse about how the test capacity is developing over the next few weeks. I would also like to table the next motion, because I think it is important for the Dutch to know what additional measures they can expect if we find ourselves in another alert phase. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that external experts in the lessons learned stress that the roadmap has helped in communicating and giving perspective to Dutch people;]] [[noting that the cabinet has started with three phases of regional alert;]] [[Whereas during the technical briefing the RIVM indicated that the OMT has "a toolbox" of measures that can be used by region to prevent further spread of the virus;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a new roadmap for the coming period, which will make it clear by alert phase (1) what measures are available to prevent dissemination, (2) what indicators or situations they may be considered and (3) what indicators or situations these measures may be scaled down;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-555]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u465	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS for the answers to the questions asked. I would like to remind you of the Prime Minister's commitment to the two ECDC and WHO reports of April 2020. Both reports recommend that caregivers and cleaning staff should also wear personal protective equipment at a distance greater than 1.5 metres and also in case of volatile contacts. I would very much like to clarify this, because I believe that this is essential in order to restore confidence among the care staff. I have a motion that I'm going to read very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nurses and nurses are not sufficiently involved in the scaling-up of corona care in spring;]] [[Whereas the Dik-Faber/Ellemeet motion (31765, No. 505) asks to explore how the control of nurses and caregivers can be legally anchored at institution level, but that this is not regulated in the short term;]] [[Whereas the Klever/Dijkhoff motion (25295, No. 358) calls for ic nurses to be involved in administrative decision-making on the scaling up of ic capacity, as well as ic doctors, but a recent poll by V&V shows that a large proportion of ic nurses do not feel sufficiently involved in the scaling-up;]] [[Whereas control of nurses and caregivers in hospitals and nursing homes is of great importance in important decisions on the organisation of care to ensure that they can continue their work and are maintained for care;]] [[invites the Government, together with relevant parties such as V&VN, NFU, NVZ, NVIC and ActiZ, to make concrete agreements on the better involvement of nurses and nurses in important decisions on the scaling-up of corona care in hospitals and nursing homes, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-556]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u467	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u468	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. The points that my group considers to be of great importance are already sufficiently incorporated into other motions. So I will not allow the increase in the number of infections to lead to an increase in the number of motions in the Chamber. But I just want to make a comment about the testing that we have talked about so extensively tonight. I think that the whole debate is one great encouragement, also towards the cabinet, to be able to take legal and financial risks in increasing that test capacity as quickly as possible. We will, of course, follow closely how that will develop, precisely because it is and remains a cornerstone of policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u469	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u470	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that vulnerable Dutch people are vaccinated against the flu virus so that their resistance to the corona virus is more resistant and that hospitals are protected;]] [[Whereas it is also important that as many care workers as possible be vaccinated against the flu virus;]] [[Whereas it is expected that people who are not vulnerable to the corona virus will also want to get the flu shot;]] [[Whereas there is a potential shortage of flu vaccines;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that sufficient flu shots are available to all vulnerable people and care workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas carers are indispensable for many people;]] [[Whereas many carers are in danger of becoming overburdened;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to improve support for carers as quickly as possible by, for example, scaling up daily spending,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-557]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-558]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u471	We saw a box-K where a lot was played and where a lot of vague language was used. With us there is grumpy, because we really think that people have been put at risk here and a minister is ultimately responsible for this. I would like to see, if the fund were to turn out to be insufficient, this cabinet guaranteeing that there is room for that. Secondly, I would very much like to have that commitment. Mr. Chairman. No one would benefit from sending a minister away during a crisis. That is why we will certainly not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u472	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u473	Madam President. Two brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good communication contributes to better compliance with the necessary behavioural measures;]] [[calls on the government to hold the coronaper conferences at least once a week, on a fixed day and a fixed time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-559]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u474	And the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the test capacity of GMDs should be substantially increased as soon as possible;]] [[Considering that several GMDs do not have sufficient financial resources to achieve this quickly and effectively;]] [[calls on the government to make a budget of at least 50 million available to the GGDs so that money does not hinder the scaling up of testing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-560]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u475	Mr. Chairman. The uncertainty regarding the false positive results of the PCR test must of course be removed. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is unrest in society regarding the reliability of the PCR test;]] [[Whereas the PCR test provides the basis for the corona measures;]] [[invites the Government to forward the validation report (Real Life Practice-Based Validation) on the PCR test to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-561]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My motion on the sugar tax was perhaps already to be expected. The Minister just indicated that there would be insufficient research to show that a sugar tax will work, but recently even research from RIVM and the Ministry of Finance has come to show that the introduction of a sugar tax will have very positive effects. So even the Ministry of Finance is behind it. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aldermen of Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Utrecht and medical specialists this week insist on a sugar tax;]] [[Whereas good basic health and the fight against obesity and diabetes 2 can make a major contribution to reducing the impact of the coronavirus on society;]] [[noting that experience in the United Kingdom and Norway and recent research carried out by RIVM and the Ministry of Finance shows that the introduction of a form of taxation on sugar has positive effects, such as reduced sugar intake, a reduction in the quantity of sugar in products and a decrease in sales of sugary products;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal in the short term for a form of taxation of sugar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-562]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u477	Then quickly my other motion on stopping the active retrieval of the virus. The Chamber was supposed to debate two weeks ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u478	I would immediately proceed to read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u479	Yeah, I'm gonna do that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the corona crisis;]] [[noting that airlines such as Ryanair, Pegasus and SunExpress stuns with dumping prices for tickets to risk areas;]] [[points out that the promotion of dump tickets to risk areas is completely inappropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch, Mr Van Raan and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-563]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u480	Two weeks ago, a debate would take place on this subject. That debate will now take place next Thursday. Unfortunately, our aviation spokesman is at home as a precaution and cannot be present at that debate. That is why I have tabled the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u481	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u482	Mr. Chairman. There is a great deal of support in society to deal wisely with the risks of the coronavirus, but there is a lot of ambiguity and sometimes ambiguity. People sometimes find it difficult to keep the agreements, also due to a lack of urgency. I think that a number of BNs with an unwise hashtag have unintentionally made the first clear in the last day and perhaps increased the second. In this way, something bad can also have good consequences. If you look at this debate, you will also see that it is necessary for the cabinet to tighten up a number of things. I heard them in the debate too. That's what's in communication. For example, it is not good that the RIVM decision of 17 August has not been communicated. This requires more awareness and tightness, because it allows you to create uncertainty for days. The cabinet will also have to shape the crisis structure and organisation better. That's what commitments have been made. Then the last. Mr Klaver was right in his interruption in the first term: we are moving towards a test society. The core of this is testing, tracing and isolating, both worldwide and in the Netherlands. In case of doubt, make up for this. I repeat that here again. We're gonna need those rapid tests to function more normally as a society. We cannot then be told that others do have them and we still have two months to wait for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u483	Thank you. I'm just looking at the Prime Minister and the Minister to see if there's a need for a suspension. Twenty motions have been tabled. Shall I suspend the meeting for ten minutes? Seven and a half minutes, Minister De Jonge says. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u484	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u485	Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the motions, I would like to briefly reflect on the part of the first-term debate on the issue of the directive on volatile contact within 1.5 metres, because I think it is good to say the following. It was also said this afternoon in the briefing: it was not deliberately neglected, but it should not have happened that the directive was amended on 17 August. It was also said at the time that this is actually extremely unfortunate. I think that's true. It wasn't supposed to be like that. It has also been pointed out in the Chamber that the fact that this happened on 17 August without giving explicit attention to it at that time has led to unnecessary unrest among people in care. I really want to say here that I regret that. I realize that, and I regret that. That motivates us even more, I have already promised to look together with the RIVM at how we will continue in the future, if there are significant changes to directives, which can explicitly bring to the attention of the public. That will not go with all the changes, because very often they are small technical things, but if they are larger changes, which are really more fundamental, they are explicitly highlighted. I really wanted to say that and also to say that I truly regret this unrest among the staff in the care sector. Then there are a few motions that are on the subject of the debate that I myself have made. In the motion in part No. 548 of the Labour Party the government is invited to send the regional approach plans to the Chamber this week. That's too fast. We work there. We do it together with the regions, but we cannot now impose a blueprint on the country. That's contrary to the thought of customization. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 548. The motion in part No. 550 is, again, about the aerosols, about the aerogenic transmissions. I have responded to this in detail in the debate. With reference to that, the motion seeks in part No. Dissuade 550 of the PVV. The motion in part No. As far as I am concerned, 555 on the Roadmap will be judged by the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, this is going to work as follows. It begins with the explanation of the situation. In that case, the scale-up of the regions will come with appropriate measures and the integral weighting. We're going through this process every week. Additional measures will be introduced if necessary. That is what the cabinet is talking about with the regions. The starting point is: regionally wherever possible and as focused as possible. If the region is scaled up, additional measures will be taken, i.e. if the region moves to a higher level. So if the region gets worried, there will be more action and if the region gets serious, more action will follow. It is about tailor-made work and a structured process, in which relaxation also takes place and the Chamber is regularly informed. I think this is in the spirit of the debate. The motion in part No. 555 gets judgment, Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Well, once a week a press conference seems too much to me. Once every two weeks seems to me to be the maximum. But we're gonna check it out. If it's necessary, it'll have to be more frequent. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 559. The motion in part No. 563 of the Party for Animals is about an area where I intended to consider today if questions had come to light. That didn't happen. The motion is a speech-exmotion and doesn't ask for anything from the cabinet, so I don't have to give advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u486	Thank you. I now give the floor to the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u487	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the motion in part No. 544. I would advise against this motion, referring to the many debates that have already taken place and are about to take place, including in the budget debate. Then I come to the motion on part No. 545. Apologies, the earlier recommendation was part of the motion in part No. 545. Because the motion in part No. 544 calls for the distinction of professions in the healthcare bonus to be abolished. We have already had the debate on this. I do not intend to do that, because that would reduce the bonus either very much or very much more expensive. You ask the whole of the Netherlands to pay for that bonus. The mission of the motion was to make that bonus benefit the people who made extra efforts in the corona crisis. That is why we have carried out the motion as well as possible in this way. The motion in part No. 545 was about structural valuation. That's what I just referred to. I'm going to ask for the motion in part No. 546 to be retained. What's in the motion is what's being mapped out right now. The scenarios are outlined. Mr Van Ark will come back to that at the end of September, at least at the end of September. So I'm really gonna ask you to hold this motion. The motion in part No. 547 requests the Government to inform the Chamber of the test capacity on a weekly basis. I just want to do that as we are used to doing, namely in a biweekly letter, especially now that we are going to restore that biweekly rhythm. That's what I want to do in that letter. If I may read the motion in such a way that I do it in the progress notes, with the ingredients as you name them here, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 549. It may be somewhat unheard of, but it must be a very loving motion, at least that's how I see her: loving and compassionate. It's just that there's no request from the Cabinet. So you, as a Chamber, have to give a ruling on this. Then the motion to part No. 551. It is again about the structural increase in salaries. So I also advise against this motion, referring to the many debates that have already taken place on this subject. Then I come to the motion on part No. 552.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u488	Before you go any further, there's another question about a motion. It's useful if you just mention the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u489	Yeah, about the motion in part No. 547. I was just listening to the words of the Minister who actually said: I want to do it as I already did. That, of course, is not the thrust of the motion. The motion calls for more regular and precise information. It doesn't have to be in letters. You can do that online. There is no need for all letters to be typed, but it is information that is in the letter. If we understand each other in that respect, I welcome the judgment Chamber, but if we do not, we must now avoid a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u490	Well, look, if you have to describe a state of affairs or a concrete effort, I think that should take the form of a letter. I don't want to just put the club behind the typewriter. I just want to send them to the market to buy test capacity in and out. I think I'm doing what goes into progress letters in a preliminary report to your Chamber. I think that's the best way to inform. If some of them could also be automated, I think that would be fine. I think that's a good suggestion to take. This could be done, for example, with regard to the lead times at any time. This can now be automated from CoronIT. I think some of it could be automated, and then I'm fine with it. Only the letter writery I really want to do in a biweekly rhythm, as we did before the summer holidays. Then the motion to part No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u491	552?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u492	Yeah, piece number one. 552 again. It's about the speed tests. I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber on that. The motion in part No. 553 would be an extension of the bonus as we defined the scheme on the basis of the motion. So I'm going to discourage this motion in this form. Of course, you have seen in the budget that we want to make a new bonus next year. The motion in part No. 554 asks the government to pay a bonus after each official corona wave. We haven't provided for that at the moment, so I'm going to advise against it if it's all right with you. Then the motion to part No. 556. That motion of the Christian Union, the VVD and GroenLinks asks for concrete agreements to be made on the better involvement of nurses. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. The motion in part No. number 557 asks the government to ensure that there are sufficient flu shots available for all vulnerable people and care workers. I can't live up to that, because there's too many of them for that. I just mentioned the number to you. From my point of view, we have 3.8 million flu shots by now. That's a lot, a lot more than last year. It's over 0.5 million more than last year. But for all those people, you can't. So many flu vaccines are not available on the world market at the moment. We've tried very hard. We've managed to get an extra 0.5 million, but we can't provide for all those people. Unfortunately, I have to advise against this motion, because I would like to do so. I very much agree with you that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u493	Very briefly, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u494	Actually, the point was that we want the vulnerable people and the care workers to go for all the people who think: let me do it just in case I get something. Could we at least be given the undertaking that the Minister is trying to steer it as far as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u495	Yeah, sure, but we're actually already doing that. In the vaccination programme we try to provide as many tests as possible, especially for the vulnerable groups. Our experience is that about half of the people in the so-called vulnerable target group use a flu vaccine. On top of that experience we have done 0.5 million additional tests. That will mean that there can be a greater reach among the vulnerable. So that's what we're aiming for anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u496	Then the motion to part No. 558.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u497	I would, of course, like to leave it to the House to decide. The motion in part No. 559 calls on the government to make a budget of at least 50 million available to the GGD tomorrow. The amount available to the GGD is many, many times greater than this 50 million. In addition, I have agreed with the GGD that they have an almost unlimited credit card from the Empire to do all the things that are needed. That's what I agreed with them months ago. In the meantime, we spend more than 1 billion on testing policies, including the GGD. I think the G.G.D.'s counter's at a $400 million or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u498	And the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u499	Not very necessary. How do you do that? I wouldn't recommend it, because we're already doing a lot more than this motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u500	The motion in part No. 560.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u501	Yeah, the PCR test. Let's talk about that again! I am going to discourage this motion, if you will allow it, with reference to the many statistical considerations that our Prime Minister has already given on that point. The motion in part No. I am going to dissuade 561 on the sugar tax, because the Secretary of State has already dealt with this in the letter of Parliament. Then I have one more question, namely Mrs Van Brenk's question about the fund. Imagine if you didn't quite manage to raise that $10 million from private investors, would the cabinet be willing to vouch for it? If I say that now, I don't think this is an encouragement to increase private revenues. So I think we should just do this in line with the proposal. You could say something else. Imagine if the call on that fund was even higher than those two times 10 million, would you be willing to look at it nicely? I'd like to make that commitment. But I do assume that the private initiative will be filled with real privacy, and then we will co-finance it with another 10 million. Then I have one more commitment that I just need to make concrete. We have talked about personal protective equipment, about RIVM and about the WTO directives. To what extent does what is in the directive still differ from the WTO directives? I understand that around 20 April there was a change in the WHO studies, if I remember correctly the date. In what way is it also involved in the RIVM LCI Directive? We need to check that, so we ask RIVM if it can respond to that in the next progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u502	I see Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u503	I asked another question about the catering industry. I believe it was the Prime Minister who said that I would get a comprehensive answer to that in any case in writing at the next progress report. Because I want a comprehensive answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u504	I'm gonna respond to that. I'm gonna do a little profit warning. The analysis of the BCO shall be classified under a number of headings. So it's classified on "horeca." But no further distinction is made in "restaurants," "snack bars" or "student societies." There is simply selected on "horeca," so that is the restriction. At the same time, what I can do is ask through a number of GGDs: what do you see coming back to it? But then it becomes more anecdotal instead of fur. But I think it is good to give the sketch that Mr Wilders is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u505	Good. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u506	Well, if you want to make that effort to ask those GGDs that, that would be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u507	Yeah, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u508	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u509	We shall vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday, I think. I would like to thank the MPs, the Prime Minister, the Minister of the United States, and everyone who has followed the debate, and in particular the messengers, who have cleaned up hard during this debate.
