ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are going to address Mrs Leijten's questions on behalf of the SP to the Minister of Finance, whom I would also like to welcome. The questions are about: no evidence of criminal acts in the Tax Administration. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The parents who received these black-painted files have now all had a conversation with the Tax Office and have been told that they are not fraudsters. But that's how they've been treated for years. The strike was unlawful. Houses have been cleaned out and forced to sell. They have lived below the minimum standard of existence and objections they have submitted have not been dealt with. At the Tax Phone they were shuffled off, because it was described in internal guidelines. The tax authorities went through the process until the parents fell down, with incomplete files, which prevented parents from defending themselves. I say to the Minister that these are not parents who have come for the wheels of the government. There's been a crime committed by that government against these parents. There was no legal protection. The right of existence was taken from them. And didn't anyone know about this? Yes, there were whistleblowers, but nothing was done about it. There were political signals, but nothing was done about it. Parliamentary questions in 2014, in 2016 and lately a lot, were actually answered with lies. The Kinderombudsman and the Ombudsman were ignored. The premium affair is an accumulation of abuse of power, crimes of office and dereliction of duty. I therefore do not understand why this Minister at Buitenhof says that he has no evidence that criminal offences have been committed. Can the Minister state what investigation he has made of these statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to Mrs Leijten for her questions on this extremely important and complex subject. We are at Question Time today, so I will keep it brief, but I think I should say a few fundamental things about it, given the enormous importance of this dossier. The first is this. I have written to the Chamber and have repeatedly tried to say in the media that from the cabinet everything must be aimed at getting started, and no more than that, at restoring confidence and doing justice to the situation in which parents have ended up. That is what the efforts in recent weeks, including myself personally, have been aimed at in the discussions with parents, Mr Donner and the Ombudsman and in the letter received by the Chamber last Saturday, in which I made comments on a lot of things, including the whistle-blower scheme and the counsellor. Evident has gone a lot wrong and this is really just the beginning. The second thing I have to stress in this debate, especially in this House, is that the vast majority of the staff of the Tax Administration, over 30,000, are working every day, of course, with dedication, skill and integrity. I do not think that Mrs Leijten is in question either, but I would like to mention it. I mention this because it is also important towards so many of us who are working for all of us, for politics, the government and the country. My third point concerns Mrs Leijten's question. We are in a situation where MPs and others say: pay attention, there may be something going on here in criminal terms. I take that extremely seriously, of course. Anyway, but by the way, the Code of Criminal Procedure would require not only me, but every official of the Dutch government to do so. I think it's Article 162. At the same time, the complexity of not having received any indications on my desk in the last three weeks that there would be criminal offences that would oblige me to take certain steps. That's what I've been trying to say. There are indeed things that have gone wrong, for example in terms of deadlines. That's no surprise when you look at the WOB. On the one hand, therefore, I have the signals that Mrs Leijten is now sending out. On the other hand, I must also look at what I myself have received about it. And honest is fair, that's at least uncomfortable. Mr. Chairman. How else? I think this means a few things. It means first of all that I want to continue with those counsellors and that I want to maintain them very specifically on this part of the debate. Of course, they have their own opportunity to fill it in and if people want to, they will speak to them anonymously and will collect wider information, but I would also like to draw their attention to this particular part of the debate. The second is that I would like to appeal to those who say they have information on which there is a criminal component. That's information to be shared with the D.A. and the Ministry; with the appropriate channels. The third is that we will also be speaking to lawyers who apparently have that kind of signal, to simply collect information and to bridge that complexity that there is information that I now have and those others say to have. Then there is the fourth and last thing I would like to commit to Mrs Leijten and to the Chamber. In any case, I will ask for a second opinion myself from an outsider, someone of great caliber who looks inside from the outside, whether the information I have now and hopefully will get will give rise to further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	Something has, of course, happened before Christmas, namely the resignation of the Secretary of State. I've seen how hard the minister has been and how he's been talking to the parents. Those parents did a good job. The Minister says he wants to do something with that Tax Office, and that seems to be a good thing in some way. But he does understand that if you fail to investigate who knew when what, who might have failed to intervene or perhaps made that intervention impossible, if you don't do that research, there can never be a restoration of trust? He lists four things and tells the counselors to take a look at them. They still need to be installed. They're there for the present and this is about the past. He makes an appeal to people to give information. Talk to those whistleblowers, Minister, I'd say, because that's what they're asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	Then he says lawyers have signals and he's gonna ask for a second opinion. In fact, the Minister says that he actually wants to do research, but that he may not. Is that the problem here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	In the end, the Chamber is the one that decides what is or is not allowed, but let me stress once again that I have no reason to be too economical to want to find out. On the contrary. I believe that this whole operation is about restoring confidence; Mrs Leijten, in her words, strikes the nail on the head. It's about doing justice and just knowing what happened. Of course, only the complexity here is that you have to talk about a criminal offence description and about elements that you have to meet in order to get into criminal law. That is quite different from the path of administrative law or the Civil Code. There must be information for that. I understand that Mrs Leijten says she has clues and that there are lawyers who have information. I would very much like that information to be sent to the appropriate authorities. I want to do everything I can myself to throw out the net and get that information. But the honest answer is that in the last three weeks I have not received any files, which state: well, Minister, be aware, there may be a criminal offence here. So I'd like to take a broader look. I would like to get the information, but this is also the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	How can a minister say on the one hand that he does not want to be too economical and at the same time be too economical, namely by not conducting that investigation? From the documents that have been requested by those journalists, it has come out that there were internal working instructions, which said: do not take any objections into consideration, that people should do away with them. That's a violation. Is that possible? Check that out!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	There has been an unlawful act when it comes to stopping and recovering. There are no records that say those people were frauds and that they needed that treatment. Then you'll see who decided that, who knew about it, if that was a criminal offence at the time? Probably not. I'm not a judge, but it needs to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	Have there been times when whistleblowers were being pushed away, when political decisions were being made that were being pushed away? Is that a breach of duty? This is so big that the Minister cannot say that he wants to eject a net for evidence. Let's do the investigation! I think that would be really good. There may well be no indications, as the Minister at Buitenhof said, but then he had that investigation done himself. I would like to make one more appeal, otherwise we will have to decide here in the Chamber, but I find that rather ugly policy. I'll make one more appeal: do that investigation myself, see if there are any criminal offences, and if so, try to get them prosecuted. Do not ask third parties to provide evidence, but do so yourself. Find out who was responsible and look away when they should have intervened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	I want to be very precise about a few things, because I said in Buitenhof that I do not have that indication. That does not mean that there are no criminal offences. It means that in the last three weeks, since I took over the responsibility of the Secretary of State, I have not obtained any information indicating this. You're damn right if I had that information, I would of course have acted on it. I have, of course, dealt intensively with this matter in the last few weeks, because of its importance. The next thing I would like to say to Mrs Leijten is that I will also have the information investigated. That is the fourth point. There's gonna be an outsider, an outsider, who's gonna look at that information. It must then come to a judgement whether something is going on here that lends itself to criminal law. If necessary, follow the normal path of the D.A.'s office. I would like to stress to the Chamber that I cannot send in that service to the Public Prosecutor's Office, or anyone else, without having a title, without a specific crime. That's the only way it's gonna work. That would not do justice to the situation. And that wouldn't be a solution either, because then the DA and the police will immediately ask: yes, but, Mr. Hoekstra, what then and who then? My fourth point is: I repeat that, because I think it is rather close to what Mrs Leijten is saying, I would like to ask an outsider to see to what extent there is cause and indications of going the way through the police to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This must be based on the information that is available, which is a complicated puzzle, and the information that we are still getting, with which we would, once again, be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you for your question, Mrs Leijten. Mr. Azarkan on behalf of DENK, for one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	The Minister has already indicated that it is a complex matter. If there's something missing, it's the human size. Mr Snel said it, the Ombudsman said it, and the Donner Committee said it in the report. The human dimension means taking into account the feelings of the parents, who have worked against them for years and who have sometimes had to adapt their own lives. They couldn't buy gifts for their kids. That also means that you ask the minister who takes over to think very carefully about what he says. It can't be that you're making a ruling on the basis of unfinished research. Does the Minister understand that this was a rather clumsy statement, especially if you still have to carry out part of the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	It does not happen often, but I think Mr Azarkan is a little short of me here. I've just been talking to dozens of parents, because we've all been looking at this, and I'm ashamed of myself. I think the government has left a lot of stuff here and has to fix a lot. The last few weeks have been part of many elements for me, in which the parents have played a very central role. That's one. I really want to mark that. The second is: when someone asks me if there is a reason to report it, I can only say that I have no indication at this time, as I say, in my conscience, and simply have not received the information on my desk indicating that I am obliged to report it. That's one way. But of course I have also heard very well what Members of Parliament have said about it and what lawyers have said about it. I think that we should get on with it. That is why I think it is very important to collect this information actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	Okay, you said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think it is very important for those counselors to proceed. My fourth point is really close to what Mrs Leijten said: I want an external to see if we have been too short in the assessment of the information and the possible indications of criminal action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	The minister just mentioned as a fourth option to get someone to look at it externally. Is that guy gonna do research, too? That's actually what I'm asking, and then we could just sort of agree. Is that research going to be done, or is it just going to look at indications? When can we hear more from the Minister about when he gets to work and thinks he's going to get results?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	Here's what I'm gonna do with the Chamber. I think it's important that I share the scope of the exact work with the Chamber. So it's about what the approach route I see for me is for the lady or the gentleman. In fact, I will have to think about it and I will also have to be advised by people who are far more gifted than I am in administrative and criminal law when it comes to how you do it wisely. Next, I would like to prepare Mrs Leijten for the fact that once that lady or gentleman has started, it will be a decent job, so I do not expect her to be on the doorstep of the Chamber or me after three or four weeks and say 'nothing wrong' or 'evidently major problems'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you.
