ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. Thank you for joining us. The next item is the debate on the Annual Report 2020, Section 35650, No. 1. We have ten participants in this morning's debate, including the late tenderers, Mr. Nijboer. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck from the Group of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last year was marked by the terrible corona outbreak, with great consequences for our health, the economy and our budget. From a situation of high economic growth with historically low unemployment, we are now in an economic dip. The economy is shrinking by more than 4%, unemployment is doubling next year according to the CPB. If there is another wave, which is not excluded, then unemployment could go to 10%. Corona has lost us 50 billion in economic growth. But we're far from there. The PVV fears a bankruptcy wave in 2021, leading to mass unemployment. How is the Minister going to prevent this? The PVV therefore wants all costs incurred by the affected companies to be reimbursed. That's the least of it. We must prevent companies from going ahead just before the finish line, because that would be a waste forever. Then everything has been for nothing, all support is then wasted money. In this context, we are also concerned about the accumulated debt. Many companies have lent their loans and have delayed payments. The banks have granted 34 000 loans worth 25 billion. 130,000 companies also received a payment break from the bank, worth 3.1 billion. 220,000 Companies received deferred payment of taxes, worth 15 billion. And some companies got deferred payment from creditors, such as rent, breweries, lease contracts and so on. That's a reservoir of debts that all have to be repaid. How are they gonna do that, I'm gonna ask this minister. Has the Minister thought about that at all? We're talking about mega sums, we're talking about over 50 billion. The tax debt alone is on average about €65,000 per company. Soon the corona-wretched will be over and we will still have a bankruptcy wave because of the accumulated debt mountain. We have to prevent that. I'd like a response from this minister. Mr. Chairman. In the Autumn note I discovered one major setback and that is, how could it be otherwise, the payments to Brussels. Whether we want to transfer an additional 415 million, on top of the 9 billion we lost to Brussels in the first place. But wait, that's not all. We also have to pay another 700 million on imports of solar panels. The Minister wasn't actually planning to do this, but he's doing it now. Otherwise, the interest on late payments will continue to rise. The counter is now at 300 million in interest. 300 million out of 700 million. That's almost 50% interest. That's ridiculous. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. Why didn't we know about this? You're not gonna pay for that, are you? We're getting undressed in front of us, and this minister just wants to pay. I assume that the Minister will initiate a legal procedure for unjust enrichment of the European Commission. That's the least of it. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then the buffers. If Corona has made one thing clear, it is the vulnerability of many companies and households. We work hard in the Netherlands, but we have no fat on the bones. There's nothing left. 40% of Dutch people have a savings pot of less than €1,000. And there are 1 million workers, according to the General Court. It's a shocking observation. With the slightest or least setback, we are in financial difficulties. According to the Nibud, 1.3 million families already face problematic debts, and the expectation is that this will double. So one in three families has financial problems. And what does the Cabinet do? This increases the burden of citizens. The energy bill, the groceries, the VAT, the care premium: everything becomes more expensive every year. Even the rents this year had the highest increase in six years, by 2.9%. And that while a third of the tenants are financially completely stuck. Almost half of the Dutch people are up to their lips, but this cabinet keeps pushing us over and over again. What is the Minister's answer? Education. Financial education and awareness. People need to learn how to save an apple for thirst. But if you're short every month, Minister, it's very difficult to save. The cabinet has for years been preventing us from being such a rich country in Europe, but we are not at all. So why are we transferring many billions to other countries? Why does this minister agree at all with a EUR 750 billion recovery fund, to which the Netherlands can contribute EUR 45 billion? Like we've got too much! Is that the new policy of the CDA? Finally. Can the Minister explain to all those people at home why Italy is getting a present under the Christmas tree of the Dutch taxpayer of no less than EUR 5 billion? It's a gift; they don't have to pay it back. Spain will receive 4.5 billion, France will receive 3 billion, Poland will receive 1.5 billion and Greece will receive 1 billion. A gift from those so-called rich Dutch people who are now destitute at home without work and without income and whose business had to close from this cabinet. And can he also explain once more why he is borrowing Italy another EUR 7.5 billion? This country can also borrow on the capital market, at any rate a negative interest rate. It is not the case that Italy does not have access to the capital market. They can issue a five-year bond at a negative interest rate. Why don't they? Why should they borrow it from the Commission and from us? I can't explain; maybe this minister can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Aukje de Vries from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My time isn't running yet; at least I don't see it running here. I hear they're working on it. Fine. Mr. Chairman. We live in unprecedented times, in which the Dutch economy and entrepreneurs got another huge thump last Monday. Unfortunately, it is necessary to control the virus, but it is a thump with far-reaching consequences. Entrepreneurs and many other people will feel the consequences of the economic downturn. Companies will go bankrupt. People will lose their jobs or income. Zzp'ers will no longer receive any or insufficient assignments. Mr. Chairman. So, although we are talking today about the Navy Note, much of my input will be focused on the corona crisis and its economic impact. 'Cause they're gonna get through to this Navy bill. That's the only thing that's for sure right now. Fortunately, the cabinet is not deaf to these concerns, but the VVD continues to drive the cabinet. Because if we want to grow again quickly after the crisis, then we will have to let our entrepreneurs stay out of the water now. I therefore ask the Cabinet and this Minister to confirm that they are doing what is necessary to support entrepreneurs in these difficult times. The minister told RTL yesterday that the aid will cost billions more. I would like confirmation from this Minister that any costs for him are no reason to withhold support from entrepreneurs. Otherwise, it could damage our economy for a long time to come. "The computer says no" must not be the answer. After all, our entrepreneurs did not ask for this. Mr. Chairman. We have made substantial support packages available to entrepreneurs and employees. In part, that has gone fast and fairly smoothly. As a VVD, we are also getting signals that it is failing here and there. What about the money for retraining, for example, about EUR 1.5 billion? Is it true that this will not be deployed until the second quarter of 2021? But also a little smaller. What about the money for the entrepreneurs of the brown fleet? The VVD asked written questions about this at the beginning of November, but they have not even been answered. It is important to get the money to the people and the entrepreneurs as soon as possible. We also hear signs of considerable recovery. Of course, we knew that was a risk. However, my group would like to know more about this. Because how does this work now? How does the cabinet prevent these recoverys from turning out to be the neck of entrepreneurs? We assume that the ministries concerned are dealing with this in a realistic and reasonable manner, so there is no unreasonable time limit for repayment of funds, which means that companies are still falling apart. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr. Chairman. A number of guarantee schemes for our SME entrepreneurs are actually being used only slowly. In particular, the Small Credits Corona Guarantee Scheme and the Entrepreneur Finance Schemes have relatively low utilisation rates, ranging from around 5% to 10%. What is the reason for this, and to what extent are these arrangements compatible with practice? Are our banks doing enough? And is communication all right? Mr. Chairman. My group chairman also said yesterday that we should look again at the ongoing support for entrepreneurs. Quite recently, a number of tax regimes have been decided to expire. These include, for example, the tax arrangements for travel expenses, the cost of work and the usual wage. This happened relatively recently in time, but in corona units it is miles away from us. How's the Minister looking at this now? Shouldn't these decisions be reconsidered? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My group also asks the Minister to look more closely at poignant cases, such as entrepreneurs who started just before the first lockdown and are excluded. For this purpose, the Cabinet has also created the TONK scheme, the Temporary Support Necessary Costs, but we wonder if that amount is still sufficient. How does the Minister view that? We assume that, depending on how long the lockdown lasts, there is also generous consideration of the tax payback moment. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr. Chairman. The budget balance in the Autumn note is still unprecedented, with minus 6.2%, even though a percentage point was better than expected in the Millions Note. The public debt is estimated at 57.4%. The economy has developed more positively in the summer and early autumn than expected. However, the estimates are surrounded by great uncertainty. The only thing we know after Monday is that the figures I just mentioned are no longer correct. Nevertheless, can the Minister give us a little more certainty about this uncertainty? Within what range does he expect the EMU balance and the EMU debt to end? And what are the expected effects of Monday's decision? Mr. Chairman. The VVD is willing to draw the wallet to keep the economy running as well as possible, but then the money must be spent properly and responsibly. It is important, therefore, that there will simply be an approval declaration for the annual reports by 2020. The Minister has so far been rather laconical about this: he cannot anticipate it. But it's really better to avoid this than to cure it. The Minister must have the place in order so that that approving statement will be made. What does he do about it and what has he done about it lately? There has been a great deal of use of the so-called emergency procedure for the corona measures, i.e. spending money rather than being decided by the House of Representatives. That is logical in principle in a crisis, but then too you have to do well, and that is not always the case. What agreements does the Minister of Finance have with the trade ministers on the use of the emergency procedure, on communication with the House of Representatives and on communication between ministries and finance? Mr. Chairman. Then there's a technical, but not unimportant issue. There is an in=terminal of 1.2 billion euros. It's still to be filled in by the Final Act. That is very short notice; it is already at the end of 2020. How's the minister gonna fill it out? And then it's another technical question, but that's not one without consequences. Yesterday, we received a letter from the Minister stating that, because of the care premium schemes which are now virtually everyone, additional money had to be found in order to close the income framework. The Minister indicated that he succeeded and that he is pleased with it. But I must honestly say that when we read the letter as a VVD, our thinking was above all: all the more reason to abandon this nonsense of care premium budget rule. This leads to increased costs, just when we are least able to use them, and smothers any future increase in purchasing power in the bud. I have asked the Minister many times, but will he finally admit that this budgetary arrangement is really at the end of her Latin? Can he reflect on the alternative of the Study Group on Budget Space? And when did the Minister know about this setback for the first time? Mr. Chairman. There are still exceedances at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State. The response looks at overprogramming. In view of the stimulation of the economy by raising investment in infrastructure, the VVD does not consider that to be the most logical. I do not really hear the Minister for Finance about getting a better grip on investment, because some projects have to do with significant overruns, such as the lock at IJmuiden and the Afsluitdijk. Part of this was a so-called DBFMO, or Design, Build, Finance, Maintain, Operate. There used to be an annual debate on this with the Minister of Finance. Can the Minister forward his views on DBFMO in the policy and implementation in a letter to the Chamber in January 2021? Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions about the solar panels. My colleague from the PVV mentioned this as well. If the Netherlands is finally right, can the Netherlands also see interest on the amount? Why has the Netherlands already transferred money, when it itself thinks this is necessary? Then why not wait for an answer? Why should the Netherlands pay interest at all if you do not transfer the money now, given the low interest rate? The case relates to the period 2015-2018. Why is there no problem in 2019 and 2020? When can we expect more clarity about the constructive dialogue with the European Commission? When will an unjustified enrichment procedure be launched against the European Commission? Finally, Mr President. Over the past year, the Dutch have shown resilience and perseverance. The fact that the economy hit the virus again, has done better than anyone expected, is thanks to all those hardworking Dutch and our entrepreneurs. Hopefully they can find that creativity, that resilience and that perseverance again this time and they can fight through this lockdown. Let's do that together with all the hardworking Dutch and our entrepreneurs. Let's stick to the rules. With entrepreneurial spirit and resilience we will get through this together again, and hopefully soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mrs De Vries of the VVD makes it an up-to-date debate on entrepreneurs who are currently struggling. I think that's right. I will say a few words about this later. On the subject of Mrs De Vries' contribution, I see reports about the Action, the Wibra and other chains that are opening up. What does Mrs De Vries think of this, also in view of what she has just said, namely that everyone must respect the rules properly? The local bookstore, the bikemaker and so on stay closed, and woe to your bones if they do anything, then the mayor is on the sidewalk. Can Mrs De Vries say something about that too? How's the VVD looking at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	I also believe that entrepreneurs should abide by the rules. If they have to be closed, they just have to close the doors, no matter how hard that is for them. Nor do I think they should look up the edges of the rules, so I would say to the Wibras and the Actions: just stick to the rules and close the doors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	At the beginning of her speech, Mrs De Vries of the VVD asked for a coulant attitude of the Tax Administration towards entrepreneurs at the time when the subordinated taxes or taxes that are still due have to be reimbursed. It is not quite clear to me whether this coulant attitude is just being asked about entrepreneurs or whether it is being asked about the people at home, about individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	I believe that we have agreed with each other that entrepreneurs can apply for tax deferrals. I think that we should also look at the question of exactly what is happening because of the corona crisis. We have all granted these entrepreneurs tax deferrals. If we are in such a crisis at the moment when they have to repay it, that is hardly possible and that she is still giving the neck blow, it would be very strange to do so. I'd say that's a bad thing. I do not believe that we have indeed arranged for a postponement of taxes for citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	My question wasn't about the delay. We've already talked about that. My question was about a generous arrangement when it has to be repaid. There are entrepreneurs who have to pay back taxes, but there are also individuals who have not been able to pay their taxes. Should the Tax Administration in this corona crisis also be supportive to the people at home who may get into trouble because they still have a tax debt, or does the VVD's coulant attitude only apply to entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	In my opinion, there can always be customisation and there can also be discussion with the Tax Administration about a refund scheme. If that's what it takes, I think it's a good thing that the IRS is talking to those people, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	The VVD points out the existing possibilities here, but of course it is striking what is happening here. In dealing with the Navy's note, an extra coulant attitude towards entrepreneurs is called for, which I understand, but if I then ask whether that extra coulant attitude that the VVD is asking for also applies to citizens, then there is talk about it first and then there is reference to the existing possibilities. Why is it so difficult to say: it is "like monks, equal hoods"; if there is a coulant handling of entrepreneurs, then also like a coulant attitude towards the people at home, who can also get into trouble? Why is that so hard for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	I watched the Prime Minister's press conference on Monday. Very drastic measures have been taken that are extremely hard hit by our business. I think some entrepreneurs feel like they're in a nightmare. Then I find it very strange to turn parties against each other. I have indeed talked about the entrepreneurs, but they have also had a terrible blow and I would hope that the SP will recognise that and stand up for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	Indeed, many entrepreneurs, many people in the middle class, have fallen into a nightmare thanks to the VVD. The crying story of the VVD "we have to deal with those people" and, of course, it doesn't make any sense if those people with their savings have to contribute a lot to this lockdown. The examples in the letter last week, for example, said that a pub boss has to pay €11,500 a quarter of his savings in order to make a living. With the coach operator that is €30,000. Does the VVD agree with the PVV that if we force these people to close their business, they should be reimbursed 100% for all their costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u14	Let me start by saying that no one asked for this virus; the VVD did not, the PVV did not, the entrepreneurs did not and the people in the country did not. But I do ask the cabinet to do so continuously, in my view, in order to look generously at the packages. We have also put in strong support packages; I believe that until Monday it was about EUR 40 billion to ensure that entrepreneurs can keep their heads above water as well as possible. In my contribution, I have also identified a number of issues in which I ask the Cabinet to continue to look at them in order to do what is necessary and not to deal with them too rigidly in the sense of: we have so agreed. Keep looking at what's needed over time. I understand that yesterday it was also stated that the cabinet will continue to monitor this closely, but I also asked the Minister a number of specific questions to hear how he sees it and what possibilities he sees for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u15	That is, of course, very vague: 'keep watching'. There are just entrepreneurs who are burdened with fixed costs and staff costs and who do not get paid for everything. The DGAs are also not compensated for their own income, because they are dga. A lot of companies with less reserves are going to have to fall apart and will soon have to close their doors because of this so-called generous policy of the VVD. Surely it is not so difficult to do that little bit extra to prevent companies from going bankrupt unnecessarily and that people are being made redundant unnecessarily thanks to this bankruptcy? Isn't it a shame if we all see businesses, restaurants and small businesses closing their doors and seeing people on the streets because we didn't give them the last mile, which was 10% or 20%, which forced them to close their doors? Doesn't the VVD agree with me? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u16	In my own opinion, I have indicated in my contribution that I believe that the cabinet should continue to look closely at, for example, the recovery, which may be necessary, but also at the reimbursement of taxes, and that it should also have reasonable arrangements for this. I also asked to look at a number of specific issues. I have mentioned, among other things, the usual wage, but also a number of other things in order for the cabinet to look into this. It is also a continuous line that we ask the cabinet to keep monitoring where what is needed. I asked the Minister the same question. So I would like to hear the Minister's answer: how does he view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u17	I agree with Mrs De Vries that there should be support for companies and I share her concern about this. I also commend her for the fact that she dares companies like Wibra, Action and so on to say that you should not behave like this in such a crisis. I myself have a lot of concerns about the vulnerable in society, for example homeless people, but also disadvantaged young people who are not able to go to school again. Is it also prepared to allocate extra resources if necessary and if those groups, which are already in trouble, are still getting into trouble? Does she support that plea, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u18	Yes, I think there have been other debates on this with other spokesmen in the specific committees to look into it and do what is necessary there too. For example, I have now specifically asked about the TONK scheme: is the budget for this now, which is really intended to provide a solution for people falling between shore and ship, enough, especially given what was announced on Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u19	The answer is, I think, well known. That money's not enough. This is true of the cultural sector, which was open again and which must now be closed again, and of course it is true of schools and childcare. They're supposed to stay open, but they're running out of people. This will therefore require additional support. I am glad that the VVD offers the opening to grant it as well. I'm going to hold her to that too, because these people are just as busy with their hands these days as the entrepreneurs are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u20	I always like the PvdA's conclusion. In my view, I asked the Minister very specifically whether the amount, for example for the TONK, would be sufficient. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether this budget is sufficient to support, for example, the necessary costs. In my opinion, the VVD and the cabinet have clearly indicated in the past period that they are looking into what is needed and have also been involved in this type of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr. Chairman. After a year of two corona waves and billions of support measures, it is inevitable that we now have a unique Navy note in front of us. Although the final budget deficit in 2020 compared to the very serious scenarios set out in the Spring Paper is still not so bad, the economic picture remains unbelievably bleak. Behind these macroeconomic figures are hundreds of thousands of people who were hit again last Monday. The second wave is not contained and the lockdown in front of us is no longer intelligent. I am thinking here of our young people, the people with non-essential contact professions and the people with zero-hour contracts, but also of the small entrepreneur. The buffers of these groups were often not large. This is also apparent from the recent cabinet letter. And again, they're gonna take the hits. Surely it can't be true that large chains like the Wibra, HEMA and Action will open again today, but small shops will remain closed? Then all the credibility of the policy is gone. I'd like a response. I found the VVD's comment rather firm. I am therefore curious about the reaction of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The Minister knows that GroenLinks would like more income protection, especially for people who work flex and who have little social security. For example, the deletion of the partner test in the scheme forzzp'ers is a permanent wish of my party. It is a good thing that the cabinet reserves 130 million for special assistance with the new TONK scheme. The question is whether that is enough. Can the Minister make every effort to make this available as soon as possible? Because we're getting signals from municipalities that this certainly doesn't mean that there's no time to lose because of the lockdown. I'd like a response. Then there is a specific issue on development advice, career advice. The budget was up in August. At the request of GroenLinks, the window opened again in December, but within one day the budget was exhausted again. It is precisely the fact that society is now in great demand that should encourage us as politicians to do more to meet this urgent need. I ask the Minister if he can make an extra budget available for this. Mr. Chairman. I have a paradoxical feeling when I look at this Navy note, because although the urgency of the economic and social issues is enormous, public finances actually show a very relaxed picture. Even if the economic scenarios in the coming years will have to be adjusted much further downwards, we are still in a large no-man's-land in the field of public debt before we really get into trouble. The fact that we are a sparing country may be a good thing for us in this case, but that good economy is just as often a dogma in the Netherlands. Frankly, that is precisely why I was surprised by the Minister's letter on future European budgetary rules. I got angry last year about the cabinet attitude on this point. At that time the dogmas seemed to have already formulated the answers, even before a discussion started. But now there seems to be more room for an open dialogue, including at European level, on reducing often complex and sometimes stupid rules on promoting public investment. I was wondering how strongly the cabinet wants to focus on what some call "the Golden Green Rule." This means that additional investment space in Europe's public finances should also allow for green investment. And can the green tax also play a role in the implementation? I'd like a response. The space for smart investment also arises when we broaden our eyes in our own country. I am thinking of the growth fund, which is a good commitment of the cabinet, even after adjustments in consultation with the opposition. But the point is also wider. After all, in a low-interest environment, structural austerity costs us money. I would therefore also like to thank the Minister for his letter on discount rates, which was a motion from Mr Bruins and myself, and I would like to hear when the officials of Finance, the Central Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank send their further reflections to the Chamber. And can the Minister assure me that these reflections not only focus on future anchors, say the long term, but also on the transition from this crisis to a sustainable climate-neutral economy? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. As you know, I attach great importance to the information position of the Chamber and to the clarity of policy intentions in terms of effectiveness and effectiveness. In this respect, it is uncomfortable to see that Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act has been applied more or less in step, and that the review framework for risk schemes for the guarantees has often not been properly completed or sent to the Chamber too late. It's nice that the Minister takes these matters seriously. Can he give us the same kind of overview in the Spring Paper 2021? After all, I would also like to know what his efforts in the cabinet are going to be. And can he talk to his colleagues not only about sending in on time, but also about properly completing the risk assessment framework? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, within the issue of legality, I would also like to draw attention to Article 4.7 of the Compatibility Act. Because where the crisis is, it is sometimes inevitable that the Chamber should be kept confidential. The way in which this should be done clearly continues to lead to differences of interpretation, in particular between the General Court and the Minister, with possible problems of legality as a result. What is the Minister going to do to remove the uncertainty that now exists about 4.7 Cw? Here too we would like a reaction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u23	Thank you. Mr Slootweg of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The lockdown is chasing. The corona virus has a major impact on health and a huge economic impact. And fight it, we'll have to do it together. I would like to ask some sensible questions on the basis of the Navy's note, which could provide people with perspective and hope. These words 'hope' and 'perspective' sound empty when I think of the people who will lose their jobs because of these measures or see their business go bankrupt. And yes, I support these measures because, if we don't take them, it could become even more disruptive. That's what we have to try to prevent. Mr. Chairman. The Autumn note gives an overview of the impact of this year's budget on the information we had at the time of the Millions Note. And normally you have a good view of what happens to the stand of mid-November, but that is different now. The coming period, the lockdown, will have an impact on revenue and expenditure, and it can only be that the expected income is now falling short of the Millions note, and that more expenditure will also be made on the other hand. Let me start with government revenue. Much of the income in relation to the Millions note, such as corporation tax and income tax, may still change. However, I would like to pick out a few remarkable things, which I do not know is the case there. For what are the reasons why the landlord's tax and the tax on the environmental base are not so bad, and are these windfalls structural or expected to be more incidental? Then there is expenditure, and first of all investment expenditure. The agreement is that departments can take 1% to the next year. Under normal circumstances, this is also a good policy, because it creates pressure for expenditure to be spent in the year for which it is intended. And before, the CDA Group has called for a budget-by-budget distinction between investment expenditure, public consumption and transfer expenditure. Investment expenditure is particularly important in order to grow as an economy after the pandemic. However, the fact that Corona did not allow investment to take place and that it might not be possible to include it would be a pity. Does the Cabinet agree with the CDA that in times of crisis you must prevent investment from falling because it cannot be carried out in the year in which they are budgeted? We also read that spending on infrastructure and water resources was higher and thus led to a rethink of overprogramming. Can the Minister explain how the calculations in the field of IenW can be carried out more clearly and accurately in the future, so that they can be better planned? Secondly, Mr President. Can a failure now be a harbinger of an overrun later? I want to make that clear on the basis of two windfalls. In primary and secondary education there were small windfalls. My group, I think, is getting more and more signals that many pupils, especially from vulnerable groups, have been lagging behind, which is why my colleague Rog is calling for catch-up programmes on a weekly basis. Now that the extent of these delays is becoming increasingly clear, perhaps the schools need to do a little more. What is the nature of under-exhaustment in primary and secondary education? Is this windfall structural? Or does it mean that we will see additional expenditure in 2021, because there is a lot to be added or there are a lot of students left? Then there is an even greater underdog in the partial ceiling care care. That's actually really weird. We've got a pandemic, but there's a bit of a windfall there. In the Millions note, we already saw that there was underexhaustment. This one's gotten even bigger. The most important explanation is that expenditure is not covered by the Health Insurance Act. On the other hand, we also read about a huge uncertainty about the care to be made up and its costs in 2021. When will this be clear? For example, do we have a kind of provision "to catch up regular care" on the budget? And perhaps a little more global: could the Minister give an overall overview of all the major shifts to next year and how this happens? The third point I would like to highlight is the notable figures for unemployment and assistance, which are the result of the NOW scheme. At some point, government measures will be phased out. It is almost impossible to say that there will be more bankruptcies and unemployment will rise. My group wants everything to be done to ensure that the period between jobs is as short as possible for people. In the third aid package, 1.4 billion has been made available for retraining and further training. I have heard that 10,000 development advice has already been given. My group's concern is whether the more vulnerable in the labour market will be reached. Does the Cabinet monitor who benefits from the scheme? What contribution do RCs, colleges, in-house vocational schools and training companies make to this re-training and further training? Mr. Chairman. Then there is my fourth point. Mr Van Dijck and Mrs De Vries also mentioned the dispute with the European Commission on solar panels: an interest rate of 300 million, almost half of the import duties to be paid on solar panels from China via Taiwan. We read that the claim interest rate could have increased in this way because the imports had already been in 2015, while the Commission did not make its finding until 2019. Since 2016, the interest rate is up to 16% per year. Isn't this an excessive interest rate? Is it true that these solar panels have been transferred to Germany, for example? How reasonable is it then for the Dutch taxpayer to pay for this? Are there any other options? My fifth point concerns guarantees. Even before the corona pandemic, Mr Van der Linde and I have already drawn attention to the level of guarantees. A guarantee doesn't have to be an immediate problem, but as you provide more guarantees, you'll also have to write off more often. Nor is one guarantee the other. One guarantee involves much more risk. As a result, there is a much greater chance that there will have to be written off. Usually there is a certain premium paid under many schemes, which means that non-compliance with agreements can be covered by the premium. We read in the answer to the actual questions that both the premium and any deposit is paid by a department into a risk provision. That provision shall then remain available for expenditure arising from the risk regime for a multiannual period. But what exactly is meant by a deposit by a department? What part of the outstanding risk is usually in the provision? The Minister states that if the full scope of guarantees were used, the expenditure would be difficult to quantify. But can the Minister give us a rough estimate, so we know what order of magnitude to think? Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that we have received this overview of guarantees, but in addition to guarantees, the cabinet also provides loans. Also for loans, as a government, you can run the risk of not being repaid. But unlike guarantees, the Navy Note does not contain a multiannual overview of all loans granted by the Empire. Is it not wise to add such an overview in the context of Parliament's understanding of the risk we face? Mr President, I will conclude. The crisis can only be dealt with together. Fortunately, we can also count on the support of a government, partly through the prudent fiscal policies of recent years. Let us also continue to act prudently towards the future, because future generations must also be given perspective. It is precisely for them that we need to realise that the financial resolution of this crisis is something we will have to do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u25	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is difficult in our country, of course especially in the families of the victims, in the hospitals that are now working overtime again and in the nursing homes that have, of course, been hit so hard. On top of that, however, the corona measures needed to defeat the virus will also result in an unprecedented economic contraction. Even though the economic impact has so far been less severe than thought for the state treasury and the macro-economy, for many self-employed, temporary workers and small entrepreneurs, that blow is already harsh. With broad support in this Chamber, the cabinet rightly pursues a generous policy. It provides financial support and delay payment of taxes. Hundreds of thousands of people are getting around thanks to the government. If you look at the corona account on the General Court's website, you will see how strong this support is and how important it is to have a well-functioning government on which you can rely in difficult times. But does that government function equally well and equally honestly for everyone? Because, on the one hand, there are restrictions on consumption because there is a lot of denseness and, on the other hand, support measures, people with fixed contracts and stable jobs have been able to save even more in this crisis than usual. At the same time, self-employed, temporary workers and young people have been hit more economically by the corona crisis than the rest. This affects those who did not already have tens of thousands of euros on their banks. For example, self-employed workers, compared to employees, still have a four-fold higher risk of financial problems within three months of their income drop. They often get into trouble within three months. Self-employed, temporary workers and young people have never had a fair chance to save, to build a healthy buffer. They are also the people for whom the least has been arranged. And if they also don't have an ancient Dutch surname, they might even be extra watched by the government and examined with suspicion by the Tax Administration, the same Tax Administration that is now so generous with companies that are not able to pay taxes. Anyone who thinks this is unfair is, of course, right. Compensation for all victims of the premium affair is a crucial condition for restoring trust in the fair government, which should be there for everyone. All these excuses and promises were important, but there must also be delivered. Unfortunately, however, there is still far too little delivery. 200 million was reserved for this year to compensate for the loss of parents. That's only $18 million, Mr. Chairman, $18 million. This year, therefore, less than ten cents have been paid out of every euro of promised compensation. That includes the allowance for the Christmas days that came on our initiative, thanks to the SP, otherwise only five cents of every promised euro had actually been paid in compensation. What does the Minister himself think of this? Does he feel partly responsible for this delay? How will he prevent further delay in the future? But it gets worse, because while the promised compensation has been substantially adjusted downwards, from 200 first to 150 and finally to 18 million, so-called equipment costs have now been adjusted upwards, from 35 million to 46 million. This year, therefore, EUR 18 million is being paid to parents and EUR 46 million has been spent by the government in order to achieve this. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. How can it be explained to the Netherlands that almost three times as much money is spent on the organisation as on the duped parents themselves? I would therefore like to know exactly what these 11 million additional equipment costs were for and what part of the equipment costs is for external hire. The cabinet should really be ashamed of spending more money on consultants, on lawyers and on civil servants than on the victims of the Tax Office itself. Mr. Chairman. Expenditure on the healthcare bonus is also EUR 800 million higher than expected this year. A logical expectation is, of course, that expenditure will also be higher next year. I therefore assume that extra money will be made available for the healthcare bonus in 2021. I ask the Minister to say that this is covered in the Spring Note. I cannot imagine from the cabinet that our caregivers, who are now back on the front line, will be working so hard for our health and earn a fair reward, get a lower bonus next year, or that fewer people will get a bonus to stay within the financial frameworks. So please confirm from the cabinet that this isn't going to happen and that there's just extra money coming in. In education there is money left, almost 100 million, and also in education attempts to repair SP which the cabinet does not succeed, namely the teacher grant. A beautiful tool that allows teachers to work on professionalisation and to get even better in their vital profession. In the spring thousands of applications were rejected because the money was exhausted and in the spring note we tried to fix this, in the budget we tried to do so, and we are now trying again with the Autumn note. We propose to add a one-off 33.2 million from the windfalls in the Education budget through the end-of-year margin to the item for the teacher's fair next year. This makes it possible to still award the rejected teacher grants. What can be against this, I ask the Minister. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Teachers, caregivers, dispensers and cleaners, they keep our country running in this crisis. They deserve fair treatment. They deserve an honest reward and they deserve an honest government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Sneller from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u28	Mr. Chairman. In December it is always good to take stock, the Minister said in a year-end interview. And so it is, because this December the last budgetary note of this minister will be dealt with in missionary status during this period. So I'd like to take his advice to take stock of that and pass on some important values for a finance minister. I have been given infinite speaking time, and that is good for this debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u29	Don't ask how, but take advantage of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u30	I will, Mr. Chairman. You shouldn't say that to a Finance spokesman too often. I go by a number of important values for the Minister of Finance: robustness, care and legality, clarity and transparency. Let me begin with this solidity, the future stability of the budget. According to the latest estimates, and yes, which are before Monday, even after the biggest crisis since the Second World War, we do not exceed 60% of public debt. That shows how much public debt has been repaid in recent years. The Treasury was, of course, helped by the planned but unmade investments of the Ministers of Infrastructure and Defence. I believe that this Minister calls this a gift in the category 'not asked yet'. Can you check, if the minister had sold ABN's shares 10 billion euros an hour ago, I'll say. Anyway, if we look beyond 2025, there's a shelf life deficit. In his first General Financial Reviews, more than three years ago, the debate between the Minister and this Chamber was also about an important cause of this, namely the rising cost of care. We are still waiting for the WRR opinion requested by the Chamber at the time. At the beginning of this year it seemed as if the minister himself would pick up the gauntlet, when he again took up this discussion in an interview. After that, unfortunately, it remained quiet. As far as I'm concerned, it's a missed opportunity. In the last medium-term forecast, healthcare expenditure continued to increase at the end of the next cabinet period: €12.9 billion per year. That's more than the total defence budget to additional healthcare expenditure. This challenge, with the opinion of the Study Group on Budget Space in hand, is being passed on to the next cabinet. I would like to invite the Minister to share his conclusions with the Chamber when he takes stock of this discussion. The minister rightly continued in that year-end interview that the money he spends is not his, but is earned by Dutch people and that it is his job to deal with that well. As guardian of the Compatibility Act, Mr Snels already referred to "Snels', he is indeed the first to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent lawfully and carefully. Of course, this is not an easy task if we have to act quickly in a crisis. At least in the beginning, therefore, Parliament had a great deal of understanding for virtually ignoring Article 3.1. of the Compatibility Act. The cabinet's proposals contain few concrete goals and even less arguments about effectiveness and efficiency. Also the frequent use of the exception to Article 2.27. of the Compatibility Act, which provides that the cabinet may not actually spend tax money until the parliament has approved it, was this minister hardly charged. But his promise and our expectation was that we would see more justification and fewer exceptions in the later stages of the crisis. But when I read in the Review in the Autumn note about 50 incidental supplementary budgets and other budgetary adjustments, I see that the call on 2.27, as time progressed, has been reduced rather than decreased. Does the Minister agree with me that it is difficult to qualify this as'very reluctant', as he promised? How does the Minister explain this and what has he done to turn the tide? When I read the many comments on legality in the Navy's note, I was reminded of the same idea as that of Mrs De Vries. Surely it is not the case that we are not going to get a positive statement for the first time in decades? My question to the Minister is: does he have any clues? What is his assessment, for example on the basis of the ADR reports so far? Also, people who are careful by the Minister of Finance expect to spend taxpayers' money when it comes to external hiring and compliance with agreements on this matter. Mr Alkaya did not mention him, but I expected him to mention the Roemer norm: no more than 10%. I also mention the De Pater motion, which provides for a maximum rate for external hire of €225 per hour. On page 54 you will find it: both appointments are not fulfilled. Can the Minister explain the extent of the overruns in both cases and what he has done to prevent these exceedances? What concrete steps will he take to prevent repetition, with the ADR report of March this year on the financial function in hand? A striking post in the Autumn note is the healthcare bonus, which has already been mentioned. We have wholeheartedly supported it, but the question to the Minister of Finance is whether the costs of it could and should not have been assessed more carefully in advance. The first time it was promised was 800 million by 2020. After an intermediate step of 1.4 billion, the counter stands at 2.2 billion for this year. Does the Minister also consider that this does not deserve the due diligence prize and what was his role in estimating and controlling the costs of this promise? Some other ministers are watching jealously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u31	It is right that Mr Sneller says that the healthcare bonus is actually not properly estimated. For next year it is also in the books, in two ways lower than this year. This year all healthcare workers will receive €1,000 and next year half: €500. The cabinet swims in the same trap again, because it will go wrong again when bordering it. Does Mr Sneller agree with me, given the enormous pressure that Corona is going to put on the worry again, that this bonus should be €1,000 again next year and should go to the same group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u32	Not in advance. I'd like to hear from this minister how he looks at that demarcation. I believe that we must ensure that it reaches the people who deserve it in that sense at least. I believe that Mr Nijboer agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u33	Yeah, but that would mean that now all people get money that doesn't deserve it. For example, youth care didn't request it, because it thought: well, maybe we get... Those people have also had a huge pressure from the corona crisis, really huge. So I think everyone who works in care, whether you're a cleaner or a security guard, whether you're on the ICU bed or working around it, deserves an extra appreciation. I think it's kind of weird that the cabinet wanted to make that distinction. That didn't work out for this year either. But now they want to go through with it again next year. That's not what D66 wants, is it? Or does D66 want to announce this again? Does D66 want those fights in those hospitals and nursing homes and those crooked faces in those hospitals again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u34	It is precisely in order to prevent this, I say to Mr Nijboer, that I think it is not necessary for some medical specialists, for example, who really do not need that bonus and have sometimes given less care, that they should be entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u35	Medical specialists are already not entitled to it, so it is just nonsense what Mr Sneller says. It's income-limited. So it is precisely the people who do not make so much money and who are helping us enormously through this crisis in the care, for whom it is super heavy and who also put their own lives at risk... That may be strong, but they can get corona. They're getting close to patients. For them, the cabinet wanted to do something. In addition, they have made a very clumsy distinction in different groups. Endless whining. They said, "I can't do it this year." And now they're gonna do it again next year. That's weird, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u36	Then I am glad that we agree that at least it is not all people in the care. And then I share Mr Nijboer's assessment that we need to ensure that it reaches those people he describes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u37	But just as sharp: does D66 think that this year it has ended up with all those who didn't really deserve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr Alkaya did not hear me say that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u39	It's a logical consequence of what D66 says. This year more money has been paid than budgeted, than has been taken into account. We ask that this line be extended to next year. Of that D66 says: no, we're not going to do that, but it should only go to those people who really deserve it, who really deserve it. Then the logical conclusion is that this year, apparently according to D66, many people got that money, that health bonus, whereas according to D66 they didn't actually deserve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u40	No. I don't know... In this respect, Mr Alkaya is much better placed in the commas and details of the health bonus. I think there is a difference between who is entitled to it and who actually got it. Let's make sure that by next year at least the people who are entitled to it are the group we both mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u41	Finally, very briefly. Can we then conclude that the people who received that healthcare bonus this year have just earned it and that they should get it again next year, without prejudice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u42	Well, "it" should get... I think we've agreed on a health bonus that has a slightly different height. Mr. Chairman. I was at the deadline and the clarity and transparency of the budget. The Minister has applied at least five different ways of shifting money to subsequent years; Mr Slootweg has already referred to this. It is not always clear which method is used when, while there are substantial amounts of money involved. For example, in recent years I have asked for attention to be paid to dealing with the so-called in=terminal. In principle, this is a good tool to prevent us from imposing a lot of restrictions on ourselves first, but ultimately not getting the money spent. In the final act, however, the windfalls sometimes turned out to be up to 5.2 billion.I mentioned them for a while without being able to use them elsewhere. It is wise that this in=terminal is at least not fully completed by autumn note this time. However, we are already seeing EUR 1.3 billion in under-exhaustment, especially in posts that move on to next year. More generally, the list of deviations from the budgetary rules of the Study Group on Budgets is very long. The recommendations often contain, at the core, the re-affirmation of the importance of the previous agreements. My question to the Minister is: what would he advise his successor to comply with these recommendations this time? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the balance sheet in the management and administrative culture of the Ministry of Finance. At the beginning of this year, the Minister announced with his split letter the cultural change at the Tax Office that his colleagues in the department are now working hard on. But when I take the culture report from the ADR, I read that there are also serious challenges for the core department. For example, as the ADR writes, the hard, deeply rooted unwritten rules such as: don't get the rulers in trouble; don't be too critical on colleagues; use incidents. According to the researchers, this does not mean that finance is looking for deeper causes of problems and that there is no contact with each other if something is going on. I ask the Minister how he sees these findings rhyme with the core values of Operation Understanding Quality? Does he recognize that image of the ADR? And what did he do to improve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u43	Very well, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr. Chairman. It's possible. When I was allowed to do these financial debates about seven or eight years ago, in the midst of the financial world crisis and the European crisis, I did not expect to be standing here right now in the middle of a pandemic in which people have to be helped in hospitals, in which people in nursing institutions fight for their lives, in which we have taken away everyone's freedoms and schools and companies are closed down. I didn't expect us to have the debate on that right now. But it is. That's what you see in this Navy note, and that's what you can see. The cabinet has made a lot of packages to support different sectors. You always see things go well with that. The main thrust of support also supports the PvdA Group. But you always see things go wrong. This is what we see today at Action and Wibra, which still open up for a while, unlike the small entrepreneur. That's what I'm disgusting about. If you walk out of the Chamber Building, you will see the sticky cats on the windows of entrepreneurs that say: we are closed, thanks to... It's some kind of action out of hopelessness, where those cafes and restaurants that don't survive anymore cry out for help. And that now applies to many more entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that you cannot set up such a scheme in one go, but there are also companies that are really taking advantage of it. Let me give you an example of the payroll companies. A new law has been created to counter the uncertainty people have with the work. That's what I was supposed to do. Those companies are therefore making less turnover and that was also foreseen. And that party of the payroll companies is now one of the buyers of that NOW scheme. There are many tens of millions involved. I'm asking the Cabinet to do something about that. I made an amendment. This is all quite complicated in legal terms, so I can imagine that it cannot be reversed retroactively, but I actually think you should intervene if you see that happening. I ask the cabinet to make proposals for this, or else I will make these proposals myself. Earlier this year there was Booking.com, and now those payroll companies are the big winner. We have to prevent that. The second point I am very concerned about is unemployment, which is going to rise. We now have the least bankruptcies in times, but that is partly because we continue to give companies a delay in payment. But the debts of course run up, and in the long run the soil is in sight. Unemployment will therefore also increase. The PvdA Group has made a very strong commitment to a job guarantee. Try making agreements with employers. We know that transport, and certainly air transport, is shrinking. We know the travel sector is shrinking. Try to agree with employers that if there is a shrinkage, the workers from those shrinking sectors will come to work as much as possible in sectors where there is work. I just need to remind the test streets this summer. That wasn't exactly in order. And I'm afraid that vaccination program isn't exactly in order either. It really takes people and I'm not quite sure that it worked. Why aren't there many of these programmes that the government is setting up to lead people who are threatened with unemployment to such jobs? 'Cause it's a hell of a mess when unemployment happens to you. And it really happens to people now, so I call on the Cabinet to do more about it. A third point concerns the health bonus. I would not even like to mention it as a point of criticism; it is more a suggestion to make policy better. We already saw it, but we now know for sure that in the care the workload will be immense in the coming year. Even if with that lockdown it all gets a little less and we get a little more freedom, the pressure on hospitals, the nursing homes, the care staff remains immense. This also applies to home care, where people have to be helped every day by the bed, where the people who do are afraid that they will pass on the virus, because of course they also have a home and children. That's a lot of pressure. As a token of the appreciation of society, I think it is good to give them a financial appreciation, because the people in care are not the best paid. The medical specialists won't even get it. What does the Cabinet do? That opts for a somewhat kneel line of: they'll get something next year, so we'll give them half, so this year €1,000 and next year €500. I would say: just keep that at €1,000, because the pressure is at least this big and it also lasts longer and longer. And the cabinet makes the group smaller again, while it failed this year. As Mr Sneller said, it was a total failure. Hospitals have to decide who gets the money and who doesn't. They're absolutely right that they're not gonna decide that, because then it's a total ball in your hospital, your nursing home or the home care facility. And now the cabinet wants to do it again. I'm asking the Cabinet to make money available for that. My final point. In an interruption to Mrs De Vries of the VVD, I said: pay particular attention to the vulnerable. I think it is right that the VVD believes that companies, including the smaller ones, should be fully supported. Actually, the whole room thinks so, and so does the PvdA. But I'm really worried about people with a language or learning disadvantage, people who are in a situation at home that nobody wants to be in and who aren't going anywhere anymore, people who are sitting in a house with four, five, six people who aren't actually living in this time anymore, but who are stuck up there. I ask the cabinet to pay particular attention to this, and I ask the Minister to say the same. Mr. Chairman. I have no idea how much time I have left,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u45	We have you at the moment at five and a half minutes. Can't you see anything on the bell?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u46	No, there's nothing on there. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But it is useful to know how much time I have left, otherwise you will break me down halfway through a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you for your flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u48	In addition to the corona issues, the problems in society that we would otherwise discuss also deserve attention: the educational scores that are deteriorating in the Netherlands, while that is the most important thing for our economy and the housing shortage that is really not gone now that corona is there. In fact, people notice it every day. Together with GroenLinks, we have adjusted the proposals a little bit and they have also gotten better. They are not bad enough to vote against the budget now, but it is, of course, still far too little to solve the housing shortage. And the rising unemployment. All these themes also require permanent attention and they should not be snowed under in the corona crisis packages, because that education that is heating backwards, we will suffer from this in the coming decades, especially now that fewer and fewer children are going to school. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Bruins, from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr. Chairman. There is a joke that reads: the only function of economists is to make astrology respectable. That's how bad economists would be at predicting. But good economists, of course, know the relativeity of their models. If there is one moment in the political year where each time it appears how relative that value is, then it is in the Navy's note. We probably saw the figures in this Navy note a year ago as the blackest doom scenario, but compared to last Princess Day we count our blessings again. It can be quick. This is not a criticism of economists, civil servants or model makers, but, of course, much more a reflection on our own cramped retention of makeability thinking: the political absoluteisation of uncertain predictions of our excellent planning agencies. Crazy enough, it's going pretty well, or rather: it's not going as bad as we thought when we look at the tax and premium receipts, or at the public debt rising less than expected, or at the health expenses that are not as bad as we thought, counter-intuitively with a pandemic. Yet since Monday all expectations can already be in the round archive, and with that also actually this Najaarsnota. What can we say about the state's finances? All windfalls and perks do not mask the risks that exist, for example with regard to the loans granted. The Court's report is clear on the risks of guarantees and loans. Precisely because these major risks involve additional expenditure, the Cabinet is bound by strict rules and review frameworks and a no-unless. The outstanding risks again rise almost to the highest level at the time of the credit crisis and the cabinet estimates that these risks lead to 2.6 billion in expenditure. This merely underlines the need for better compliance with the rules of the game and for better understanding of the risks and the damage to be expected. The Court of Auditors is clear about this: in view of the need to keep an eye on risks and the lack of a reserve to cover them, it is important that Parliament is better informed annually about the expected damage and how it is covered. The Minister was initially reluctant to respond to these recommendations. How can we better identify the risks of lending now? Mr. Chairman. Banks also play an important role in this. They have 1,900 billion in loans and we have very little idea of the risks. The many state aid measures make it more difficult to estimate how much of this 1,900 billion has already been lost. In addition, the many deferred payments to banks are already up to 3 billion and the ECB warns that banks may not fully feel the effects of the crisis until 2022. The Dutch Bank has already called on the banks to clearly identify the corona risks. The warning was clear: "A lesson from the financial crisis is that slow recognition and handling of high amounts of loans with payment problems hampers economic recovery." Let's face it, debts don't come until you acknowledge them. Does the Minister therefore wish to comment on the position of the banks, on the risks they are currently facing and on the lack of understanding about them? How does he prevent ostrich politics? Mr. Chairman. The import levies and the solar panels have already been mentioned, so I'll skip them. Then I'll get to the discount foot. Following the Bruins/Speed motion on discount rate, productivity growth and sustainability balance, I have the following questions. A more or less automatic review is provided for the discount rate when the long-term interest rate differs by more than 1%. Are similar reviews foreseen in the event of other major changes, such as strong climate adaptation or economic growth? Secondly, at what point and under what circumstances is the discount rate used by the CPB for the calculation of the shelf life balance adjusted? Are there criteria for this, or are there criteria for it? Thirdly, the discount rate used for cost-benefit analyses is now a quarter point lower than the discount rate used by the CPB for analysis of the sustainability balance. The same percentage has been maintained for both in recent years. Can the Minister explain this difference? How do we deal with this in the future? Fourthly, in what time does the Minister expect a result of the joint effort of the Ministry of Finance, the Central Planning Bureau, De Nederlandsche Bank and relevant departments to be able to say more about the conceptual design of the sustainability balance, as a long-term anchor for fiscal policy? Finally, Mr President. Does the Minister have scenarios that provide insight into the possible number of deferred bankruptcies to be expected next year and their impact on unemployment rates and lost tax revenues? I would very much like to see an analysis of this and ask at what time the Minister could send such an analysis to the Chamber. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Stoffer of the political group of the Reformed Party. Then we have Mr Van Otterloo and then I'm going to suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr. Chairman. I cannot imagine that the budgets have ever changed as much as in 2020. The Navy's note adds a little bit more to that. However, as my colleague Mr Bruins has just pointed out, it may also be possible to do so again in the round archive because of all the corona developments that have taken place in recent days. The announced lockdown will have a major impact on many entrepreneurs and probably also on the costs of the support measures. We have to note that, fortunately, the current support package is still satisfactory for many entrepreneurs, despite the lockdown, but I am, as many colleagues have said, very concerned about entrepreneurs who are out of business. You'll only bezzp'er with a company at home, and therefore don't receive a TVL, or as an entrepreneur just started this year. Or you could be in the travel business and just have no perspective in the next few months. As a boy from an entrepreneurial family, I am also thinking of all those small entrepreneurs, those local bookshops, the restaurants, the bike makers and the clothing stores that bought the party collection, but they just can't get rid of it now. Then I'm thinking about all those families that are behind it, who will be sitting at the kitchen table for the next Christmas. It just makes you despondent. Entrepreneurs see their business slipping through their fingers and see their life's work slip away. Mr. Chairman. There was a thought jumping on me last night. In church you have a nice solution for that. If it really doesn't work anymore and there's nowhere to go, you've got the diacony. If you are in a shortage of money, for example because you have lost your job, or your company just goes completely wrong, you can receive a small financial contribution via the diacony to stay on top. That money was simply raised by the members of the church. That's how you help each other. But I think a lot of entrepreneurs I just appointed aren't members of a church. So I just had a thought. In these times, we do unusual things. Wouldn't the minister be willing to fill some kind of diaconal pot? In that case, entrepreneurs who for all kinds of reasons are wrongly excluded from all arrangements can still get a small contribution from them. Then perhaps you can give entrepreneurs just that support they need to save their business and spend the next Christmas with their families perhaps a little less despondent sitting at the kitchen table. Mr. Chairman. I'll just make a proposal for cover right away. Because I saw on pages 97 and 98 of the Autumn note that there is a strong underexhaustment in the concession for agricultural and horticultural entrepreneurs. That goes back to the general funds. Perhaps that could be a cover, but I'm also in for any other cover. I would very much like a response from the Minister. Let me be honest: it is really a serious proposal to meet those entrepreneurs who are out of everything. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say one thing. Last night was the Corona debate. It has been promised that Secretary of State Keijzer will talk to entrepreneurs. I would very much like to see the results of this shared with this committee in a letter. I'd like a commitment to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point. Last week a letter was sent containing the work of my group chairman, Mr Van der Staaij, on the motion for a resolution. That motion calls for scenarios to bring down the state debt. The Minister states in that letter that the debt will remain below 60% between 2021 and 2026 and that therefore those scenarios are not necessary. I would like to congratulate the Minister on his optimism, but given the developments in recent days, I would also like to dampen that enthusiasm. We have to be realistic. When I see the CPB's November estimate, public debt is estimated at 63.6% of GDP if the epidemic is not rapidly under control, and that seems to be the case. I thought that we were on the right track and that the impact of the crisis on public finances was increasingly being addressed, but I have a little doubt about that. Because there is no prospect of a lower government debt in the longer term. No scenarios are outlined to reduce that debt in the longer term. I'm just saying, to the new CDA list leader, rule is forward-looking. So in that respect, my question is: is the Minister prepared to do so? The CPB's estimates are simply uncertain. That is why I have the question of whether the Minister agrees with me that it is simply important to reflect those scenarios in order to reduce the debt ratio. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European budget rules. The Minister seems to be somewhat stricter at European level than in the Netherlands. As a SGP, of course, we very much welcome that. But there are other Member States that want to relax or let go of the budgetary rules as much as possible. From the letter of reflection on the SGP, I would point out that the Minister is much more rigorous in dealing with it. I'd like a reflection on that, too. Mr. Chairman. There are two specific points. The first is the dispute over the solar panels. I have a lot of questions about that, but they have already been asked by colleagues. But it's about a lot of money. I would also like to reflect on this, but above all on how to prevent us from getting any more of these things in the future. Then I had another point about the deadline, but I only have seven seconds left, so in that respect I also agree with the questions put by Mr De Vries of the VVD: how are we going to do that and what risks are there? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u53	Very good. Thank you. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Otterloo, from the 50PLUS group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a lot different than expected this year. I can agree with many of the previous speakers who have made comments about the imbalances in the labour market which affect certain groups in society much harder than others. There's a lot different, but some things are the same. If you look at the purchasing power of older people, the predicted purchasing power improvements, the ozb, the sewer tax, the rents, the abolition of the Hills Act, then you must note that some of those predicted improvements have not been realised and that it is "business as usual." This means that there is a deterioration. What is also the same as last year, but unfortunately due to the corona crisis, is the windfall in the AOW, which is reported here. I have a few more questions about that. I understand that a report from the CBS on the consequences of this is coming out in December. It's mid-December, so it's a question of whether it's going to be a Christmas report, but that aside. Last year we had a windfall due to 10,000 flu deaths, due to excess mortality from flu. This year the windfall is a little bigger, but I think it is of a very different nature. Indeed, the average age of people who have died is significantly lower than in the influenza epidemic of 2017/2018. This means that looking at what the costs of the AOW will be in the future also looks very different. I hope that the CBS, with its prognosis, really looks at the Dutch figures and that it doesn't say as it did then: health care in the neighbouring countries is just as good as that in the Netherlands, so we keep the other mortality rates. We are dealing with the Dutch situation. So I hope for a real reset of the forecasts, no matter how painful it will be to have to acknowledge that we are not in the right position when it comes to our life expectancy. I would also like to see the second and third pillars covered by this review. That sounds a bit abstract, but it is about pensions and capital insurance. These are also affected by the change in the composition of the AOW and pension beneficiaries. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my second point. At this time of corona, you would expect the cost of e-health to have exploded. The opposite is the case: there is money left. This is a reason for us to draw attention to the following. Last night this was also about children in education who cannot get all the resources. We believe that this applies to the whole of society. Our question is therefore whether this money can be spent through municipalities to help people with a narrow wallet and to take many elderly people out of their isolation, where that is at issue. Fortunately, we are a country in which older people are still fairly digitally connected, but there are also groups for which this is not possible. We would like that money to be spent on iPads, iPhones and the like. It may also be of another brand, I would add, before I am addressed by the Advertising Code Committee. The point is that everyone can get the hardware they need to be in contact with their family, because I fear that this situation in which parts of society are in isolation may take much longer than thought. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of the solar panels. I can imagine that sometimes the European Commission uses a penalty rate to deal with those who pay the debt, but it seems that we impose strict rules on other countries and are the victims of them themselves. Thank you. On behalf of Reverend Gremmaat, I wish you a tasty lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u55	Thank you. It's mutual. So much for the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-16-tweedekamer-2.u56	I'm gonna suspend until 12:30 and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers. Have a nice lunch.
