ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA Group, for her question to the Minister for Medical Care, whom I would also like to welcome, on the new code of conduct for the pharmaceutical industry. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. With a lot of bombs, last week the pharmaceutical industry presented its own code of conduct. The pharmaceutical industry itself says that trust only comes when there is openness. But that code doesn't say anything about openness about drug prices. There's nothing about openness about the costs of drug research. There's nothing in it about openness about marketing and promotional activities. That code is an empty shell. The emperor has no clothes on. Mr. Chairman. It makes it clear that industry itself is not in a position to reach binding agreements. The points I mentioned, for example openness about pharmaceutical prices, are of great importance to all of us, because we pay our premiums with each other. The Minister has previously replied to written questions from me that he is in favour of the pharmaceutical industry making its own rules and making its own arrangements if this leads to'structural change in the behaviour of that industry'. In my words, these rules must lead to improvement. What does the Minister think of what is now going on? Does this indeed lead to better and good behaviour on the part of the pharmaceutical industry? If he thinks so, what changes does he see? If he doesn't think so, what steps is he going to take to force them to open up the issues that he and I consider so important? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. I've received the code. I've seen a draft text before. I did not think that draft text was sufficient, because it did not contain two subjects that I would like to see in the code. One concerns the transparent price structure of medicines. The other is about good medicine for a reasonable price. I have therefore already said to the organisation that I would like to see these two themes again when reading this draft version. Last Friday, when I was offered the code, I also said that I miss those two subjects. At the time of adoption, I said that I would accept this code on the condition that you, as an organisation, work on an improved code before the end of this cabinet period, and that these two subjects will return to it. In that respect, Mrs Ploumen and I are about to tap out of the same vessel. They also asked me if I see anything of improvement in the pharmaceutical sector. Yes, I can see, for example, that the members of the VIG organisation, which we are talking about, are now condemning another pharmaceutical company for their attitude. That's a statement I didn't expect a few years ago. Beyond that, I see that, for example, a bank in the Netherlands no longer wants to invest in certain pharmaceutical industries because of not taking up the social role. Something's shifting. Is that gonna be fast enough? No way! So there's work to be done for the VIG. I also appeal to the VIG on several occasions during the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	We may be able to tap out of the same pot, but the Minister's glass is really faster than mine. Because the pharmaceutical industry has been working on that code for three years. She is now getting another year from the Minister; let us put it this way. So these are four years, four years in which prices are too high and we have no understanding of the cost structure. Four years still do not lead to binding measures by this Minister. Why doesn't the Minister intervene and limit himself to doing so? In other words, why does he not lay down the important issues, such as openness about costs, legally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm not gonna give you a year. It's a code of the sector itself. This tightening-up must come from the sector itself and not from me. I don't have a contract with the sector. It is their work and I will continue to appeal to them, both in the contacts with this organisation itself and in the contacts with individual producers. If these prices are too high, we have had this debate before and we must always weigh that against the possibility that we would not have that industry. Are there patients in the cold if the pharmaceutical industry doesn't come to the Netherlands? We are, of course, trying to influence the prices of medicines by other measures, including by adjusting the pharmaceutical reimbursement system, on which I thought I sent you another letter yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is clear to me that the Minister is being held hostage by the pharmaceutical industry. He is not prepared to take binding measures. I've already done part of the work for him. I have made a law on transparency that obliges industry to report their financial relationships with healthcare providers. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister the following. He doesn't want to do anything. Does he at least want to give a positive opinion on my law? Because it aims to find the transparency and openness that the Minister claims to be important, but which he really doesn't do anything for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	I don't think there's a hostage situation. I am trying to emphasise that I think it is very important that medicines are available for patients in the Netherlands. If the medicine producer says that he does not deliver in the Netherlands, because he does not want to make his prices clear, I think that is an incredible dilemma. But I always want to stand next to the patient. I want to ensure that patients in the Netherlands receive good medicines at a reasonable price. That is my deep wish in the pharmaceutical dossier. As regards the questions on Mrs Ploumen's own-initiative proposal, as well as on the VIG code, I would like to read them and make an assessment of them and send them to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Opportunity after opportunity: this is what the pharmaceutical industry gets from this minister. He keeps relying on the good will of the pharmaceutical company. We now know, even after this code, that there is no good will. There is another interest at stake in the pharmaceutical industry, namely to make as much profit as possible by offering medicines at the highest possible price to patients. That is why I ask the Minister: what is he going to do in concrete terms in the coming months to tackle the pharmaceutical industry? What's he gonna do to force them to bring those prices down? Is he prepared, for example, to share information with his fellow ministers from other European countries on the prices they have achieved in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	There are a few answers to Mrs Ellemeet's questions. In fact, we are working together at European level to create an agenda aimed at transparent price-building of medicinal products. So we're gonna hang out in Europe together. I expect most of that, too. In addition, I will continue to appeal to individual pharmaceutical industry at its prices and to make it clear what Mrs Ellemeet did not mention, namely that the pharmaceutical industry says that it makes such high research and development costs and that they have to be paid back somehow. My answer is standard: make it public; explain it. In addition, I think I have just said in reply to Mrs Ploumen that we must continue to work on reducing the prices of medicinal products. There are other ways to do that. See the letter I sent you this week on the pharmaceutical reimbursement system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think it is very good that the pharmaceutical industry has drawn up its own code of conduct. That is always to be welcomed, but it is indeed a missed chance that there is nothing about the price of medicines, which is just the hottest issue at the moment. I am very pleased that the Minister also says that he finds that disappointing. My question to the Minister is: what pressure is he going to put on industry to change that code so that it goes at some speed and that we do not have to wait another two years for it? I am also asking this in relation to the reports on the growing waiting times for expensive medicines that come on the market. The longer it takes, the longer patients who are unable to take medicines. Any pressure on the process to quickly modify that code is therefore desirable, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have already indicated that I do not want this to happen within two years, but before March next year, before the elections, so in this cabinet period. That's one. Secondly, Mr Veldman refers to the so-called sluice-gate procedure, which deals in particular with the prices of expensive medicines. There is never a problem with the lead time if the pharmaceutical manufacturer is prepared to set a low price, because then I do not have to talk about high drug prices. That's part of the answer. That is therefore an appeal to the sector itself. I understand from the VIG, the advocacy organisation, that she would like to make further arrangements with me on the basis of that code. I indicated to the VIG that I would only be willing to do so if the two key issues were identified, transparency on medicines prices and good medicines at a reasonable price.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	The CDA, like the Minister, is very disappointed in this code. Article 1 of the Code states that the patient's interest is to be taken into account. At least this is not recognised in the rest of the text, because there is no mention of price formation at all. I believe that the Minister has taken various steps to do and negotiate at the end of the negotiations. But now it seems as if the person best able to negotiate determines the price. I am particularly interested in what the Minister will do at the beginning of the chain, for example by ensuring that the research phase can be much shorter or that patent protection is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	We are conducting these talks, in particular, to give an example, the lead time of orphan medicinal products. Sometimes I think that the protection period associated with an orphan drug is far too long. I also think that this is a point to address at international level, i.e. at European level. This orphan medicinal product regulation is a European rule. I think there is a good side to that regulation, namely that you are making a medicine for a small group of patients and that the industry should also earn it back. Otherwise, there won't be any new drugs. On the other hand, I think that sometimes abuse is made of the orphan medicinal product regulation. Then we'll have to shorten that lead time, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	I believe that the disappointment about this code is widely shared in the Chamber and also by the Minister, at least by 50PLUS. There are indeed a number of things not in it. I hope that disappointment will really put pressure on the Minister. There are several things not in that code. Whatever is not in it is the retention of patents and patents for as long as possible and the sometimes redefining of patents, which means that medicines are still much more expensive. So my question to the Minister is whether he wants to take with him the pressure he's going to put on that I'm going to assume that he wants to keep patents and patents for longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, the latter is too general for me. The first point I take over. So the disappointment of your Chamber I will pass on to the VIG, the association that created this code. But honestly, I love patents. I think that the fact that there is industry inventing new medicines is fantastic. There are still so many people who are waiting for an approach, a solution or a treatment for their disease that does not yet have treatment or cure. So that innovative side, the patents of which are part, is very, very important. We shouldn't think too lightly about that. I have just indicated to Mrs van den Berg that in some cases, as in the case of the orphan medicinal product regulation, abuse is taking place. Then I think that the market exclusive period of ten years is, in some cases, too long and should be shortened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	That is exactly what I mean, so not so much the normal patents but the abuse that is being made, the redefining of a particular medicine that then goes back to a long exclusive period, which is not necessary at all. That's the abuse I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Sure. That is not really a question to me anymore, but I would like to say that I think that this innovative side of medicines is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	But it's a question of whether you're taking that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have already said in my initial reaction that I will convey to the VIG the disappointment of this Chamber about the content of the code.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mrs Sazias' question was whether the abuse of patents is being raised. I am happy that you are taking over the disappointment, but this was the specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yes, Mr President, I think that abuse of the orphan medicinal product regulation, for example, is a theme to be addressed at European level. As far as I am concerned, it is also on the agenda of the new Commissioner. It is a theme that the Netherlands brings in to put on that agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	And you're also linking it back to the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	Always, always, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	The interests of patients must be paramount. That is what we find in the Chamber, and that is what the Minister thinks, and that is what the pharmaceutical industry is saying, but indeed the most difficult issues are not in the code of conduct. I'm noticing that the industry has an endless trickbox to extend patents and re-market drugs at much higher prices. The examples have all been mentioned today. It is good that the Minister is getting to work and talking to the pharmaceutical industry about this code of conduct. It's gotta be better. My group agrees with that. My question to the Minister is: what is he to do with this code of conduct? What's the lower limit? What instruments does he have left, other than entering the conversation? What means does the Minister have to really get the pharmaceutical industry moving?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	I think this can best come from the conversations you and I may have in your position with individual pharmaceutical companies, because many of the VIG members are subsidiaries of international companies. Those subsidiaries are sometimes quite susceptible to good conversation, but bottomline is often that there is a change of course at international level. So I see it as my task not only with the Dutch branch of the company but also with the international branch of the company to have that discussion. I've done that again in the last few days at the World Economic Forum. I have several examples. You're gonna get scared. I would like to discuss this further with the VWS committee, because there are also pharmaceutical manufacturers who say: if this continues in the Netherlands, then I will no longer be taking my medicines. I don't think that's a winking perspective. Let me say that loud and clear. This is at the expense of patients in the Netherlands and other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you.
