ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u1	The subject is now the continuation of the joint examination of legislative proposals 35466, the third incidental supplementary budget on the employment and economic emergency package 2.0 and COVID-19 crisis measure SURE, and 35492, the fifth incidental supplementary budget on COVID-19 crisis measures on the IMF increased resources PRGT and EIB-pan-European Guarantee Fund, adjustment of IMF resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr President. If I may, I would like to make a few general comments, also in relation to the general comments made in the debate. Then I will be at some pace, because in the previous debate I got the impression that you are in a hurry, talking about SURE, the EU, the EIB, the IMF and others. Maybe to emphasize it, because I have said it here before, but I would like to repeat it: the cabinet has a pro-European influence. That applies to me personally, in particular, but as a member of the cabinet, I can also say that in full. The cabinet was then instructed to look at the proposals with a positive-critical basis. What has struck me in the public discourse, and here too, and more often in political debates, is perhaps good to mark. In the polarized debate that is taking place on Europe, the proposals put on the table are directly seen as a litmus test. Or: are you, on the one hand, sufficiently negative, because it comes from Europe and it will not be good? But we see the other as well: it comes from Europe, so if you're not excited about it, you obviously don't like Europe. Both would be unwise, would be my position. The government's mission is precisely to enter into good proposals. We've certainly tried to do that from my ministry over the past few years. In addition, there are plans that you think there is much good to discover, but they deserve improvement. Then in consultation with others, you should just get to work. Moreover, there are also plans, for example, some of the plans suggested by other Member States, such as Eurobonds, which the Netherlands simply thinks is unwise, so you should try to get rid of them. You will always have to look at the content instead of sticking to the surface and making a choice on that basis. Then I would say that we are failing Europe, but also ourselves, on the cabinet side. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the first package. I've heard several senators practicing the pronunciation. I do not know it any different than SURE, but that is perhaps also because English is always spoken in the Eurogroup. Mr Frentrop asked why we need to tackle it at European level; that is a national responsibility, isn't it? I agree with him on this point. Of course, this kind of thing is, first and foremost, a national responsibility. But many countries have also taken significant measures at national level. We have to acknowledge together, I think, that the covid crisis is really a cross-border crisis that has not happened since the Second World War. I also think that it is wise to call for this solidarity, under conditions. Mr Frentrop also referred to the fact that some of the conditions in the SURE package were applied by the Netherlands. He made further comments on the sunset clause. That is exactly one of the things the Netherlands has insisted on. The Netherlands has also called for health care to be part of the package, because we do not want to set a precedent for a European social security system, because that is typical of the prerogatives of the Member States. Mr Schalk said that it is our duty to help people, but that there are degrees. There's a difference between saving lives on the one hand and jobs on the other. There is also a difference in solidarity. He asked me if I agree. Yeah, absolutely. The shirt is always closer than the skirt, of course. That was precisely the reason why the cabinet anticipated the conclusion of this discussion, and I personally indicated that we felt that we should do more and that the Netherlands was prepared to do more in the field of public health. It was first and foremost a health crisis in the very first phase, and unfortunately it is still a health crisis in some places. Mr Schalk asked how many billions of this package have been deployed. This package must first be accepted by all parliaments and then we can really start with it. No applications have yet been submitted to the ESM. Mr Frentrop asked if we could ever get the money back. That's the idea, because that's how we agreed. They are loans granted by the Union to Member States and those loans should simply be repaid to the Union. The risks are limited in two ways. For example, the annual size of the Union's financial commitments entered into by SURE should not exceed EUR 10 billion. This also prevents you from getting a higher pressure on refunds in specific years. Furthermore, the risk is also spread by giving these loans to different countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u4	Let me clarify my question. I did not ask how many billions have already been spent on this budget. That is not possible, because we still have to decide on it, although they are complementary. I saw it more in its totality. I'm talking about how many tens, hundreds of billions we've already needed for that corona crisis where this will come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u5	That depends on how you look at it. If you look at what the European governments have done together in the area of emergency packages, you will reach thousands of billions. Some of that money is coming back, because some of it is also a deferred tax. If you look at this particular package, the optimists calculate that this is about 540 billion. Why did I say "the optimists"? For the simple reason that, for example, as far as the ESM is concerned, it is assumed that not all Member States will attract the ESM. This will never happen in practice because Member States such as the Netherlands can borrow cheaper than via the ESM and will therefore never use that money, at least not in what I would call foreseeable circumstances. So in practice, you're much lower for this particular package than the 540 billion. Furthermore, I think it is very complicated to draw up a final account at the moment. See also how big the differences are in all those planning desk scenarios. These vary by tens of billions if you look at the Dutch economy and public finances alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u6	At least that's an indication. In a subtlety, the minister also said something about the ESM. No withdrawal from the ESM Fund has yet been made. Why should we create a fund of 540 billion when we still have 240 billion somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u7	For the record, that 240 is part of that 540. This package consists of three components. It consists of the EB component, the SURE component and the ESM component. The Netherlands has just indicated that the ESM is the huge lock on the door, as it were the visitor you still want when a country really comes into payment problems and is on the brink of collapse. That is why the Dutch cabinet, by the way, was so opposed to emptying that pot prematurely. 'Cause when we run out, we're out. That is why we agreed that countries should be allowed to draw out a so-called credit line under specific conditions in order to spend that money on healthcare costs, in fact the point to which Mr Schalk referred. That may be the exception to the main rule that you only apply to the ESM for a combination of reforms and loans, but the rest of the ESM leaves you intact. That is not for economic reasons, but for the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u8	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u9	Mr Frentrop asked why this is the way to reducing working hours, when we do not even know whether we will have to extend the measures in the autumn. I understand his question. I have the cautious hope that we will not have to roll through the whole emergency package, as we now have in phase two, in this way in phase three, also looking at how much is going well in the economy. I also think it is logical that, in addition to wanting to regulate the Netherlands well, you also contribute to solidarity in Europe. That was also the inspiration behind this package. I think that was also a question from Mr Van Strien. I don't see him looking directly cheerful, but this has been the logic. Mr. Chairman. Mr Frentrop asked: can France and Italy, for example, make use of this, when they have previously, in his words, violated the budgetary rules? Yes, because no link has been made with the Stability and Growth Pact. It is also my frustration that the rules there have not always been observed in the past. Of course, several Dutch governments have called on different committees, but this is really true in a different way. I would add that the Netherlands has been one of the first to say that the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact should not be applied in the current economic situation, because this is so exceptional that it makes life unreasonably complicated. I referred to Mr Schalk's question on the ESM. Mr Frentrop asked whether a good need assessment had been made. Yes, the Commission has assessed the increase in the cost of reducing working hours, has looked at what similar measures are in the various Member States and, of course, has made an assessment in the middle of the crisis. I think, quite frankly, that this is what applies to all these crisis measures: this assessment is imperfect and will soon turn out to be slightly different. At SURE you will see again that the Dutch cabinet will not use it. That's what SURE is about. Then I would like to say a few words about the European Union. Mrs. Sent referred to that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u10	I was surprised that the Minister had suddenly finished SURE, because precisely in this context I asked how he assessed the use of SURE for reducing working hours, whereas the Netherlands has made such great sacrifices in recent years by making the whole of society, the whole economy, more flexible. My question to the Minister is: how is that proportionate? How does he feel about having to put so much money into such a fund for those countries that have not done anything about it, at least not to the extent that the Netherlands has done so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u11	Perhaps to reassure Mr Van Strien: I will also answer this question, but many of the questions I have just mentioned to Mr Frentrop are questions that he has also asked, so I thought I would have answered them in his direction. Then his question. I think you should take two things apart. This is an emergency support package with a specific scope, a specific duration and a specific amount. We in the Netherlands felt that this would be wise, after we had improved a number of things, namely 1. the scope, 2. the remark that this is not intended to be sorted out for a European unemployment provision and 3. the sunset clause. With regard to the recovery package that is now being discussed, primarily by the Prime Minister, we have indicated what we think should apply if Member States are again called upon, for example, to the Netherlands. We therefore believe that we should also equip countries for a better future, that we should take them on the road to reform, or rather, that they themselves should want to take that path. These could be reforms in the area of pensions, which could be labour market reforms. This recipe, of course, varies from country to country and is generally quite well described in the so-called country-specific recommendations, which the Commission makes every year for each Member State, with the exception of this year, because this year, I think, they are of a very different nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u12	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u13	I was referring to a question by Mrs Sent about the European agreements: what kind of commitment can we expect there? The cabinet expressed this commitment to both Chambers in the appreciation of the proposal. The so-called sensible four have made their own position paper, but there has also been an appreciation of the Commission's plans. We are enthusiastic about a number of parts. From a number of parts we think that they really need to be different and better, not only from a Dutch perspective, but also because we really think that it is punching below our weight for Europe as a whole. And there are also parts that we do not consider wise in this form. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sent mentioned solidarity as a well-understood self-interest. She was completely inspired by Klaas Knot and Jan Peter Balkenende, something I will personally convey to them both. But I do think the story is a little more complicated. If it were only understood self-interest, you would assume that if you give a very large pot of money to someone else, that is an effective way to sell a part of your products. There's a certain amount of vulnerability in that reasoning. Of course, on the other hand, in a Union in which the internal market is going to work again, in which demand is just getting back on track, a country like the Netherlands is also benefiting from it. But that you should only do it for well-understood self-interest and b that it would also be well-understood self-interest, I find that both too short. I would choose, quite frankly, a more united approach on that first track. And on that second track, I would argue that you need to create something that really makes Europe better economically. And that is where I find the Commission's current package to be really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u14	What I do not hear so much about to the Minister is about the benefits of cooperation in Europe for the Netherlands. I hear a lot of criticism and solidarity is emphasised, but what I would very much like to hear from the Minister is about the Dutch success, the Dutch trade surplus, the cheap euro and its impact on the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u15	I'd be happy to. Mr President, that will then be a more general debate on Europe, which I believe you have been trying to avoid all evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u16	I would therefore suggest that you respond to this somewhat concisely and that we confine ourselves as much as possible to the legislative proposals that are now under discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u17	I think, and I hope to say this towards Mrs Sent with permission, that the Netherlands will, of course, also benefit from the internal market. But I would like to maintain the following. Just when you are in favour of Europe, just when you are in favour of good European cooperation, just when you think that more needs to be done in terms of innovation, in terms of geopolitics, in all kinds of areas, you have the task of looking critically at the proposals that are being put forward. Because the moment you spend hundreds of billions, it has to be true. I really think it is perfectly logical that you then look at what action is needed in Member States to ensure that those Member States end up on a path of sustainable economic growth, not for the sake of the Netherlands but for their own sake. And that, of course, is not only reasonable if you appeal to the Dutch taxpayer, but it is good for the individual Member States and it is ultimately really good for Europe. So I would like to get rid of 'it comes from Europe, so it is wrong' or 'it comes from Europe so it is good'. I said that at the beginning of my speech, and I didn't say that for nothing. No, you need to see what works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u18	Mrs Sent, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u19	I would just like to make the point that I think it is important that we not only look ahead in the General European Reviews, but also look back and realise to what extent we have benefited from our membership of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u20	But then I'm gonna repeat myself. I have often said this in this Chamber: the Netherlands is a country that has benefited from the internal market. Moreover, all Member States are free to take advantage of this single market as much as possible. There is therefore no ban on taking advantage of the internal market as much as the Netherlands. Each Member State has been warmly invited to this. In fact, it would be good if more Member States were to focus more on this. Because in the end, it belongs to all of us. So that's the European Union. As far as the euro is concerned, it has been a political project in the first place and we have gone about it with the necessary looming errors. Due to damage and shame, we have managed to correct some of those looming errors, but we are not there yet. One cannot deny that at the moment when things are not as good economically as they are in Europe, some of those vulnerabilities of that currency simply resurface. Mr. Chairman. I had just tried to content Mr Backer with my general contribution. He asked about the German Presidency. For the record, I think he is a little skilful about the sensible four, because, in my view, Austria, Denmark and Sweden are well-functioning democracies with a strong rule of law and generally sound financial and economic policy. They are all countries that do more than their fair share in terms of solidarity in terms of what they contribute to Europe, but also do more than their fair share in terms of development cooperation and other international obligations. In order to put that road down as not enough company for us, I think it is a little short-winded towards three friendly Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u21	Now the Minister's doing something really weird. I have argued that I find it an unwise tactical manoeuvre to choose with three other countries, these four, a position where the Netherlands has manoeuvred at the margins of the European debate. With that I do not disqualify another country; I just say that I find it tactically unwise. Of course, it is not the countries that are going to decide. Everyone has a veto or maybe it is by majority, but it is not those countries. So now you're putting something in my mouth that I didn't mean to say, and you're using it rhetorically to achieve something else. But I'll be back to talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u22	In my view, Mr Backer thought it was tactical. I think he said something along the lines of: I can still follow tactically, but you just shouldn't end up with it. Then I paraphrase him, but he said something in that direction. I think you should take a broad look at which countries you can hang out with. Mr Backer narrowed that down to this group, but just for the record: take that point of the key. There is a much larger group there, and I think that more than half of the Member States of the European Union agree with the Netherlands that a key, which actually has little to do with corona, where Poland ends up in the top 3 of the recipients, is unwise. I therefore find the narrowing of the debate unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u23	I will say something about it later on in the second term, because I think we are talking about a part of each other. I did say that I think it's tactically incorrect, but there's still a chance of jumping on time. That has indeed lingered from my speech, I agree with it, but I am in the other part. But I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u24	Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik asked about the differences in impact. He said the report shows that, too. I very much agree with him. Indeed, the Commission also points out these large differences in the impact, resilience and budgetary space. Frankly, therefore, the crisis also underlines the importance of increased growth and recovery capacity. To be honest, this requires not only investment, but also structural reforms. In one country, that recipe is different than in the other. To be honest, the Netherlands really has some work to do there. Healthy public finances remain important in this respect. Mr Schalk asked whether other countries had similar measures to the NOW. The short answer is yes. Many Member States have done more or less similar things, but with all the comparisons we have made, of course, there are always differences between Member States. In terms of how massive we have dealt with it, we are in fact the most similar to Germany, where, of course, there have been very substantial measures. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the IMF. First a question from Mr Vendrik, who asked about the AIV report. I understand the importance of his emphasis, but this is still under discussion in the cabinet. I do not, therefore, inform the Chamber about this until that consultation has been concluded, but I can say that this is the focus of the attention of all those concerned. The next question, from Mrs Sent and, in my view, Mr Vendrik, was about the recommendation of the Sustainable Finance Lab and the SDR issue. It is perhaps good to recall that the Prime Minister, together with at least some of his European and African colleagues in an opinion paper in the Financial Times, has argued that an SDR allocation could be an addition to countries and that it is ultimately up to the IMF to propose a possible SDR allocation to members and then decide on it. That shows, I think, how the Netherlands is in that race, but we must also note that there is currently insufficient support at the IMF for such an SDR allocation. Mr Backer asked whether it was true that the IMF's borrowing capacity was USD 1 000 billion. That's right. Mr Vendrik asked a question that I have asked myself internally: can the IMF actually handle it and is it true that there are more than 100 countries in the queue? The answer is: yes, there are so many countries involved. That, of course, says something about how extreme the crisis we are facing. At the same time, you can see that the IMF has 1,000 billion in borrowing capacity, quotas and temporary resources at its disposal and that it can make all kinds of arrangements. Most of these 100 countries are smaller in size than the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a small country, especially in Europe, but a lot of countries are significantly smaller in terms of population and certainly in terms of economy. At the moment, therefore, we do not have the impression that this amount is too little. But it is not for nothing either, as Mr Vendrik rightly pointed out, that the cabinet has made more than 600 million additional loans available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u25	Can I assume that, if the IMF does not expect to re-apply to the members for additional deposits, the cabinet has an extremely positive attitude towards this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u26	If that were the case, it would be very unwise to say so here. I think Mr Vendrik understands that. There's no question now. We have all had to practice with the Prime Minister that we would never answer a hypothetical question in either of the two Chambers. I've got that lesson tied in my ears. When the time comes, the cabinet will have to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u27	This is a little too important for that. I understand the Minister's answer, but this is really about the global economy. We are talking about the other side of globalisation: billions of world citizens who are locked up in economies that are now in need, because the financial markets are almost closed to them, can only turn to one point of contact, and that is what the IMF is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u28	So your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u29	Surely it cannot be otherwise that, when the IMF announces itself unexpectedly in the autumn with an additional request for capital payments or other forms of funding from the Member States to finance aid programmes, the cabinet has at least a positive foundation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u30	Maybe we should peel it off after all. The Netherlands has been one of the pillars of the IMF for decades, since it was founded, to this day. I'm not saying that because that would be my credit, but just because I'm hearing it back from the IMF. If we are not in a position where we should be even a little ashamed, then it is there. The Netherlands really does this in the Honor Division. Two. We just pledged $600 million. Three. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Nederland heeft misschien niet helemaal net zoveel als de heer Vendrik dat graag zou willen, maar toch historisch gezien en ook onder dit kabinet een hele forse bijdrage geleverd op het gebied van ontwikkelingssamenwerking.]] If you compare that with many other Member States of the European Union or countries that are members of the IMF and if you look at what countries are actually doing and a little less at what they are saying they are going to do, then the Netherlands is also playing in the Honor Division. If I take this whole package together, I think it is a genuine witness not only to a sensible package but also to a solidarity package. Does that mean that, in all cases, we are going to say yes or no to an organization that is now saying no to capital? I really have to weigh that later. But what if I agreed with Mr Vendrik that I should inform the Chamber, with him in particular, about that, should that question arise? Does that work? Okay. I've arrived at the EIB. Mr Schalk asked whether the Netherlands could bear the costs. The guarantee schemes make it possible to provide support to the national but also to the international economy with a relatively limited budget. Why, as a cabinet, were we excited about the EIB? Because you can see that this will help companies, consciously many small companies in the Union, through a very difficult phase, exactly as we have done in the Netherlands. Is that without risk? No, of course that is not without risk, because it is about companies that are potentially in trouble. There were also members, such as Mr Otten and Mr Van Strien, who were critical and expected net losses. If you are only willing to support those companies that are going to make it, the amount is of course lower. That's crystal clear. Of course, you also want companies that you think deserve support, but which may not all survive, to be able to do so. You could have made it even more extreme and taken an even more risky group. Then the percentage would have gone up. How does it work in the Dutch system? To be honest, I think that this is just a testament to giving the States-General a proper understanding and correct accounting. An assessment of the percentage is made in advance. At the initiative of the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden that is a percentage in this order size and not something much larger. I think it is good that we should just report that to the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u31	It is quite clear that if you want to support promising companies in a difficult situation, you have to factor in losses. But if you do that wisely, you'll support a large number of companies that you might have to write off, but by the bank you'll get a positive result. In advance 20% write down I find a bit bizarre.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u32	Maybe it is good to mark that the fund makes demands on the companies. These are companies that were healthy before the corona crisis. If you want to spend the money just for companies that have no problem, they won't come to your window either. To be honest, I think it's just prudent, not least from the cabinet to the States General, not to sell it any different than what it really is. It is something that will go well in the vast majority of cases, i.e. 80% is now estimated. But you're also gonna pull a few strings from a company where it looks pretty good in front, but maybe in three, four, five years there won't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u33	I understand what the Minister is saying, but so far the IMF has always, taken by the bank, made such investments that they do not suffer a loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u34	This is the EIB. What Mr Van Strien says about the EIB is, by the way, correct. But we are dealing with a situation in which a lot of companies, especially many SMEs, have gone through or are still going through a very difficult phase. In the Netherlands, we have rigged up a very substantial package of loans for these companies. I really think that it is wise to help companies through such a phase rather than bankrupt them all and then clean up the debris. We thought this was wise. I think it is also good that we have made explicit that a substantial part of the money should go to SMEs and not to large companies. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sent asked how I assess the transparency and control of the EIB's operations. As she knows, the EIB is a public bank. That is why transparency is extremely important. In the end, this is also about public money. The EIB shall also make that information publicly available. They always publish information about the project proposals. They do so prior to approval by the board of directors. There are also many conditions in terms of governance, social standards and environmental standards. So that is taken into account. It is then up to the European Court of Auditors to monitor the EIB. I am not sitting there personally at the table, but I am represented there by someone who may still be in the public gallery somewhere. In my view, I also answered Mrs Sent's question on environmental and social criteria. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Sent asked: does that mean that an entity like a commercial private bank determines its own criteria outside the reach of the government? For the sake of order, indirect funding is used to make the best use of local networks and knowledge of these intermediaries, but it is important to manage this cooperation. For this reason, the EIB's partners must also adhere to these social and environmental standards. These intermediaries then report back to the EIB and the European Court of Auditors is involved in assessing whether this is being done in a good way. Then Mr Backer asked whether there was enough capacity and vision for strategic industrial policy. Is there any official capacity for that? For the record, we support, as the Netherlands, that the Commission presented a long-term European industrial strategy in March and that it wants to continue its work. Our own growth strategy, if you have to put it that way, is expressed in a letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy from, I believe, December last year. On 15 May, the Minister of EZK offered the Vision sustainability basic industry 2050 to the House of Representatives. And then in the autumn, around Prinsjesdag, we also come to talk about the investment fund. Mr President, I am at the block other than that. Mr Backer asked about decision-making in corona time. Of course, the crisis affects the decision-making process. At the same time, we have tried to do it in a very neat way in the Netherlands, because these occasional budgets are ahead in the States-General. So that money is spent entirely in accordance with budget law. I am not under any illusions, however well we try to make these packages as sensible as possible, as the Secretary of State for Finance, the Minister of SZW, the Minister of EZK and myself and, where necessary, others involved, I am sure that, if this is to be evaluated in a year or two years' time, there will undoubtedly be things that are said to have been handled differently by the cabinet. That's what you get when you put arrangements together in a couple of days that you normally take nine months for. That is the reality we found ourselves in in March and April, but also today. Then Mrs Sent said that I have at least understood her question in such a way that only those entrepreneurs who suffer the consequences of corona should be eligible for aid. Of course, the measures are specifically intended for this purpose. Those measures are intended to improve the liquidity position of entrepreneurs. You want to be as focused and efficient as possible. Of course, that's what we're trying to do. To be honest, that applies to all the pieces of the package, from the tax delay to the NOW, for which you must also have suffered a significant loss of revenue. The same applies to the successor to the TOGS, which is the part of the Minister for Economic Affairs. On the contrary, we have put in all kinds of categories to improve the original TOGS. But we have also deliberately chosen to introduce generic measures, otherwise you will come out of the rain. Then you're serving one sector, and then the other sector says, "I want that too." Then a third sector says "I want it sister" and says the following sector: I want it this way. We had to do that for pieces in the first phase, but in the second phase we tried to solve it generically as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk asked how many billions have already been spent. I think I've already answered that question. He also asked, "Doesn't the public debt get too high?" It has, of course, grown considerably; that is quite obvious. At the same time: if you look at public finances as a whole, when you consider that we have very low interest charges in the historical perspective and that we are a triple A country that, apart from Germany, lends the cheapest of all, and you see what you can expect to recover in the coming years in the Netherlands, then frankly it is not my main concern that we are now slightly above 60%. A few Members asked: how should we proceed with the discussion on balance and debt, on that 3% and that 60%? To be honest, there is quite a lot to say about this, but I will try to keep it relatively short. I have always argued that the House of Representatives has often asked that the most important thing is for us to get the Member States of the European Union on a path of sustainable economic growth. After all, growth is the best way to control debt, to finance public expenditure and to keep the burden on citizens and businesses reasonable. Budgetary rules and sound public finances are not an end in themselves, but an important means. The 60% and the 3% were chosen once. They're imperfect, but they're numbers that people recognize. Am I open to a broader discussion in a climate of low interest rates? Yes, in itself, but then you have to put a better anchor for it instead. There has been quite a lot of puzzles, even in the previous cabinet period, about how you could achieve better percentages or a different system, but that is not so easy. There are even people who say: it has become more complicated. If you're going to increase the percentages considerably, I'm afraid that's gonna increase all the public debt as well. Member States may then think: I am now 50%, 60% or 70% above it, and later I want to be 50%, 60% or 70% above it. The question is whether this is wise, especially for those Member States which actually have little growth potential. The most important thing that explains once again the government's commitment to the recovery fund is to ensure that we achieve more sustainable economic growth in the European Union, which is simply too low. Mrs Sent was still asking about the low interest rates and the slow repayment of the debt. She asked me if I agree that the state debt isn't important right now. "Not important" is too strong, but it's not my main concern. My main concern is that this also explains the stakes in all those packages, which are precisely macro-economic in nature. I think it's best to take a longer period of time, whether it's ten, fifteen or twenty years to get public finances back in order. Frankly, it could be quite quick, because last year the Netherlands paid 14 billion in the treasury, at a time when we have spent considerably more in the collective sector and reduced the burden on both citizens and businesses. In the Netherlands, we have a very volatile economy. If that goes well, you can do all three things at once. On the other hand, if things go badly, you typically see public finances getting knocked out, a lot of people are unemployed and some of the international trade is needed before you get back to recovery. Mr Van Strien asked whether I could provide an overview of the guarantees and, if so, whether this could be done before 1 November of this year. Two weeks ago, a letter was sent to the House of Representatives with an overview of the guarantees. I'd be happy to send it to the First Chamber, too. That letter has been sent and there will be an update of the guarantees with Prince's Day. If Mr Van Strien can still spend a summer without that overview, we can wait for that. Mr Vendrik asked a question which I am potentially pleased about: when will the investment fund arrive? Mr Wiebes and I are putting the finishing touches to that. I also said in the House of Representatives that on or around Prinsjesdag we will come forward with proposals on how we are going to fly it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik asked about the culture sector and the nurses. This is, by the way, a bit out of the way for this debate, because these subjects were not immediately included in the documents before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u35	I haven't been able to find them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u36	That makes two of us. Perhaps we should get rid of that to a debate that is yet to come. That brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u37	Mr Vendrik can also spend time on this in his second term if he wishes to return to it. It's okay now, too. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u38	There are several issues that are not strictly reflected in both legislative proposals, but both legislative proposals deal with the response to the crisis. It's getting a little complicated. Yesterday I asked the same questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Social Affairs. And then you have to be with another minister. But today, the same thing is happening. I appeal to the Minister to respond more favourably here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u39	I should like to refer the matter back to the Minister for Social Affairs, because he knows all about it. But the Minister for Education, Culture and Science also has the c of culture in her portfolio. I would also like to say something general about it, but that is to say that this debate has been held extensively with the House of Representatives and that a package has been put forward by the Minister for Culture for the cultural sector. The NOW, the Tozo and parts of what was first called the TOGS are available to the cultural institutions that meet the conditions. The package that has already been discussed with the municipalities also talks about culture. I think Mr Vendrik knows exactly how the discussions in the House of Representatives on both the health bonus and structural salaries have ended. I don't see how I can override the Prime Minister or the Minister of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u40	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u41	My point was that in the debates with the minister of OCW, for example, there is more than regular reference to the generic package. That's why I brought it up against the Minister of Finance. This package is made by the finance ministers, EZK and SZW. The problem in the cultural sector is that these generic measures are the very ones I have mentioned two examples: the Minister of EZK's guarantee schemes are often not working because bank financing in the cultural sector is more of an exception than a rule. The TOGS doesn't work in culture because a lot of small self-employed people in the creative sector don't have a work address. The generic regulations invoked by the Minister of OCW are not appropriate. Then it is important that the ministers who deal with the generic regulations should also have that on their retina. Otherwise we will continue to engage each other and there will be no next step that can be meaningful for the cultural sector. That's why I'm bringing it up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u42	Perhaps a short answer after all, Mr. Hoekstra? It is not in these two legislative proposals, I think, but perhaps you can say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u43	Sure. I have just tried to say a few words about this, but I would like to refer Mr Vendrik to the specific package, because, in addition to the generic arrangements, in fact, by way of derogation from what I just said to Senator Sent about the logic of creating generic packages, hundreds of millions have also been released for culture. So there's definitely been some extras done, a lot of extras. Moreover, this is also the subject of discussion between the Secretary of State for Finance, the Minister of State and the municipalities, and some specific agreements have already been made on this subject, I believe. But please keep me on the latter side, because at that point I do not know the very last state of the crop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u44	Then I'm going to see Mr. Backer. I'm sorry, Mr. Vendrik, but it's my job to determine the Chamber on the subject at hand. That's my assignment. It's not about culture today. You can interview the Minister of OCW or wait for the OCW budget, but it is not on the agenda today, and I have the mandate to decide on the subject. I didn't make that up myself; it's in the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry I have to do that. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u45	My question is also a little along the edges of what is ahead, namely the three funds. But Mr Schalk also remarked: against what background are we doing this issue? I had a very precise question for the Minister. We had the last stand at the Spring Note; that was in April. This involved a deficit of 11.8% and -65.2%. What is the current position, approximate or exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u46	I will see to it that Mr Backer receives the letter that was sent to the House of Representatives a week and a half ago, because there is an update in it. Here's what I'm gonna say. In my opinion, I have previously been appointed in this debate, or perhaps in the previous debate, the KLM debate, that those assessments, from the Planning Bureau, but also from the Ministry of Finance, with these different scenarios, show such a bizarre range of outcomes that you have to draw the conclusion that no one really knows. See the four most recent scenarios of the Planning Bureau. But I will also forward that last piece to the permanent Chamber of Finance Committee of the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u47	Then I will leave out the other question, namely which of the three CPB scenarios we are now in. Well, that'll be another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u48	Then let me take the previous CPB scenarios. In addition, we are no longer in the two most optimistic scenarios; we are more in the direction of number three, and when it is in the direction of number four. I'll say one more thing. All the international bodies that provide an opinion on the Dutch economy, such as the Commission, but in particular the IMF, are more gloomy than the scenarios we make ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u49	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u50	On that optimistic note, Mr President, I wanted to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u51	Everything is relative. We now have the second term on the part of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the prompt response to our first-term questions. In it, we called on the Minister to come up with a European agenda for growth, employment and the functioning of automatic stabilisers. In doing so, the Minister seemed to suggest that the individual contributions in this debate were full for or against the EU or the euro. I'm gonna distance myself from that. We have just sought a balance between understood self-interest and solidarity. We are not blind to the looming errors in the system. After all, monetary union is only viable if there is an economic union. Mr. Chairman. We have called on the Minister to choose a Europe that collectively offers the security that all Europeans are longing for at this time. The minister praises the foul four people who used a different adjective, but in our opinion, the Netherlands is on the sidelines with its lifted finger to the heavily affected countries. Mr. Chairman. We have drawn attention to the transparency and public scrutiny of the EIB's operations. We trust that the European Court of Auditors will monitor this properly, as will those who may or may not still be in the public gallery. Mr. Chairman. Following recommendations from the Sustainable Finance Lab, we have suggested that new SDRs be issued as gifts to developing countries and emerging countries. We are counting on the Netherlands to respond very favourably when the IMF knocks on the door of the Netherlands with a request to do so. We are very much looking forward to the promised update on this when it comes to it. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with an appeal to the cabinet to learn the right lesson from the crisis. A common European approach is an essential step in this. Focus this on future-proof economic activities, such as accelerating the circular transition and energy and mobility transition. Realize it in a social way. That is the commitment of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Strien, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering the questions. For the sake of clarity, I note that this minister and this government are on a fundamentally different track from the PVV Group. In particular, I would like to stress once again that the benefits of free trade within Europe are clear, but not linked to a single currency and all the instruments necessary to keep that single currency in the air. The great growth of trade and national economies is evident from before the introduction of the euro. It is clear that these differences have not been bridged tonight. I think the minister already knew that. At least we had that suspicion. I would therefore like to leave it at that. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u56	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for the first-term replies. We agree, I think, on the difference between helping in life-threatening situations on the one hand and helping the economy and the labour market on the other. That is where my group is stuck. We're going to put a huge amount of money into a fund. This is made up of three parts: 100 billion for SURE, 200 billion for the EIB, SMEs in Europe, and 240 billion for the ESM. In the ESM explanatory statement, the Minister said that it focuses in particular on health care elements and the like. If that has not been addressed so far, after what we have experienced from health problems, perhaps a broader application should be considered before we put the other 300 million against it again. Mr. Chairman. From my group, we are still looking at whether laws are still in balance on the scale of urgency versus the rapidly increasing financial obligations. In my opinion, the balance in these two laws has actually gone through. Actually, that's kind of hard for me. My group has so far been able to support all the COOVID-19 laws. This is going to be more difficult with this legislative proposal, not to bother the government or anything else, because we have been in a very difficult situation with each other. We have had an extremely difficult time in that regard. In the first meeting after the outbreak of corona, when we had been quiet for a few weeks, I referred to a prayer from the Bible. I think the Minister was present at the time, along with Minister Koolmees. In that prayer it was said: "Be merciful to me, O God! Have mercy on me, for my soul trusts in You, and I take refuge under the shadow of Your wings, until the ruins have passed away." Mr. Chairman. Corona's not over yet. My appeal at the end of this term from me and almost at the end of this sitting is: let us continue with two things, pray and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u58	Mr. Chairman. With appreciation and a certain admiration, I am looking at how the Minister is going through the various debates on various dossiers in this House, while there are hundreds of other things waiting on his desk and, in my opinion, there is also a certain rituality in the European debates. Because of course I have also read the discussion in the House of Representatives about these packages. I see a slight irritation on the part of the Minister under the skin. That was why I reacted to those four countries, because I also feel irritation in myself, because I think the Minister is using a rhetorical trick to put the European debate on the table. He says that there is a group that is for everything that comes from Europe and that there is a group that is against everything. Don't let him sit in the middle! I believe that this is a stylistic design which does not do justice to reality, because there are many groups, including mine, which are very critical of Europe, but also have a number of observations on how you would like to achieve things that the cabinet is doing differently now. Mr. Chairman. We support the three packages. We also see them as a commitment to a direction that is in line with what we in Europe would like to see. The Minister also said that corona time really has a different dynamic and is another issue in Europe. We need other answers to that, too. These are not just these three packages, because the same debate is emerging in Europe as we are about to have here. The Minister was right to say that things are going to happen and that some things may not go well. That is also true in Europe. All efforts and creativity will be needed to find and build a better, peaceful and prosperous Europe. I wish the Minister and the whole cabinet strength with that. My group's support is for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Finally, Mr Vendrik has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I understand he's dropping his term. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u60	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to all the members of your Chamber for all the comments made. Perhaps I have tasted it a little too optimistic, but I think I have also tasted support in several places for the packages as they are before us. I shall reply again in the order of the speakers. I shall begin by thanking Mrs Sent specifically for her support. She did make a comment on collective social security in Europe. She also made that remark in her first term. I think it is important to note that although we would like to contribute to greater security in Europe, the Cabinet would not consider it wise to establish a European social security system, given the hugely different situations in which Member States find themselves. I do not think I was asked whether I agreed with her 100%, but it might be good to make this distinction. I also agree with her that you should always learn lessons from the previous crisis. Can I say with caution that at least the Labour Party has done so? I would also refer to the first term of several speakers. Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Strien for his compliments. I'm afraid he's right. At least today it was a bridge too far. Sometimes that's the way it is in life. I would very much like to convince Mr Schalk, because I think his main concern is with public finances. I understand it's a lot of money. It's about billions again. At the same time, if you cook it back to what it means to literally spend for the Netherlands, it is really a much smaller amount. It is always about guarantees in these large amounts. It's much smaller amounts if you look at what it means to the government. The second thing I would like to mention in an attempt to draw Mr Schalk over the line is the following. I was in touch today with the agent of the Treasury Department, Elvira Eurlings. That is an excellent official who is borrowing all the billions that the cabinet is currently spending, but also, of course, in the pre-corona period. Also today she told me again that we are borrowing the money we are borrowing today with negative interest rates. I know Mr Schalk in such a way that he will have the challenge of telling me that money borrowed with negative interest will also have to be repaid once. I very much agree with him. And yet it matters. I do not have the dilemma that my predecessor Ruding had at the moment. With each additional edition, he immediately received many percentage points of extra interest on every extra euro borrowed. That dilemma does not relieve you of looking very closely at public finances in the short and long term, but it is of a different order than it was at the time. To the extent that Mr Schalk's main objections would be public finances, I hope that I have been able to draw him to my side along this road. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Backer for his comments and compliments. My perception was indeed that he was a bit grumpy. I just tried not to mirror that. I see his appreciation for the sensible four is growing. Can I put it that way? With regard to Germany, I would like to add one more thing. I have often argued here that Germany is, of course, our main ally in many areas, including in the financial and economic field. We are also very close, much more than ten or twenty years ago, to France. The perception of this French Government and in some respects of the Dutch Government has simply changed in some respects. That's why we're dealing with a different playing field than when the British were still in the game. This applies both to the French and to the Dutch. So that is a bridge that now exists much more than in the past. In addition, as a proxy for the loss of the British, we are also trying to work closely together with other like-minded countries, often with similar views on budgetary discipline, on a free market economy and also on standards and values and on what the rule of law has to do for Europe. I think it makes sense to make that bridge, too. So one does not exclude the other, but I would like to emphasise how important Germany is to the Netherlands. I know the country, I lived there, I have excellent contact with my German colleague. But in the end, what is true for each Member State is true for Germany. In the end, Germany chooses Germany, and every country will do so, given the relationship. Secondary Germany will then focus primarily on France, because that is of different kind from the Netherlands. In this context, it is important to look at many of these kinds of discussions. By the way, it is not the easiest but one of the most exciting parts of my portfolio, which I have often argued. I am literally in daily contact with a large number of my fellow Members in the Union. That eventually makes it easier to do business towards north, south, east and west. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u61	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-17.u62	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. First, the bill 35466, the third incidental supplementary budget on the employment and economic emergency package 2.0 and COVID-19 crisis measure SURE. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill later tonight. Finally, the bill 35492, the fifth incidental supplementary budget on COVID-19 crisis measures to increase IMF resources PRGT and EIB- pan-European guarantee fund, update IMF resources. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill later tonight. I shall then suspend the sitting for 20 minutes for the purpose of preparing the list of votes, which you will all receive.
