ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will proceed directly to the next motion debate, a VSO in response to the written consultation Questions about the message "Studies not equipped with gifted talent." For this VSO we can still rejoice in the presence of the Minister of Education, Culture and Science, and the Minister for Primary Education, Advanced Education and Media has also been appointed. Welcome to Mr Slob, too. This VSO has been requested by Mr Heerema, member of the VVD Group. I'll give him the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The VVD has a heart for the highly gifted students in education. We are pleased that most of the motions that we have put to the vote on them are widely supported by the Chamber. As a result of the written consultation, we see opportunities for doing something good for this group. I have two motions for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still insufficient attention to high level of competence in primary and secondary education, but there are occasional programmes to provide highly gifted pupils with the education that suits them;]] [[noting that the flow of highly skilled pupils to higher education may be good when higher education is more aware of this particular group of pupils who can enter;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with the National Network Foundation, to examine whether highly gifted pupils from primary and secondary education who need more challenge can make use of parts of or structural day-ends in higher education;]] [[calls on the Government also to examine with the same interview partners ways in which "a soft landing" can be achieved for highly gifted students who move to higher education, and to share the results with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-368]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u3	I very much agree with my VVD colleague that it is often a problem for highly gifted students and students to be able to participate in education. I find his motion to pay more attention to these students very sympathetic. He noted a problem for highly gifted students. Does this not also apply to pupils with, for example, autism or pupils with multiple disabilities? Is the VVD willing to do something for these students?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u4	We have seen many times in this Chamber that we are already doing a lot for those students who need some support on that side of the spectrum. For example, we have already done more for severely limited children. In our education, very little attention is paid to highly gifted pupils. They're often misappreciated. They often need more than the regular curriculum because this does not offer enough challenge. That's what we're trying to do. The written consultation was only about high talent and not about children with autism, dyslexia, dyscalculi or restrictions on the other side of the spectrum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u6	That's right. That written consultation had been requested by the VVD in order to address it specifically about high gift. That's fine, of course. My point is that we have to be careful to make a difference between high-genius and children with autism or multiple disability. They are different groups of pupils, all of whom are entitled to appropriate education. Let's make sure we do something for all these students instead of highlighting one group. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u7	Exactly. In the appropriate education, the groups mentioned by Mrs Westerveld do receive support and highly gifted people receive virtually no support. We are going to have that debate at a later date. If you're talking about differences between these groups, highly gifted students can't make enough use of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Kwint asks me to add him to the list of speakers and he has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you for your...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u10	...smoothness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u11	... coulance, chairman. I am opposed to the idea that in the appropriate education we have a great deal for care pupils or pupils with disabilities and that no one ever talks about gifted people. We have a whole evaluation of appropriate education.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have a specific question about Mr Heerema's proposal. It is good to see what you can do for gifted people and to facilitate them getting those additional challenges. However, it cannot be in the interest of a 13- or 14-year-old, for example, to leave their own school and take part in day-sharing at the university or in HBO. All you're asking for is an investigation. Do you recognise that we must ensure that we focus primarily on a challenging educational offer at the school itself, so with the classmates and with the peers? It should not be the case that, because schools are so busy, children feel forced to go to university two days a week at the age of 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u12	I very much agree with that. It's about the best place for a student. That'll be for a 13-year-old student with his boyfriends at school. But in children with an IQ of over 140 or 145, who need more challenge than the regular curriculum can offer, it may well be possible that a different type of education might think of HBO, something practical in the MBO, or a university might offer something that a regular school simply cannot offer. If you can offer these children that challenge by a simple linking of possibilities, you keep them in education. A large part of our failures are highly gifted. I would love it if we could continue to offer it the challenge they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u13	Proceed, Mr. Lordema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u14	I'll file the second motion soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that highly gifted students in higher education are not always sufficiently challenged intellectually and may be confronted with, for example, failure, too many incentives or other circumstances that create obstacles during study;]] [[noting that institutions are currently free to use resources from quality agreements to improve student welfare;]] [[noting that it is not yet sufficiently clear for highly gifted students how they can expect to receive support from the university or college;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage in discussions with the Foundation for National Networks Highly gifted in Higher Education (HB-HO), the VSNU and the Association of Colleges of Education to actively explore the possibilities of providing support to highly gifted students, for example from the profiling fund or from the funds released from the quality agreements, and to inform the Chamber before 1 February 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31497-369]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u16	It took some time for the other members to respond, I saw. Thank you for the collegiality. Then the cathedral will be cleaned and I will give the floor to Mrs Westerveld of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, not all kids have a good time at school. There are also children who go to school every day with stomach pains. You'll just be that parent of a child who's gifted and has a choice between bringing your child to school crying every day or letting your child home. That is, of course, an impossible choice. I would like to make it quite clear that this does not only apply to highly gifted children, but that, as I have just said, children with autism or multiple disabilities are sometimes also having a very difficult time in school. But I do have some questions for the Minister about the knowledge that there is. A few years ago, it was found that there is still too little knowledge in teacher training on children who, for example, are highly gifted. Minister Slob himself admitted that. I would like to ask him what has happened since then to ensure that people who become teachers already get to know enough about children who are gifted, for example. How did the discussions with, among other things, parent groups asking for attention to be given to this issue? So what happens now to ensure that children who are gifted can still get a suitable place at their own school, in their own neighborhood? I would be delighted if the Minister would respond to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Then we have reached the end of the term of office. The motions are now handed over to the directors. Let me see if they are able to respond immediately and give an appreciation of the motions tabled. That's the case. I give the floor to Minister Van Engelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with two motions and a question. Mr Slob will address Mrs Westerveld's motion. First of all, Mr Heerema's motion on item No. 368, asking for a warm transfer. Motions on student welfare and a warm transfer have previously been adopted in this Chamber, including the motions by Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Van Meenen and Mr Kwint. In his motion, Mr Heerema asks, together with the Stichting Nationale Netwerk Hooggegevende Hoger Onderwijs, to examine whether it is possible to use parts of higher education. That reconnaissance's already happening. That is already happening, so it is good that you give me another support here. And if I take the other request in this motion in such a way that I inform the Chamber about the activities that are being carried out at this point and the reconnaissance we are setting up to make that warm transfer so that the Chamber can judge whether it considers it sufficient, then I shall give this motion judgment Chamber. Then there is Mr Heerema's second motion. 369. Among other things, it's about the profiling fund. If your study delay is due to a disability, you may receive a benefit from the profiling fund. The profiling fund is not intended to cover the need for support. So the proposal in the motion does not match the character of the profiling fund. Higher education institutions are simply financed for the provision of facilities for highly skilled pupils. They should simply pay for this from the lumpsum and this is just part of their primary task. So that's not from the profiling fund. I agree that they need to be tailor-made, but we always like to leave that to the institutions themselves. I therefore advise against this motion, because this is not the job of the profiling fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u20	This is the same discussion we had at the p.o. and have the vo. In appropriate education, partnerships are financed to finance facilities for children who are highly gifted. But they don't. So I see that happening in higher education. The institutions get money for that, but they don't. The profiling fund was one of the parts where I thought: well, maybe there's space there. I have also looked at resources released from the quality agreements. Indeed, the freedom of higher education to support is not sufficiently fulfilled. How can we ensure that the institutions take up this responsibility? That's what I'm looking for. I hope you'll think along with me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u21	You know that the quality agreements are designed to improve the quality of education for all, so that includes better education for high-skilled people. But for this we made an explicit agreement that it is up to the institution, in cooperation with participation, to look at the national goals we have set and to agree on them. We are funding higher education institutions from the lump sum for something that I think is simply part of the core tasks of these institutions, namely teaching highly gifted people. If we then find that the institutions are still not doing enough in places, I do not think it is the right way and wrong way to say: then we will go to another game. If you ask me to appeal to the institutions in the administrative consultation, I will certainly do so. Because, of course, the institutions have a lot of space to deliver customization within the lumpsum and to give it its own content, but this is something that you and I think should just give the core of quality education. I will therefore appeal to the institutions in the administrative consultation. But I don't recommend this motion. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld had asked me another question, but I lost it. But I see now that Mr Slob is taking care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u22	I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Westerveld is actually asking what is happening on this subject in the direction of the different target groups that exist: parents, children, teachers in training, schools and so on. That gives me the opportunity to say the following very briefly. This is a subject that we have mentioned in the coalition agreement. Partly on this basis, the subsidy schemes have been put in place to allow schools to receive additional funding if they called on them to provide additional support to this target group. That's one. Two. We are in the process, and you know that because you have been informed about this earlier, of the creation of a knowledge centre of gift. We're in the middle of preparations right now. All this also needs to be tendered; you know that kind of rules around it. That's where we're at now. That knowledge centre is the place where parents, when it is fully furnished, will be able to find out if they have questions about gift. On teacher training, it was agreed that the curriculum should include the knowledge objective of educating teachers in order to recognise and respond to the educational needs of children with higher and higher abilities. That also gets a place in the curriculum. This is very important, because teachers of the future need to have knowledge that they can put into practice from day one as soon as they start working in schools. I am also working within the framework of my proposals for the new period of appropriate education in order to give a place there too to high-skills, also at the insistence of Mr Heerema, among others, who has kept this subject on a constant basis in recent years, also in our direction. In addition, we are in the process of ensuring that this subject is also given a place in the context of the warm transfer p.o., vo, higher education. We see that the transitions from one type of school to another sometimes do not go along, with all the consequences for the student concerned. So we are very much in the process of giving this subject a place. I am also pleased with that, because I think it is important that this target group, too, should have nothing to the detriment of others, because we should also be committed to having a place in our policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u24	A final brief question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u25	The Minister's telling us what he's doing. That is of course very nice, but there are now children who do not go to school because there is no suitable place for them at school. They now stand up every day with stomach pains and their parents are now faced with an impossible choice. I would like to hear from the Minister what is happening now to ensure that these children also get a place, preferably at a school nearby.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u26	First of all, we are ensuring, as I have just said, that schools can receive additional funding to make extra use of it. So that's already going on, that's not something we're gonna do. That has already been started in recent years, and you have also been reported on this. The second is that we are now engaged in discussions, including with parents' organisations, in the context of appropriate education and the situation of homeowners, which sometimes include highly gifted people. Moreover, there is sometimes a combination of other problems, such as autism. We are having these talks to make sure that we are able to make a good connection to the very concrete measures that we want to take to give these children a place in education as well. As far as this hot transfer is concerned, these are talks that are already taking place, including with the representatives of the school types. That's not something we're gonna do next year. No, it could just be picked up by now. In good contact with the people involved, including the parents, we try to make the most of this and make sure that there is real movement in the subject. I think this cabinet period has worked well, but we haven't arrived yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u27	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the VSO in response to questions about the message "Studies not equipped with gifted talent."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-7.u28	The vote on the motions tabled is next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for Education, Culture and Science for coming to the Chamber. We will continue with the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
