ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday. Today we begin with Mr Stoffer's questions on behalf of the SGP to the Secretary of State for Defence, whom I would also like to welcome, about not moving from the Marine Firehouse to Vlissingen. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. How do we deal with Zeeland and what about Vlissingen? That is the question I am putting to you this afternoon and to which I, and many Zeeuws with me, would like an answer. In 2012, the Minister of Defence indicated that Doorn's Marine Station would move to Vlissingen. That was to strengthen the Zeeland economy, because many government services have left Zeeland. In June 2014, the next Minister of Defence signed the contract with the commissioner of the King of Zeeland. The question is, what's that signature worth? This is also about the reliability of the government. For several weeks now, it has been written in various media that the cabinet is considering not moving the barracks to Vlissingen. I, and with me the Zeeuwen and I also estimate the marines, want to know whether there are now a decision, a draft decision, a thought or memos regarding the removal of the barracks. The Secretary of State has even traveled to Zeeland and has spoken to administrators there, but from the press and also from Zeeland we know that this conversation is experienced differently from both sides. The main thrust of Zeeland is that the Secretary of State has constantly stressed that no alternative scenarios are being investigated, whereas that seems to be different now. Mr. Chairman. In short, I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. How does the Secretary of State feel about the government dealing with Zeeland's interests and with them the Marines? What is the value of that signature under the contract with Zeeland of the Minister of Defence in 2014? More specifically, what is the real state of affairs? Is there a draft decision regarding the relocation of the Marine Station? Or are all kinds of scenarios being investigated at the moment and is there nothing more than that? I'd like an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you also to Mr Stoffer. Let me begin by answering his questions. If his question is how do I look back on it: I hate the process, in the sense that you want to consult with each other when it comes to dilemmas. That is also the dilemma which the cabinet has discussed and which I have also informed you about. Because we agreed to move to Zeeland in 2012. That is what I feel bound to do, and that is also the administrative agreement you are referring to, namely the Zeeland employment and the Zeeland economic structure. On the other hand, as Secretary of State for Defence, I am also responsible for the future stability and continuity of the corps. We have also shared with your Room several times, when it comes to preservation and recruitment, which means if you have too high an outflow. That is also the dilemma facing the cabinet. On the one hand, how do you guarantee uncertainty and insecurity at this time, at a labour market that attracts and where you see a large outflow, with on the other hand also a responsibility to Zeeland when it comes to the agreements that have been made there? That's what I shared with you two weeks ago through a letter of inquiry. So no decision has yet been taken by the cabinet. I have also indicated to you that at the end of this quarter we can come back to you with a proposal. I shall deal with the questions raised by Mr Stoffer. On one side the corps and how do we look at it, on the other side Zeeland and what does that mean, and there will be a new decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the Secretary of State for answering my questions. Let me be honest with you. It's not what I really want to know. I just want to know, is that barracks going to Vlissingen or not? Anyway, I understand from the letter that that will take a few weeks. I do insist on urgency, and I would like to say something about that, because I feel that I am constantly chasing ghosts. Because in this case, too, it seems that the media are getting information sooner than we are getting it as a Chamber. Why do we now get a limited note from the Secretary of State and not a clear timeline with what has been decided about? The question to which this refers is also a question which particularly lives in Zeeland: what can Zeeland, what can the Zeeland leaders expect from the Secretary of State in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. No new decision has been taken by the cabinet. I have indicated what the dilemma is. That is the dilemma of future stability and the continuity of the corps on the one hand and responsibility towards Zeeland on the other. And just because it's a big decision, with an impact on both sides, is also indicating that we want to talk to Zeeland. The Zeeland drivers have indicated that we do not recognise that dilemma, because we made agreements with you in 2012. But we do want to look at the concerns about the future resilience and continuity of the corps. Mr Stoffer asked about the state of play in these talks. That's where we stand now. And when it comes to pieces or whatever, it goes without saying that the Chamber will get those documents. But that is what we do when we have made a decision. A complete dossier is then sent along with the documents underlying the decision-making process. It's just that no new decision has been taken yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u7	All right, so I understand from the Secretary of State that we will have a timeline at the end of March, describing what has happened in the last period. I understand from the answer that has now been given in this Chamber that scenarios are being worked out. Let's say it's a scenario that that barracks doesn't go to Vlissingen. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, as far as employment and economic prospects are concerned, Zeeland should be compensated at least as much as what has been thought and conceived in that context around the barracks in Zeeland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u8	We're not there yet. I have indicated that we will look at the economic structure and employment if we come to a review. But we haven't made that decision yet. So I can't anticipate the like-dan question either. Mr Stoffer rightly points out that there are agreements with Zeeland. The things that have been agreed on must be respected in any case. But what the outcome is going to be, we don't know until the end of March. If it had been an easy decision, that decision would have been easy. But that's not the case. The question of what it means also immediately indicates the dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finally. In particular, I would like to say to the Secretary of State that for our group it is very clear that Zeeland really needs to come out in terms of employment and economic prospects. This should be in line with what was foreseen in 2012 and also signed in 2014. I would like to give the cabinet the following: beware, the Netherlands is bigger than the Randstad. Zeeland also needs real economic prospects and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u11	The Secretary of State has just informed us that she is sick of the whole process. The Zeeuws suck too. They write to the Prime Minister that the behaviour of the Secretary of State has seriously damaged mutual trust. This is based, as we have heard from the media, on a decision by the Secretary of State, on which she would have informed the coalition groups. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. We can't pretend nothing happened. The Secretary of State has made a decision in her head. Is it prepared to forward to the Chamber immediately all the documents on which that decision is based and to report to us what has been discussed with the other groups so that we, as well as the Zeeuws, can take advantage of all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u12	No decision has been made, so I'm not going to share any pieces or anything with you either. I will when a decision is made. It is true that there are concerns. I've shared that with the Chamber several times. There are concerns from the Department of Defense and also from the Chamber. The Chamber has spoken with me on several occasions about the strength of the corps's future and what moving to Vlissingen would mean. We talked about that. If a decision is taken, you will, of course, receive the information on which it is based. We will support that decision, whatever it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u13	This is not only horrible for Zeeland, but also for the Secretary of State, who is faced with a 2012 decision by Minister Hillen. As D66, we asked for a pass to be made, because there was a lot of unrest in the marines and we were concerned about how we could keep this important military unit alive. My question is, what about the Marines? This aspect is less addressed in public opinion. Is there more outflow? Can you tell us about the circumstances in the barracks where they are now, how things stand and what it means to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u14	The current barracks are Doorn. For those who have been there, I say that the state will not be easy for you, because it has not been invested in it for a long time. In any case, this means that investment must be made. In 2012 they also reviewed whether they could stay in Doorn. It came out that it couldn't. That's why another location has been looked at. Otherwise, we wouldn't have had this discussion with each other. When it comes to the outflow, there are mainly concerns about the experienced marines. That was also shared with your room in a round table. Then I'm talking about the Marines who have a permanent contract. For those who are initiated: that is phase 3. Actually, our concern concerns the outflow of Petty Officers. That's what you want to keep, because that's what men are, now they're just men who make sure that the new people who are being trained get the right knowledge and experience. That's where our concern lies. That is also why this dilemma has emerged, because if there were no worries about it, we would not have had this dilemma on the table either. That is why we have put this on the agenda, knowing that there are agreements with Zeeland, which of course we also respect. In the end, a decision must be taken on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mrs Belhaj's second question on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for this good explanation. I just heard Mr Stoffer say something similar. In the discussion about Vlissingen it is also very often about that it would not be in the Randstad. I am very sorry about that, and I think it is serious, and I am fully aware that the Zeeuws feel hurt about the way things are going. But I would also like the Secretary of State to explain to the Chamber why this group of Marines is so special, how many months they are away from home, what their private life looks like and why it's important to really listen to these Marines before we don't have them anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr President, I am going to try to reply briefly. As you know, the Marine Corps is being deployed a lot. On average, they are 20 weeks a year away from home for exercises. I am not even talking about the commitment they make when it comes to, for example, the anti-piracy missions that are now being carried out. So it's a unit that's being deployed a lot. That also means they're a lot from home. That is a concern shared with you, including in the round table. If you're already so much away from home, you want to be close to family when you get back to the Netherlands and you don't want to leave your partner as a single mother or father. That's important. So it's a unit that's used a lot and that's a lot from home. Therefore, there are also concerns about a move to a place that is farther away than where they are now, in Doorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u18	I've always learned in the past: promise makes guilt. Now they're making circular movements. No decision has yet been made. That could mean that the cabinet is not going to keep the promise. Does the Secretary of State realise that this would damage the credibility of the entire policy, not only the credibility of the cabinet, but also ours?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yes. That's why I said I'm really upset. You are right to call me on that. I do think I have a responsibility as Secretary of Defense. I am also responsible for the permanence and continuity of the corps. This is also about creating this dilemma, because this is also what we stand for, precisely in an attractive labour market. When we look at the ageing rate towards 2040, we see how difficult it is to attract marines. In addition, you have to meet certain requirements and this is becoming more and more difficult. That is why this dilemma has come up. Of course, you'd love to keep all your appointments. We would not have had this discussion. But this discussion didn't just come up. This has also been done in the context of debates with your Chamber, where there have also been specific concerns about this: how are we going to get the recruitment of the Marines in order at all, now and in the future? That's why this conversation is taking place, but I get your call and I share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u20	It is good to hear the Secretary of State say clearly that the trial is terribly bad. Of course, we share that opinion with her. Perhaps she can say something about what the process, not only towards Zeeland but also towards the Chamber, will look like in the coming weeks. Perhaps the question can be taken into account as to whether the report on which De Telegraaf, among others, speaks today, is indeed there and whether, for example, it will also be available to the Chamber and to Zeeland, so that we but certainly also Zeeland can think along with these dilemmas of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u21	We are happy to discuss this with Zeeland. In any case, Zeeland has indicated what there is and what there is no talking about. It has been very clearly stated that the cabinet's dilemma is not recognised, but that there is a willingness to consider the conservation and recruitment of marines and what the region itself could do about it in the broad sense. But about the exact way we are going to do that, there is consultation with Zeeland, with the municipality of Vlissingen and of course also with the waterboard involved. At the end of this quarter, when it comes to the trial, I will come forward with a proposal on behalf of the Cabinet, which will at least provide a basis, including any reports, if a decision is taken on this dossier. That's pretty soon, I must say, at the end of this quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u22	I understand that the Secretary of State himself acknowledges that all kinds of things have gone wrong, including in communication with Zeeland, and that there is, of course, great uncertainty at the moment in Zeeland about whether the barracks are still going on, especially in the light of the previous commitments of this cabinet and of the previous cabinet that that barracks would be built. In addition, many organisations and public authorities have been withdrawn in the meantime. I'll ask the Secretary of State if she goes into those open-eyed conversations. Is the option of the barracks in Zeeland still on the table, or does she say: well, are we moving them to the background now? Are both options on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u23	In the conversation with Zeeland I outlined the dilemma from the cabinet. The following has been very clearly indicated by Zeeland: we do not recognize your dilemma, but we would like to talk to you about the implementation of the barracks, so the realization. It depends on how exactly we are going to do that, but for the cabinet, the dilemma is still standing. In the end, we will have to take a decision on this, weighing both interests together. You're gonna have to figure out a few things for that. That is also what the conversation with Zeeland is meant for. So that means that there is still an open sight. In addition, a decision has not been taken by the cabinet, but the dilemma has been discussed and we also see that we have to choose between them in the end. There could be all kinds of outcomes. I can't anticipate that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u24	Sometimes a very clear pattern is visible. A few months ago we talked about Herwijnen, where a new radar tower had to be placed. Today it's about Zeeland. This afternoon we are going to talk about Friesland, or longer as far as I am concerned. These are all regions and governments that are surprised by the decision-making or planned decision-making of the Defence Department. Another pattern that you can recognize is that the Secretary of State apologizes on an equestrian basis if that trial went wrong. Others could take another example. But you can't always see clearly whether that is the result of a conscious strategy or a sequence of clues. The question that comes to my mind is: why did things turn out this way in the case of Zeeland? The Secretary of State apologized for the trial two weeks ago. Then Zeeland wouldn't have had to read from the paper just now that there was a report? Wouldn't they have gotten it from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u25	This really is a dilemma. I feel bound by the agreements made in 2012. But we're eight years away. There is a changing situation in the world. We see that maintaining and recruiting personnel is a real challenge at the Marine Corps. That makes me think you should have the courage to discuss that dilemma, too. Otherwise, you would blame me for not looking at those figures with an open vision and not worrying about them. I just got asked if I'm in it with an open shot. That is a dilemma you want to discuss with each other and then with the region. You're absolutely right about that. I regret that part of it has been in the newspapers and that it has gone that way, because you prefer to do so in front. In any case, I think that this dilemma leads to discussion, with your Chamber, with the province of Zeeland and with the municipality of Vlissingen, precisely because it is such an important decision, also for Zeeland itself as a province and for the municipality of Vlissingen. We really need to have this conversation with each other. In addition, Zeeland clearly indicates what his position is. I understand that and I fully understand that they say: we are going for the realization, because that agreement was made in the past. On the other hand, at least I said from the cabinet: we also have that responsibility for the corps. If there are facts and information, I will, of course, discuss it with Zeeland. If there is a decision, I will, of course, discuss it with the Chamber, including the information underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u27	The Secretary of State says that since we made that decision, eight years have passed. That is indeed a long time and then anything can happen. But there has been a certain moment when that decision has become a review, or when that promise has become a dilemma. My question to the Secretary of State is: when was that and why was the Secretary of State not talking at the time, with all those involved, but certainly with the people in Vlissingen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u28	The discussion, including with your Chamber, about the Marine Corps and the influx and recruitment has been going on for a long time. Last year there was a big round table in the Chamber, where several marines left messages to express their concerns. But you don't take this decision lightly if you come to such a reconsideration. That means you have to explore at all: is that an option? What would it mean? Are there any other locations at all? That is something that requires care and time. We have not yet taken that decision, but we have shared the dilemma, including that it will have consequences. That is also what we have done on the basis of the figures around the outflow. As Secretary of State for Defence, I feel my responsibility to the staff, not only now, but also for the future, and for the continuity of the Marine Corps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u30	I hear the Secretary of State again about a dilemma, but wasn't that the same last year? And it was a long time ago, wasn't it? Are we really not even a step further than to outline a dilemma? How is it that there has been so much delay on this dossier and that these promises have simply not been fulfilled much earlier? Isn't it true that this lack of clarity can lead to outflow again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u31	It could be. As you know, you have been in this Chamber for quite some time. That's when the Marines left a very specific message. That has been the reason to look at it. I have been asked in various debates in the Chamber: what are you doing about it, have you looked at it and what are the options? Mrs Belhaj spoke in the last debate about a number of options on the table. That's what we've been looking at. Can you do it faster? I wish. I would also like this ambiguity to be removed as soon as possible. That was also Mr Van Helvert's question in order to clarify this dilemma as soon as possible. He asked to give this explanation as a cabinet and to involve the Chamber and the region. I take this recommendation from Mr Van Helvert to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you.
