ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Defence and give Mr Stoffer the floor on behalf of the SGP for his questions on the postponement of planned investments in the defence sector. I call Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday's Telegraph opened with the headline "Defensie is back to square one." Peace and security cannot be negotiated, because the world is and remains unsafe and geopolitical tensions do not make it any better. After years of severe austerity, the Department of Defense has just begun to step up a bit in recent years. That is very necessary and we, as SGP, are very content with it. Yet we are far from there, because the interim report on the Integrated Foreign and Security Strategy recently stated that the Netherlands cannot contribute enough to NATO and that we are lagging behind in terms of money, opportunities and contribution. In some areas, Russia even has a lead over NATO. Alarming! As far as we're concerned, the DOD shouldn't be the first child in the account. Following the article underneath that headline in De Telegraaf, "Defensie is back to square one," I have the following questions to the Minister. The first one. Is the review note, which was scheduled for the summer, actually being postponed? If that is the case, what does this mean for planned investments, for example for submarines? That is my second question. Does the Minister agree that such projects cannot be postponed from a strategic point of view? The most important question: is this cabinet going to put the dot on the horizon? 2% of gross domestic product in what year? 2024 might be tricky. Isn't it, as Germany says fairly, but will it be in 2030? Is that answer still coming from this cabinet? Those are my questions at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Stoffer for his questions. I must say that I agree with his introduction. The need for investment in Defense remains high. I will continue to make every effort to do so, and you can be sure of that. Then I'll come to your questions. Your first question is: is the review note, which we call Defence Vision, being postponed? I have already said in the legislative consultation on the Defence Equipment Budget Fund that we will not make it before the summer, but that it will be September. The note will be presented after the summer. It looks fifteen years ahead, not specifically about today's investments, but about the long lines towards the future, which Mr Stoffer and the SGP and a large part of the Chamber always call for. Delaying the Defence Vision does not mean postponing investment projects. That was your second question. It is not the case that investment projects are postponed by us. They're all going through with it. As you know, we have decided on a number of projects. We've decided to replace the submarines. The same goes for the M-frigates. For this, purchasing processes are now in progress. As you know, we have decided to invest in the F-35: nine extra pieces, which have been ordered by now. Those investments go on. The cabinet has also always said that the EUR 1.5 billion that it invests extra annually in Defense is an important first step towards recovery and renewal. But it's obvious to me that more is needed. I will continue to work for that. This means that we are also looking at the agreements such as the 2% and how we should get there in long-term terms. That's part of the Defence vision. As you know, at the moment we are also the third in our figures when it comes to NATO investments. As you know, I do not think that is enough for a country such as ours and given the unpredictability of the threats. We too must keep to the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	The answers to my first two questions are clear. Okay, we're gonna click on it. All these investments stand, stand and we continue. But on my most important question, namely whether this cabinet is going to secure the 2%, the Minister says: as far as I am concerned, yes. Yeah, that's right. On 1 May last, in a Family7 broadcast, the Minister said 'there may be more need' and 'a deal is a deal'. My question is again: will the 2% be clicked on before the next elections, during this cabinet period? I also ask the question: what is the Minister's view of this agreement? I'd like to name it. As far as I am concerned, that is 2% gross domestic product in 2024. So, do we stick to that "a deal is a deal"? I see some evasive answers in the first period, so I hope this will improve in the second period. I have to tell you, I have a bit of a hard head for that, but I still have a little bit of faith. If not, I would point out that we have another international agreement. This has been enforced in a court of law, namely in the Urgenda case. If I don't get an answer to my follow-up question right now, should we really start a lawsuit like this in order to raise the level of defence investment according to the agreement we made internationally? I want clear answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is clear that Mr Stoffer also knows that we will not make 2024. That's the deal there was. We have indicated that with these figures we are unable to achieve this. We have to report that to NATO every year. That's what we'll discuss with your room. The Defense Department's vision is 15 years ahead. I've told you what my stakes are. As far as I am concerned, a deal is a deal, not so much because 2% is a certain dogma, but because there are all the investments that are needed to defend ourselves. You know that we cannot do this alone at the moment. We can only do it together with NATO, in the NATO context. If you are a member of the alliance, you must also meet the agreed obligations. The aim of the Defence Vision is to look into these long lines and to indicate a real timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Then there's my final question. It's still open, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Very well done, and all I need to do is say yes or no: is that 2% with a year added in this cabinet period or not? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	I can't tell you that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	That's clear. That's a no. I am really very disappointed about that, because safety is really an ultimate public interest. Safety is really essential, or let me make it stronger: vital.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have to conclude that this cabinet, with CDA and VVD in it, unfortunately does not secure that 2% and in that respect simply trades with our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	It's clear what my bet is. That's what I've been saying all along. We can't make it now, in this period. We're investing a hell of a lot more in Defense. This year too, in this budget, extra money has been added. We had to give a real path to NATO. We have done this in part with the NATO plan we have made. The fact that we do not achieve 2% in 2024 is also clear. As far as I am concerned, the fact that we do have to do so remains clear. I'll be committed to that at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	However, I would ask the Minister to clarify the delay. Because in the note that she has now postponed publication, the vision and perspective would be on what kind of army we need. As far as the SP is concerned, we do not need distant armies, but many more nurses. The Minister seems to be merely denying that there is a delay. I would like to add that the Minister is able to respond that the purchase of submarines has been postponed, that the note has been postponed and that in the debate on accountability all kinds of human problems have emerged. So even if the minister had all the money, she couldn't put it away. Doesn't the minister just have an organizational problem of his own? Perhaps it is quite right that finance should set different priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	I do not agree with Mrs Karabulut. I agree with what Mr Stoffer said in the Chamber. Why was the DOD's vision postponed? Well, that's pretty simple. I really wanted to present it in June. I have already indicated this in the Chamber. But we've had a corona crisis. In other words, we have been very busy with our third national task, namely to support care. I myself went to the hospital in Ede last Friday to see our last nurses and doctors out of there. I wish I hadn't had the corona crisis, just like everyone else. That's why we're postponing the Defence vision to September. There's no other reason. In that view, we are giving a glimpse of what is needed. The views of Mrs Karabulut of the SP and I are simply different in that respect. I think, with Mr Stoffer, that the world is unpredictable. Just look at something like the corona crisis and the commitment in support that this one has requested from the Defense Department. We must take this into account in a new Defence vision, looking at the third main task. It is not the case that submarines have been postponed in that sense. That decision has been taken and the process for that is just going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	Still, it's a little bit gnawy. The said newspaper is not the only one to indicate that certain investments are being postponed. One does not happen to come to the conclusion that this is the case. The Minister assures us that this is only about the play. That will come later, but the investment plan remains the same. At the same time, the Minister cannot guarantee that the 2% will actually be achieved. In fact, the pursuit of this is part of a kind of delta plan of defense, after the entire military force has been stripped in all facets for decades. How can the Minister guarantee us that these plans will actually go ahead and that the 2% will actually be reached within the agreed time? This should not be another game of political change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	I cannot guarantee that this 2% will be achieved in 2024, because our figures do not give rise to this at the moment. That's exactly what I've been telling you. Our path doesn't give us any reason to say we're gonna make it to 2%. What I can guarantee you is that we're investing extra in Defense, more than ever. It is also more than ever necessary that we continue to invest in Defense, as the threat becomes more unpredictable. I totally share that with you. If you look at what we have achieved, our investment rate is now higher than ever. That is why I distance myself from the fact that we are delaying all kinds of things. We are above NATO standards with our investment rate. That's 23.9%. That's higher than we've ever had. There is therefore no question of the removal of investment. That image needs to be taken away. We buy a supply ship, we replace the mine hunters, we have decided to invest in Apache helicopters, we have invested in the personal equipment of personnel and we also invest a lot in personnel, IT, etc. So there is a lot of investment. Is that enough? No. Should we invest more in the future? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Voordewind. I see he's being distracted by Mrs. Belhaj. I call Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	We talked for a moment about the fact that with a falling GDP the 2% will of course come back into a new light, but that is not our intention, not even that of the Christian Union. We want a bigger investment budget. That's what the Minister's been trying to do. In doing so, the Defence Equipment Fund, as proposed by Mrs Belhaj and I, for which the Minister also proposed a law. Can the Minister say once again that there is no money from the investment budget, which will soon be committed to the Defence Equipment Fund and that there is no money from the Defence budget, not even in this corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	The answer is yes to that. Fortunately, the law was passed in the Upper Chamber. That's good to say, too. This means that we are going to set up the Defence Equipment Budget Fund in the next budget. That means you're getting more insight into that. We are also doing this with Mr Voordewind's amendment, which will enable you to look more closely at it. At the moment, there is no question of money going away from investment. In fact, we're investing extra in a number of things. That's clip-and-ready. So we're higher than ever. You are absolutely right that if our GDP is running, we are closer to 2%. That's not good, because we're gonna need more money eventually. That was a justified point by Mr Stoffer. When we look at real estate, when we look at staff, when we look at what's going on, we eventually need more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you.
