ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mr Sjoerdsma's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, whom I warmly welcome. She replaces the Foreign Minister and the question is about a party meeting at the American Embassy in The Hague. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber, we are always focused on foreign interference, especially in the run-up to elections. That is why I would like to speak about a meeting at the American Embassy for one Dutch political party. On Thursday 10 September this took place and De Groene confirms that the goal was to raise money for that one party. It was discussed how much that party needed to be able to campaign. The invitation was signed by the main fundraiser of this party and the guests were wealthy entrepreneurs, sympathizers, potential donors. As Americans would say: If it looks like a duck, if it swims like a duck, if it quacks like a duck, it is most probably a duck. So it has all the appearance of a fundraising meeting. Mr. Chairman. It is not just an unwritten agreement that diplomats do not interfere in internal affairs, it is also a written agreement. The Vienna Convention is crystal clear on this. I quote Rule 41 (1) 'They also have a duty not to interfere with the internal affairs of that State'. And Article 41 (3): "The premises of the consignment shall not be used in a manner incompatible with the functions of that consignment." My questions. Can the Cabinet confirm that this evening was indeed a fundraising night? Is it true that at least one of the participants promised them €20,000 that night? Is it true that the invitations were sent from the head of fundraising and, if so, was Ambassador Hoekstra aware of this? How does this relate to the Vienna Convention and will the cabinet ask the American Embassy for a text and explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to Mr Sjoerdsma for his questions. The cabinet is of course familiar with the coverage in De Groene Amsterdammer. To give a broader picture of Ambassador Hoekstra's general performances and policy: he invests a lot in contacts in Dutch society, as one would expect from a foreign representative. We expect our diplomats to do the same. So he has talks with politicians and also acts on invitation. These choices are always up to the ambassador, but cannot, of course, be incompatible with what is meant by diplomatic work. That's the lead. As regards the questions about what is specifically reported in De Groene, there has already been contact with the American embassy this morning. Mr Hoekstra himself is currently outside the Netherlands. The contact shows that the embassy sends invitations for townhalls to all political parties. Some have also taken advantage of this on an earlier occasion. A town hall such as that organized by the American Embassy is indeed an open conversation in which ideas can be exchanged. Indeed, there should be no specific preference, let alone fundraising for parties. We have been assured at the U.S. embassy that the invitations to townhall meetings have been sent to all parties. There must be no fundraising. That is also American policy. There can also be no videos that have a certain promotional character. It is true, as you say, that Article 41.1 states that diplomats should not interfere in the internal affairs of the host country. The interpretation of interference may vary over time and depends on the circumstances, but foreign support for fundraising in places of an embassy is of course not included. There will also be legislation banning donations to political parties from outside the EU and the EEA. So we have heard from the embassy that this is part of generic policy, with regard to an open embassy and the possibility for discussion. The embassy has a policy to rule out the sensitivities you speak of. We do not know whether the Ambassador was aware of the signing by the Head of the Fundraising Forum for Democracy. There will be a follow-up meeting with Ambassador Hoekstra on his return to the Netherlands on the basis of the additional questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you to this Minister for her reply. Thank you also for making it very clear what foreign diplomats in this country can and cannot do, and for making it clear that fundraising for a political party is not one of them. I understand that perhaps not all of my questions can be answered now, but certainly the questions whether funds were asked for that evening, whether there was talk about the campaign fund of Forum of that party; whether the invitations have been sent from the main fundraising and whether money has been committed, are all questions that are relevant for the United States ambassador, Mr Hoekstra, to clarify them, because as I am listening to the Minister, it is going to cross the border of what an ambassador can do in this country. I think it is very important that we get these facts up and running as quickly as possible and that we are absolutely certain of what has happened here. This is important for the ambassador, which is important for the cabinet, and that is important for the Netherlands, because you do not want to interfere in any way with our democracy, not now and not in the run-up to the elections. Mr. Chairman. I would like to follow up on the questions that have been asked before, and I assume that they will be answered by letter after the meeting with Ambassador Hoekstra, whether it is very clear from the Dutch side that such meetings will never take place for our diplomats abroad. It is good, I think, to find that we would never do so, but also, suppose that this fundraising meeting actually took place, to determine the consequence of what the cabinet draws from what appears after research. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in a more general sense, because in six months' time elections will be held and they will have to be conducted safely and without interference. I would also like to ask the cabinet to give clear in writing to all embassies what can and cannot be done during our elections. Let us put that very clearly on paper once again, because it is not just this case that we have to worry about. We've seen plenty of other cases in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	I can indeed, on behalf of the cabinet, undertake to answer the questions in letter format on the basis of the discussion with Ambassador Hoekstra. With regard to the role of the embassy and what the embassy knew or didn't know, this is a factual finding. When it comes to the scope of making it clear to all foreign representations in the Netherlands in the run-up to the elections what is expected under the Vienna Treaty, that is step two, I would say. Let us first establish in a conversation whether there are any details that we do not have now, in order to get an overall picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	It is very good that the cabinet will ask the American ambassador for text and explanation. It is very good that my questions will be passed on and also very important that they should then be sent back to this Parliament in a letter, which states not only what has happened, but also what the cabinet thinks of what has happened. For let us hope that this has indeed not been a fundraising meeting as described by the Greens. That would be very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I have Mr Van Ojik, Mr Azarkan and Mr Baudet. Yeah? Mr Van Ojik. Are you guys gonna decide who's gonna come first? Yeah? Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Yes, I have a question for the Minister. How does she feel about a politician getting a penthouse in Scheveningen gift from an ambassador in exchange for support for a controversial trade treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	Well, that's a lot of assumptions. I think you have had a lot of debate on this. Mr Pechtold himself has already given a specific explanation at the right time. I think I'm throwing your framing and your theorem far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's not the issue at all, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	Well, that is the issue, because that is something that really happened. A whole circus is being rigged here about something that is totally out of the question and is, in fact, all wrong. But this is something that did happen. Pechtold got that penthouse from that Canadian ambassador, and that was a private matter back then. I have one more question. What does the Minister think about George Soros investing more than 5 million a year in left-wing activist clubs in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	Those are the words of Mr Baudet. George Soros is indeed a well-known philanthropist. Through his Open Society and other charities, he has worked for democracy, an open playing field and the strength of civil society. Fortunately, that is no longer necessary at this time to mention the left or right, that is to say the rights, human rights and organisations that operate in countries where they are oppressed and where, I think, the support has been extremely relevant at important moments. I am very sorry about the framing, but I have indeed read what Mr Baudet thinks about it. That is all in Mr Baudet's words. I also think it is a bad accusation against Mr Soros.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	No, Mr. Baudet, you really need to respect the rules a little bit. Anyone may ask two questions during oral Question Time. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that the Minister is taking it up for Mr Soros in her reply. Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned the Vienna Convention, which states that diplomatic representatives are not supposed to interfere in the internal affairs of the country in which they are established. The treaty is from 1961, so 60 years old. Since then, a great deal has happened, among other things, I think, in recent years, unfortunately, a certain horror of the diplomatic movement, in which unfortunately the American ambassador also has his share. He tweeted yesterday about Clingendael, which is an institution that does very bad research. Is there no reason to reconsider that article, not just in relation to the elections, but more generally, internationally, and to examine whether it should not be updated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	Indeed, the Vienna Convention was drawn up at a time when both protocols and treaty codes were clear to all those who went into diplomatic traffic. There are always times to see it in a new light, to be honest, even when it comes to protecting the diplomats themselves when they go into countries where their role is often put in a bad light, for example, because they express themselves about human rights. In many countries, that is precisely an undesirable interference in domestic affairs. So it is a very important treaty. I'm taking this request with me. Mr Blok will come back to that at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	I fell straight back, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	Of what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	From the coverage we're talking about. For a year we have turned the mosques inside out because we did not like foreign interference, while on the other hand we see that, for example, Mr Wilders comes to the Israeli embassy very much. We have seen that the Christian Union has had a motion co-written by an employee. We see that Mr Baudet at the American embassy uses...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'm going to interrupt you. We have an oral question on an article. If you want to ask each other about who's involved in what... No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	I'd like to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	That is what you get: then I have to give everyone the floor to respond, and that is not what oral Question Time is for. You will have the floor, Mr Baudet, just to make a personal statement. Soon Mr. Wilders will be back and have you mentioned any other members, Mr. Azarkan? Then we can start a new debate. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	I think that the country would be too small if, for example, a party like DENK at.............................................................................................................................................................................................. And rightly so, we don't. But I think the Minister can be more firm in this. Does the Minister have any idea of that involvement? Don't you think it's time for an investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	There are a number of questions here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Baudet would like to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Azarkan just spoke of "intimate union" while the invitation from the US Embassy to hold such a meeting was sent to all political parties. Mr Azarkan also knows that, because just before this debate began, he said to me: do you have a telephone number for me, because I want to organize something like this from DENK at the American embassy. Then I told him, "I'll give you that number in a minute." So he sees a game of shit in here. He also knows there's nothing going on. Too bad, Mr. Azarkan!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you for sharing that with all of us. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	There was a statement or a question from Mr Azarkan. We have had a first contact with the embassy and we first of all rely on the assurance given us by the American embassy that the guidelines as they are stated have not been applied to fundraising, a clear framework. But there will be a second discussion with Ambassador Hoekstra, also on the basis of the questions asked by Mr Sjoerdsma. I shall return to this in a letter, which gives a weighting of course how the Vienna Treaty has played a role in this. I do not want to anticipate what we all think if we have not yet been able to make a factual statement and have not yet been able to give the American embassy a reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	Imagine, indeed, that in order to give an example, the Chinese ambassador would say to the Dutch government: you need to move harder in the matter of MH17 towards Russia; you need to take back IS fighters, IS prisoners from Syria. That any party, take the CDA, at a party meeting would invite people with co-signatory from the Chinese ambassador. Then I can assure you that the world and this Chamber would be too small and that we would rightly say that this is undesirable interference in domestic affairs. In this case it is foreign interference in Dutch elections. Then I wonder...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	..what else needs to be done to call this ambassador on the mat and, if necessary, point out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	As I said before, we cannot yet reach an overall conclusion. The first discussion revealed that the embassy has complied with the guidelines set out in American policy. There are additional questions that we are going to ask. We await Ambassador Hoekstra's return. Then there will be a feedback to the Chamber in the form of a letter containing all the information and a final weighing of the cabinet. At the moment it is not wise to do so, because we do not have the overall picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	Now that Mr Baudet is so eagerly ahead, he may also be able to answer some of these questions immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	No, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	Was it a fundraising meeting? Was the head of the fundraiser there? Were they asking for money? That's gonna save you a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	No, Mr. Sjoerdsma. If you want to know that, you will have a separate debate with him on this subject. I thank the Minister for her answers.
