ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the second and third supplementary budgets, Rooms 35442 and 35452, and on the consequences of the corona crisis in the LNV area. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	I am the first speaker to speak on behalf of the Animal Party, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	Long time no see!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yeah, long time no see. It's suddenly an LNV week in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	And it's about time. Mr. Chairman. Today we have a joint debate on the support packages decided upon by the Cabinet and on the impact of the corona crisis on animals, which the Party for Animals has requested at an early stage, and on agriculture as a whole. With your permission, I would like to return briefly to the debate we had yesterday on the mink. If there is one consequence of the corona crisis for animals, then it is in mink farming. Two proposals have been tabled from the Chamber. One proposal, from the Animal Party and the Labour Party, says: lay down, on the basis of the land with which you also have other sectors restrict a breeding ban on mink farming, just in accordance with the measures taken by the Cabinet in other sectors as well. This means that you limit the risk of public health, but that you do not have to compensate for huge amounts, because you remain in the same system. There is also a proposal from CDA and GroenLinks to put in place a large stopper scheme that should seduce mink owners to stop this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'd like to object to that. The word "riant" doesn't come out of nowhere. No amount is mentioned either. The Minister is asked to come forward with a proposal. So I find this really difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's a fair point. The motion calls for a withdrawal regime which must be so attractive that all mink holders have stopped at the end of this year. I'm gonna fill that out myself. I'm gonna make sure it's spicy. I'm looking at the room. Looks like that motion is gonna make it, so the Chamber is gonna vote for it. If that's the case, I think we should shut it down. The motion asks to make it as attractive as possible and to seduce mink owners to stop. Then you're going to spend a lot of money, so we also have to legally guarantee that the breeding ban will enter into force on 1 January 2021. The Animal Party will be tabling an amendment to that effect, so that, if the Chamber chooses, we can shut it down completely. We think that's what we owe to the animals. Mr. Chairman. The thing about the mink. Now all those other animals in livestock farming. As soon as the corona crisis broke out, we told Minister Schouten that there would be problems there, at two levels. The cabinet has announced measures on the advice of the RIVM, namely to stay at home if you are even a little sick. We are used to working with a brat, but the directive was not to do so now, because it is dangerous for the fight. Then you know that slaughter personnel and supervisors are falling out. So on the basis of that fact alone, we could see that problems have arisen or are about to arise when livestock is reared while your slaughter capacity is reduced, because the numbers of animals in the stables simply remain at the same level. This, while the Minister had finally admitted to the Chamber, just before the start of the corona crisis, that the pressure on the slaughter process is so great that the rules on food safety and animal welfare cannot be sufficiently guaranteed. So it was already very urgent. And then that corona crisis came along. And then we saw that the slaughterhouses are fireplaces for corona. We find it really incredible that the Minister has not intervened. Yes, she has asked the sector to introduce voluntary breeding restrictions, but she does not know exactly what happened to them. How many animals are in those stables now? She doesn't know. How much meat has been stored in the freezers? There has also been a huge drop in sales due to the restriction of exports and the breakdown of catering and freezer capacity is of course not infinite. So if you don't intervene in the supply, you're gonna have to destroy meat. I thought this minister was the minister against the food waste. The Minister's reaction was: I cannot impose any breeding restrictions; I have no legal basis for that. For this reason, too, the Animal Party will today be tabling an amendment to ensure that it has that land in any case, so that, in order to avoid dramas, it can decide, for the sake of animal welfare, to proceed with breeding restrictions. I would also point out to the Minister that after the incredibly warm, hot summer of last year, she had already told the Chamber that she would come up with measures. Even then, we saw that the slaughter process had to keep going and that you would get in trouble if you stopped the process, because animals would stay in overcrowded stalls. So, on the basis of the evaluation of that summer alone, in which the Minister said she would take action, she should have decided at the beginning of this year on a structurally lower occupation of the stables.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'm having a little dilemma here. I hear Mrs Ouwehand, on behalf of the Animal Party, saying here that she is tabling an amendment on a breeding ban. I don't know the amendment. Since I do not know the content, I find it very difficult to discuss it. How can we take such a far-reaching step in economic ownership through an amendment that we cannot debate? In fact, I think this is just not possible, let me be honest with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	The amendment is well in preparation. So it's gonna be distributed in a minute. It is not the case that the amendment regulates the introduction of breeding restrictions at the moment, but that the Minister has the legal basis for this. In answering our questions, she said: I cannot; I have no legal basis to proceed to breeding restrictions on the basis of animal welfare considerations. We think it would be wise if that legal basis were to exist. Then, of course, you have a political debate on whether the Minister is going to make use of that opportunity. But we do not think that this possibility is at all justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	So I can't prepare for this at all. It is deposited here for a while by the Party for the Animals, without us having any substantive parts underneath it. This debate is very difficult, apart from the fact that former Minister Van Aartsen has in the past declared a breeding ban in the Netherlands, which has also been in force. So there are, on other grounds, quite possibilities for breeding bans. So don't say there's no ground. But I do not know the content of the amendment. I simply find it inappropriate for the Animal Party to drop this right here and think that a majority of the Chamber will support it, when we cannot debate it. I really don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	I think Mr Geurts is unnecessarily failing himself, because he has just read all the questions of the Animal Party in the direction of the Minister and also what the Minister has said about them. She has said that on the basis of all kinds of other considerations, such as public health, she can introduce a breeding restriction, but not because of the simple fact that problems arise in slaughterhouses or that marketing falls away. We have seen that exports have stopped and the catering industry has stopped, creating overcrowded stables with all kinds of animal welfare problems. For example, we know that calves often have to deal with pneumonia in those stables. If they have to stay there longer, the risk will only increase. They become too heavy for the stables as they are decorated. So we find it unbelievable that there are all kinds of grounds for restricting breeding, but not for the reason that you are trying to prevent animal welfare damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u14	I think you made your point. Very briefly, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u15	I'll try to be very brief. Mrs Ouwehand ignores the point that we should be able to have a thorough debate on this. I'm not gonna be able to do that right now, because you left in half an hour. Then there is an amendment here that we are going to vote for or against. I just find that inappropriate: such a far-reaching step in this way. My second point is: should I consider, on the basis of written submissions and written questions from the Party for Animals at night or in preparation for this debate, what the party could bring into the debate? Well, then it's gonna be really hard in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u16	All right, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr President, I would like to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u18	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u19	I find "unbelievable" really... Well, you can choose your own words, but I don't like them. It was the CDA that said, "No, we don't have to debate this. We'll do it in writing." So we did it in writing. And now the CDA says, "Yes, in writing? Surely we do not know what has changed between the Minister and the Party for Animals?" Stop it! We asked for this debate in April. The CDA didn't think it was necessary. Now we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Bishop, a brief question or comment. Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr President, I will do my utmost to limit myself. I would like to start the debate with Mrs Ouwehand. Does Mrs Ouwehand mean only a temporary ban by this amendment, or should it be extended and extended?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u22	No. The amendment provides for a ground to be set up for animal welfare, animal suffering, breeding restrictions if the Minister considers that appropriate, or if the Chamber so requests. So the amendment only regulates that land, because we have now heard from the Minister that it can intervene on the basis of all kinds of considerations, but not on the basis of animal welfare. We think that's a bit crazy in the law there is to prevent animal suffering in the Netherlands, to give animals a little protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u23	But that means that Mrs Ouwehand's intention is to lay down in the law not only for temporary and emergency situations, but for all situations. If a minister comes to the conclusion that animal welfare is served by it, let us say that there is a Minister of the Party for Animals, then a definitive breeding ban will be introduced. Is that a correct interpretation, or am I a little short?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u24	In general, that's true. If animal suffering threatens to develop, the Minister should be able to intervene by introducing restrictions on breeding. That's the ground we're trying to settle in the Animal Law. Let me just say this: that is the only law we have here to protect animals in livestock farming. They cannot be protected, but at least take action if the animal suffering becomes really excessive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u25	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u26	Rounding up. We all know how the Party for Animals feels about that. That would mean that the Party for Animals is now actually trying to lay a definitive basis for the definitive reduction of animal breeding. I think it is an extremely bad way of doing things, and I fully agree with Mr Geurt's report, if you do not have a fundamental debate on it, but you manage it by means of an amendment. Sorry, Chairman, a little harsh. I apologize for that, too, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u27	No, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u28	...this isn't how it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u29	I'm used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u30	The SGP also has the proposal of the Party for Animals... I asked for a debate on this in April. Then it was said: no, we all do that in writing. If you restrict the ability of opposition parties to enter into a debate with everyone on time, then that is the bottom line. But you can simply support the amendment. I highly recommend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u31	I have a question. In the announcement of the amendment, the Animal Party just said that it wants to record something about the mink. And then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u32	No, it is two different amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u33	Oh...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u34	The mink's isn't here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u35	Okay, 'cause I was just thinking, I hear something about mink first and then about calves. We have the opportunity, on the grounds of public health, to intervene in breeding, but not on other grounds. That is what the one amendment is about. What does the other amendment look like? I didn't see that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u36	That amendment is coming, too. This will ensure that the date of entry into force of the ban on the breeding of mink which is now 1 January 2024 becomes 1 January 2021. There is a motion that says that mink owners should all stop this year by means of an arrangement which should tempt them to do so, but then I think you should also close it, because then you do not want there to be a mink keeper who will not be tempted and yet continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u37	But that amendment's still coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u38	That amendment is still coming. Yes, yesterday there was this proposal. I was wondering how we could shut it down, if that's what it is and the Chamber will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u39	Proceed, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. It therefore seems perfectly logical for the Party for Animals to have at least a ground to be able to act on the basis of imminent excessive animal suffering. Animals in livestock farming suffer every day, let us not forget, but there must be a limit to that, so that you can say on other grounds: a little less breeding. I would like to emphasise the heat when a ban on transport is imposed on animal welfare. And it is right that the Minister should decide on a temperature of 35 degrees. That has to be much lower, but well, a limit is set. If it's hotter than 35 degrees, you don't put animals in a transport wagon to the slaughterhouse. But if you don't intervene in the breeding... We know about the meat chicken farmers, they have nowhere to go. So these animals have to go to the slaughter in the heat, otherwise animal welfare problems will arise in the stables. For such situations, the Minister must have a basis for saying that there will be a hot summer and that she will come up with measures. It would be even better for the Minister to decide on a structural reduction in the number of stables so that you can cope with heat or crises without causing excessive animal welfare problems in the stables. But look at the Party for Animals being constructive, I am not even making that proposal here today. I call on the Minister to do so, but that would be a fundamental debate. The only thing we do with the amendment is to create the legal basis for the Minister so that she can intervene for the sake of animal welfare. The Animal Party was truly unpleasantly surprised by the way the Minister dealt with the problems that we could see coming. At some point it also began to penetrate the rest of society. The minister was asked by NOS Radio 1 Journal whether it was true that there were problems in the slaughterhouses, or whether it was true that if those silences occur in the stables, problems arise, and what about animal welfare. Then she said: the problem must not come from the farmers. The question was about animal welfare. In such a reaction are exactly the hope and the despair at the same time. That the Minister did not want to talk about animal welfare indicates that the Minister knows very well that there is a major problem there. Everyone who occasionally tries to show his family what happens in livestock farming knows that: ooh, this is too bad to look at, but yes, just keep eating meat. The desperation is that people, as well as the minister, are so easily moving away from the painful thing that is actually going on. Those animals are in overcrowded stables. They were asked to do so. The answer cannot then be that it should not be put on the farmers' plate. Where were the farmers with timely intervention to ensure that these problems did not arise? The slaughterhouses have not complied with the rules and bear an important part of the responsibility, also simply because of the rules I mentioned at the beginning, namely the directive that you should stay at home if you are ill. You know that in a slaughter process that doesn't allow a millimetre of air anymore, problems start to arise. Farmers, too, should have intervened with their sector organisation themselves in time instead of calling it a disgrace that the Party warned the Animals about the conditions that would arise. So dare to look at what it means to the animals and dare to take measures. I have a question about what I read in the media about the organisation of pig farmers, who talked about emergency services. I'm not sure what's going on. What can the Minister say about that? Is it true that pig farmers have been given the impression that they do have emergency facilities to keep animals out of their stables if it becomes untenable in the stable? Does every pig farmer have that? What are the rules for that? Can the Minister with the sector use this by saying to the sector that if you have emergency facilities, then you must use them now to make sure that the misery in the stables does not get too much? It was news to me. So I'm very curious about the possibilities. I'm also going to make a trip to the hot summer that's coming right now. The Minister told the Chamber after the previous heat waves to come up with measures. We have not yet seen a bill to actually ban transport at more than 35 degrees. So we have not yet seen any plans to deal with overcrowding in the stables, or to reduce slaughter rates in the slaughterhouses to ensure that you have some fluctuation and can cope with problems. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the two support packages. Where the whole of the Netherlands has been hit hard, for example, the cultural sector, for example, has suddenly been informed that there will be 650 million in aid for the ornamental and potato production sectors. The reactions in the agricultural media were: "royal support in the corona crisis of its own ministry" and "a reward for effective lobbying work." That is rather acidic for the people in the cultural sector, who are suffering from very large deficits and who received half of them, after a great deal of pressure. But then the conditions that need to be laid down. This Minister also said that we really need to make a switch with the agricultural poison. Well, ornamental cultivation and potatoes account for 65% of the use of resources in the Netherlands. This support cannot be seen in isolation from the Minister's actual action in this area. Not just ambition, not just 'we want to go to half by 2030', but actually do something. I also mention the lilies and the people who live near those fields, of which the Chamber has said: do at least a distance standard, so that there is a distance between those fields that are treated with very heavy poison, and the places where people live and where children play outside. It is also not yet regulated. So we call on the Minister to work on her ambitions in any case and in the light of the generous support that has been given to the ornamental and potato sectors. Finally, there is also an aid package for fisheries. Now the beginning of this week was World Oceans Day. When they say a day for you, it's usually bad news. That usually means we have to pay attention to it because it's not going well. The oceans are populated with plastic. A very large proportion of them come from fishing and the oceans are overfished. Is the Minister also taking up this moment to tackle overfishing, to tackle the pollution of the oceans with plastic fishing nets? We do not think it is appropriate to support the sector and do nothing for the fragile nature that we have to protect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u43	I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. If the corona crisis has shown one thing, it's how fragile our relationship with nature is. We already knew that, but that comes out again. And how fragile our agriculture is. Monocultures, focused on large exports. Such a crisis shows that our farmers are vulnerable, at least that our system is set up in such a way that it cannot take a hit. Then you actually automatically come into the category of large state aid. But the corona crisis has also taught us that it is time to start working with nature again rather than against it. That nature-inclusive society is necessary as a kind of insurance premium to help us through future crises, which are undoubtedly coming. Before I go into the aid scheme, I would like to make a few comments that are a little further away from home. It's about wildlife trafficking. International trade in plants and animals is a major risk to public health. In recent decades, virus outbreaks have been caused by wildlife trade and consumption: SARS, MERS, Ebola and Corona are the best known examples. China has imposed a ban on the feeding and breeding of wild animals following the outbreak of the corona virus, but there are once again signs that China is going to loosen this ban. It is therefore very important that all countries assume their responsibilities. Is the Minister prepared to address the importance of stopping illegal trade in plants and animals at the start of 2021 at the Biodiversity Summit in China? Illegal wildlife trafficking is often seen as a far-from-my-bed show, which only happens in China in markets where bats and pangolins are sold. But the Netherlands, with the Rotterdam harbour and Schiphol, the mainports, has traditionally been a turntable in that illegal trade. It is time for the Netherlands to take its responsibility and take a leading position in order to stop the illegal trade. What steps will the Minister take to stop illegal trade in plants and animals? Does the Minister see opportunities in imposing higher penalties? Is it prepared to strengthen controls on mainports such as the port of Rotterdam? What role does it see for chain cooperation, for example with large distribution centres where international trade comes together? Is the Minister prepared to step up his efforts to take away criminal profits from the illegal trade in animals and plants? 'Cause there's a lot of money in it. Not only the Minister of LNV is responsible for these problems. It is government wide: VWS, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and JenV are involved. So make sure it gets on the agenda, with good cooperation. Can the Minister promise that she will talk to her colleagues to put the importance of this issue on the map? Mr. Chairman. In addition to illegal trade, habitat loss is an important cause of the spread of diseases. Deforestation, climate change and loss of biodiversity pose a major risk. By deforestation, the animals in the forests, who live in a natural environment, are driven to the city so that contact with people increases. This just means they get in touch more often. Think of ebola, which originated from forest edges in Africa where animals infected with the Ebola virus came into contact with the population. It is therefore essential that there is a global agreement for nature, as is the case with climate. D66, with the support of this Chamber, called on the Minister to create a "Paris for Nature." What's going on with that? What steps have been taken? Only if the world cooperates can habitat loss be combated, biodiversity can be preserved and wildlife is less exposed to humans. Does the Minister agree with D66 that habitat loss should be combated as soon as possible? What action does it take in a European context? Mr. Chairman. In intensive livestock farming, too, we have seen that we are vulnerable. It is known that people living near intensive livestock farming have health problems, especially in the lung function. This is particularly true in the case of goat farms. How's the investigation that the Minister has promised? Are there any initial results? Is that about all the animals that live in intensive livestock farming? The number of goats in the Netherlands has tripled over the period 2010-2019. There is a moratorium in certain provinces. Will the Minister, with the provinces, make sure that the moratorium is maintained until the research results are known? In view of the political situation in some provinces, it could also loosen up a bit. Mr. Chairman. Circle farming is the ideal way to make food production more robust and less vulnerable, with farmers who can take a hit. But what about circular agriculture? You have a wonderful vision, you have laid down an implementation note, but where are these concrete steps, day to day, in terms of better handling the soil, mature manure instead of rotten manure, less input of fertilizers and pesticides and, not least, simply not giving it to animals of food that people can eat? Because that's the most wasteful element in our food system. When can we expect a response to the motion adopted by the Chamber on the role of supermarkets and the processing industry in the transition to circular agriculture? I would like an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a 600 million package to support crop and horticulture in these times of corona. D66 understands that it was difficult in the context of the haste involved in that package, and we have called for it to be subject to conditions in the area of sustainability. Since then, however, the Minister has been able to reflect on how it places conditions on possible follow-up packages. We would like to know what these conditions are, for example in the field of pesticides. I'd like to hear that from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. We have seen that the corona crisis has painfully exposed our system, our food system that is already extremely vulnerable and our relationship with nature that is already extremely vulnerable. We can only invest with a great deal of public support in order to maintain the old system. That's actually a missed opportunity. How wonderful it would have been if we could make such funds available to make agriculture and nature more robust, so that we, farmers and nature can take a hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u45	Glad to hear that D66 also says: hey, we have to look closely at what causes such pandemics. Three major factors are wildlife trade, the loss of nature and our own livestock farming. I was wondering: that loss of nature, of course Minister Kaag is primarily responsible for that. The import of palm oil, for example, is at the expense of precious rainforests. Is D66 also ready to engage with her in the debate to mitigate those risk factors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u46	In fact, the commitment of Minister Kaag and the entire fraction of D66 is, of course, to ensure that you protect the rainforests much better and that if you have international trade, which takes place only in sustainable products. That is absolutely D66's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u47	Then, for the rest of the debate, I will say that sustainable palm oil will also destroy the rainforest and that you will not be there with it. I look forward very much to the further steps we can take together to call on the cabinet to take more action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u48	Well, that sounds very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u49	Each step counts, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. Mr Weverling has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On Monday morning, March 16th I stood in all early hours at floral auction FloraHolland in Naaldwijk, and what I found there was disarray. An atmosphere of disarray. The corona crisis was a true sledgehammer for ornamental farming. The trade in flowers and plants had completely stopped. Almost half of the products were destroyed because there were no buyers for them. Just freaking out. That hurt me. Pain because the soul and salvation of hundreds of growers and their associates had been for nothing. Pain because growers saw how their businesses, with years of hard work built up, threatened to fall in a few weeks. In those days, unsold flowers were distributed free of charge to care staff. Ludic actions started to encourage people not to hoard toilet paper, but flowers. With creativity and hard work, what was saved was saved. A big compliment for that. What was sold did have a low selling price, with significant consequences: tens of percent of turnover losses, liquidity problems and therefore credit restrictions. The days of bankruptcy were counted. In this uncertain time, this cabinet has been helping very quickly by allocating EUR 650 million to help affected growers, traders and farmers through the crisis. There is still room for improvement, but that rapid action also deserves a great compliment. Not only the growers were affected, but also the trading companies and the auction itself. As exports came to a halt worldwide, the entire production cycle and logistics process were disrupted. That disturbance also caused problems down the chain. This threatened to collapse the whole chain as a basic infrastructure. If that had happened, the Netherlands would have lost a lot. Our growers and farmers provide locally produced food, export value and agricultural innovations that pass the world. This is how we feed the growing world population. Last year, EUR 6.2 billion of ornamental products were exported abroad and over 94 billion in agricultural products in total. Dutch agricultural innovations also help developing countries to build their agricultural sector. And losing that would have been a blood drain for the Netherlands and for the world. Fortunately, the cabinet quickly intervened. Initially often with generic measures, and many of these measures did not work well for the horticulture sector, a real high-tech production sector with seasonal peaks and many continuous operational costs. Unlike many other companies, the capital of farmers or growers is in products that simply grow, corona or no corona, buyers or no buyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u52	I heard Mr Weverling say something about Dutch farmers in developing countries and I had to think about rose growers in Africa. Because I heard at the beginning of this crisis that these people, these Africans who work at Dutch rose growers in Africa, are all not in service. They've all been sent home and they haven't had any income since day one. How does Mr Weverling feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u53	An interesting question from Mrs Bromet. Look, I think it is very good that Dutch growers in other countries help to grow beautiful products there. So I also think it is a good thing that there is a lot of work done there and to provide employment. If this is a result of the corona crisis, then of course that is a painful situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u54	I am pleased that Mr Weverling admits this. With African labour, roses are now being grown on land where food can also be grown. Then the argument can still stand that those people there get an income from the rose farm. But if they're on the street right away when the rose market collapses, that's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u55	I endorse what Mrs Bromet says. Of course, it is hard to see people on the streets, especially in the African countries. I believe in origin that it is nice that Dutch growers help elsewhere in the world to grow products there. In this case roses are grown elsewhere in the world. That happens a lot in Africa. The hectares of rose cultivation in the Netherlands have indeed fallen a lot in recent decades. That's because it's just an expensive crop and there's, of course, more and more regulation, which makes the production process in the Netherlands just too expensive, which means that many lots can deviate and be valuable in other countries. When we talk about rose growing on the African continent: yes, I would like us to have more other crops there and make them self-sufficient. There is a beautiful project, Seed NL, to allow the seed industry of the Netherlands to land more in Africa and make people self-sufficient there. If we can come up with beautiful projects between wells, seed processing, low-tech greenhouses and food products, that would certainly be my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u56	This brings me to another subject, namely the chicken market in Africa. In some countries it has completely disappeared, because the Netherlands brings eggs that are hatched there, after which the chickens go back to the Netherlands. The chicken farmers sitting there with their hands in their hair. They just don't have any revenue anymore. That is the opposite of what Mr Weverling now argues that countries should be self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u57	I have to tell you, I haven't been much into that. So I can't tell you anything about the chicken farmers in Africa. My focus is more on the plant sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u58	Finally, I just wanted to make a point of our enormous export position, which affects poor countries. We will see what will happen in the coming months as a result of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u61	I didn't know you knew nothing about chickens! That's new, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you. Let me get on with it. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that there is now a sector-specific regulation for ornamental farming and for food horticulture. Because of the need to intervene so quickly, there was no time to work out the scheme. That is understandable, but the VVD still has a number of questions about the precise framework conditions. How, for example, does the 30% entrepreneurial risk work in practice? Are there any growers for whom this has turned out to be too high in the end? What is the basis for using a ceiling on the scheme, which means more turnover also means more entrepreneurial risk? What has been the consideration of not allowing the plant breeders, an important part of the horticultural chain, to be eligible? And how does the minister come to help companies that have recently been taken over or set up and which are now out of business because they have had little turnover in the last three years? Mr. Chairman. Not only the ornamental farming sector came to a standstill, but also the suppliers of restaurants lost their customers at once because of the hospitality closure. Products, such as cucumbers, cresses or mushrooms, no longer found their way to the catering industry. Fortunately, the current regime also provides a solution for these growers, if they can show that 75% of their products go to the catering industry. What are the experiences with that so far? Do growers have a great deal of difficulty in proving that they meet this 75% requirement and how strictly is that lower limit applied? Unfortunately, the loss of food service due to the corona crisis takes longer than expected. Restaurants and catering are slowly getting going. How does the Minister view this with regard to the ending arrangement? The food service is often made more than on other markets, because the gross margin is higher. Why did this sector also opt for aid on the basis of gross margin rather than on the basis of gross turnover, as previously proposed? And is it also looking at the situation of growers of products that are only suitable for the food service and not for retail? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the fishing. Fishing also had difficulty because of the hospitality closure. The market for fish species, which are mainly eaten in restaurants, completely disappeared. Recently the news also came across that scientific evidence has been shown that the unjust ban on pulses is sustainable, something that we in the Netherlands, of course, knew a long time ago. There are also schemes for fisheries, such as making SME loans available. But what long-term perspective can the Minister offer the fishermen? What is her first step in getting the European pulse ban off the table? The cabinet has also made a sum available to the potato growers of fries. It is a good thing that the Minister pays attention to this sector, because with the loss of demand for fries there is a serious problem here. The arrangement is now in force. Can the Minister give us the latest state of play? The VVD regrets that the scheme has been designed to accommodate a limited number of growers and that no account has been taken of and no account has been taken of the impact of the current situation on the next harvest season. My group has asked a number of questions about the interpretation of that regulation. It's too bad the trial went as it did. Can the Minister direct the progress of the implementation of the scheme before the summer? In view of the change in interpretation, my group considers it important that the amount remains available for the disposal of stocks. The demand from the catering industry is slowly starting to rise, but the potato fry growers are not going to make up for the loss of turnover. In order to limit the impact for next year, it is important that steps are taken now. Mr. Chairman. Whether it is fish, flowers, cattle or vegetables, getting exports back on track is important for all sectors. That's happening slowly now. It would be fantastic if we returned quickly to the export level before the corona crisis. This way you can also enjoy our products outside the Netherlands. Europe is our most important market. How do the green lanes work within Europe? What export barriers do we experience when exporting outside Europe and how can we remove them? For example, is there sufficient cargo space available in aviation to be able to export flowers? The Dutch growers and growers are now beyond the worst shock. The trade's gonna pick up a bit. Now it is important to make up for the damage with hard work, but we must also look to the future. An innovative, sustainable and resilient horticultural sector is the goal, because the corona crisis and previous crises, such as the EHEC crisis, have taught us that the horticultural chain is vulnerable to sudden disruptions. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the horticultural sector to explore these vulnerabilities and see how the whole chain can become more robust? Then you can prevent a domino effect, of which other parties from the chain and other countries can also suffer, precisely because the Netherlands is the turntable worldwide. Does the Minister think that the horticultural sector still has sufficient financial leverage to continue investing in sustainability? Maybe we just made it, but there are also sustainability ambitions. Can we still invest in this? Then how can the sector be helped by the Minister? Mr President, I will conclude. We are not here yet, but on behalf of the VVD I would like to congratulate the Minister for her vigorous approach so far. Entrepreneurs and employees in the horticultural sector themselves receive an even greater compliment. They stayed on their feet at a difficult time and clearly demonstrated their added value. It is now important to focus our eyes on the future, so that the whole world can continue to benefit from our beautiful flowers, plants and vegetables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. Mrs Bromet has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has already been recalled by my colleagues: the Netherlands is the second exporter of the world when it comes to agricultural goods and knowledge. As we know, GroenLinks is not necessarily proud of the fact that we are the world's second exporter in terms of goods, but we do believe that knowledge can be of interest to other countries, as an example to the world. We therefore also play an important role in the transition to a more sustainable food system, but it also makes us vulnerable, especially in an international health crisis such as today. If exports suddenly fall away, a large source of income from growers and farmers will disappear. That is at the heart of the problem we are discussing today. GroenLinks believes that we need to ensure a resilient agricultural sector. It's also nice to see what happens when things suddenly change. I asked a GroenLinksboer who also exists how he is doing and he said: it's actually going really well, because we have a store at home and it's incredible how many people are coming to buy products from us right now; we can hardly handle it, so much turnover we make. So he was also a profiteer of this crisis. That is also what GroenLinks considers important: short chains, people who can buy their goods, their food directly on the farm. We have seen in the crisis that the farmers who were already working on this are now the frontrunners. My question to the Minister is: how can we encourage even more consumers and producers to get closer together? Then the ornamentals. The export of cut flowers completely dropped at the beginning of the crisis. Mr Weverling has already mentioned it. There was nothing more to come up with than destroying the harvests. That is, of course, terrible to see, even if you know how many water and pesticides have been used to make those flowers, and then they don't even end up in a vase. Fortunately, many people brought a flower to the care workers, but that did not restore the trade. How's the ornamentals going now? Is the ornamentals again attracted? Is that what the trouble is about? How fast did that recovery go? Last year the Minister came up with a Future vision of plant protection 2030. We think this is a good start, but can the Minister comment on how aid measures relate to this vision of the future and to the implementation programme that is currently being developed? Has she thought about imposing conditions on the aid? D66 also referred to "to help other social objectives'? For it could also be an opportunity if you do set conditions; they are not set now. But if you want less pesticides and less manure, there are all kinds of things that we here as a Chamber are talking about, and which are also expressed in the future vision of the Minister for Agriculture, is it not a missed opportunity to give that support unavoidably instead of setting conditions that allow you to achieve those social goals with the social money that we spend in the sector? I'd like a response. That's how it was wrong in the potato sector. There lives near me in the Beemster, a farmer who had a contract with a supermarket, and that supermarket didn't put her potatoes in the store. But there were potatoes from Israel in all supermarkets. That is very painful, also for consumers. A lot of people don't understand how that's possible. How is it that we can grow potatoes here in the Beemster, extra tasty, I also ate them and the farmer does not get rid of them, but at the same time we see that the potatoes from Israel, which are probably cheaper, are in the shop? That's a real degeneration. I would like to know from the Minister how she is going to change this. Then there is the link with nitrogen, livestock farming and the EU recovery plan. We heard from Remkes on Monday that nitrogen emissions should be reduced by 50% by 2030. That was no surprise to GroenLinks, because we now have an initiative law at the Council of State, which also mentions the same 50% in 2030. At the same time, we need to take huge steps to stay below the 1.5°C temperature increase in 2030. In reply to the factual questions, the Minister writes that "where possible, tackling climate change and biodiversity loss is linked to tackling the corona crisis." Can it give examples in which it has taken this into account? How did it combine these different issues? In the meantime, the European Commission's recovery plan has also come out. There too, a combination with the Green Deal is advocated. That is crucial in our view. How does the Minister view these support measures in the context of the Recovery Plan and the Green Deal? You can only spend taxpayers' money once. GroenLinks therefore wants to argue that the expenditure of the money should be looked at in its entirety, not only in terms of saving the farmer's income, but also in terms of all the other things that we have been trying to work on here for years and years. I am asking this precisely because at European level, at least, it seems as if this comprehensive vision is still lacking. In fact, the current CAP uses the money as part of the EU recovery plan. This will add 4 billion more to the first pillar. That's about direct payments. These are payments that go to people on the basis of the land they own and not on the basis of the social goals they pursue. It goes to big land owners and to industrial livestock farming. How does the Minister feel about this? Secondly, extra money from Europe goes to rural development. That's a game from which beautiful things like landscape elements are paid for. We discussed this on Tuesday when we discussed the National Trees Plan of the SP and GroenLinks. Normally, the National Strategic Plans should also include nature and climate measures. The 15 billion added to the recovery plan is only excluded. We think that's a missed opportunity. What does the Minister think of this and is she going to argue in Europe to impose conditions for support? Mr. Chairman. Finally, agricultural operators have also benefited from generic support measures, such as the NOW, deferred payment of taxes, and temporary income support for self-employed persons. This is also not subject to any sustainability condition. However, the total amount involved is almost 90 million extra to the agricultural sector through the generic measures. And that's gonna be a lot more. There are no conditions. Can the Minister give us a final update? What are the amounts involved? And can the Minister explain how she sees this in relation to the climate and biodiversity crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr. Chairman. What the corona time shows and shows is that food is vital. A few months ago, we were hoarding massively in the Netherlands. So uncertain were we whether we would have enough food the next day. It has even been thought for a moment to remove from the dust the Hamar Law, which could lay down rules to prevent the hoarding of goods in exceptional circumstances. Not only in the cities, but also in the villages there was hoarded. In the CDA election programme, we have written that we CDAs do not believe in the traditional contradiction between town and country. We expressed the wish to organise a local product market in each city for products from its own region. I never imagined that the corona crisis would make local products so popular. The podcast of my group chairman Pieter Heerma on the state of the country is also listening. It makes it clear that farmers were looking for new ways to sell their products, for example the local market here in The Hague. GroenLinks, Mrs Bromet, also referred to shopping at the local farmer because of the corona crisis. In addition, we were in quarantine apparently lame, because I heard and saw that the flour could not be dragged. In my neighborhood, the mills even closed because of the hustle and bustle. In any case, these examples underline the crucial importance of the agricultural and horticultural sector for our food supply. The corona crisis thus also demonstrates the importance of strategic thinking about food supply, for example with regard to the geostrategic importance of food security and food self-sufficiency within the European Union. I would like to hear from the Minister what steps it is taking to think strategically on this issue at both national and European level and to implement policies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u67	I think it's a good idea to think strategically about that. I think it's useful to distinguish between food we need and perhaps a little excess. Because I also saw reports that, for example, the marketing of chicken legs has fallen enormously, because people bought a pre-baked bucket full of chicken legs to snack in the evening for television. But they weren't gonna do that anymore, because then you'd have to make it all yourself and the KFC was closed. So part of the food we consume is actually not fair, because other people have less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u68	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u69	My question is as follows. I agree with the CDA's call to look strategically at food security, but is the CDA also prepared to acknowledge that we might just eat too much precious protein here, that we should do it differently and that we should eat less animal products?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u70	I thought, "Where does Mrs. Ouwehand want to go?" But the core was, of course, in the last part of what she says: less animal products. We have a difference of opinion between the CDA and the Animal Party. There's another side too. I cannot reproduce Mrs Ouwehand's words, but a free translation of the summary of what was said is that it is wrong to produce food here. I think that the Germans, the Belgians and the United Kingdom do not think it wrong at all that we are doing business here, because most of the exports go to those countries. Those are our neighbours, aren't they? It is therefore in the interests of our society, but also in the interests of society within Europe, to continue to shape the self-sufficiency I have just mentioned within Europe and food security within Europe well and clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u71	I explicitly asked for a distinction to be made. I refer to the former human rights rapporteur of the United Nations for the right to food, who for years now has been telling Western countries that there is a difference between food and stuffing and that we are all 'consuming up' a lot of stuffing here in the rich West. So we don't really need it; it's not very healthy for you and it's actually luxurious. If you look closely at the distribution of precious proteins, we should do a little less. That is strategically looking at food security in the long term, because if we continue to consume as much animal protein as we do, you will not get a fair distribution of food in the world, when I heard the CDA call for it. So my suggestion would be: think about it and just admit that if we want to do it honestly and if we want food security in the world, we also need to adjust our own consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u72	I think that's what's happening. Certainly in the Netherlands, but also in other Western European countries, this is being considered and dealt with. But we can't hide the fact that in emerging countries, looking at China, an emerging country in terms of food consumption, and look at India, the need for animal protein is just growing substantially. I am not saying that all this has to be produced here in the Netherlands, but I agree with what GroenLinks just said: we can export that knowledge of agriculture and horticulture abroad, but in the future you can only continue to export knowledge if you continue to have production here in the Netherlands to develop that knowledge. I think that this food pattern is already being looked at very closely in Western Europe. And yes, if I have to think about that from you, I will do it with all my love. I'm doing it all the time, just because you brought it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u73	I hear the CDA proudly talking about Dutch food production and that we can also produce proteins for Germany, France and the United Kingdom. But I don't hear anything about the disadvantages involved. We're in the middle of a nitrogen crisis. Does Mr Geurts see that we still have a little problem with all the proteins we are creating here on Dutch territory for half of Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u74	We can have a whole environmental debate. I was just thinking: the Minister will think that this is a mini-debate on the budget. That is of course the same thing as the LNV budget that we are discussing after Princess Day. That's what I meant; thank you for the supplement, so I can specify something. I am proud of our farmers and gardeners and of what we are producing here. We're doing that efficiently. Efficient is apparently becoming an ugly word in our society, but we do it in the Netherlands compared to the rest of the world with as little pressure on the environment as possible. Can you do better? If Mrs Bromet asks me whether it can be done better, I say: yes, it can be done better and steps are taken every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u75	Good thing Mr Geurts says he can do better. GroenLinks feels the same way. We are also proud of what has already been achieved, but it can sometimes be a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u76	I saw a state the other day. Then I wonder what's less. Nowadays you have to be a little careful what you call it, but I think the number of cows is now as high as 70 years ago, so: more, less, ready. I see Mr De Groot is scribbling explosively out of his chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u77	You can't provoke him. He's very quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u78	Too bad, Mr. Chairman, you don't want me to provoke him. I'll try to stick to that. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis also brings out less beautiful things. It is unbelievable and sad that certain customers of agricultural and horticultural products think they should act unfairly and abuse the corona crisis. I got stories that current delivery agreements were changed unilaterally. One-sided price agreements were also made, orders cancelled and payment deadlines exceeded. In short, unfair trade agreements. I would like to hear from the Minister what the findings of the Authority Consumer & Market have been on this point. What is the situation with regard to the introduction of the food separator included in the government agreement? Mr. Chairman. Compliments to the Minister for the speed with which she has designed a support programme for ornamental and fries potatoes. From the field I do hear some sounds I say very emphatically: I hear some sounds.... that the rules of the game with regard to fries potatoes have changed during the implementation of the scheme. This could lead to the possibility that only part of the 50 million promised could be paid out. I say to my colleagues that farmers are far from being reimbursed for their costs; to clarify that. Could the Minister perhaps clarify this a little, if she has also heard this point? I think it would be a good idea to explain this before all sorts of rumors may be the truth. Mr. Chairman. I was also surprised that farmers would not be able to understand how they could feed their own potatoes to their cows if they had a combined farming farm. Due to the corona conditions and the adapted procedure of the Chamber, I contacted the Ministry directly about these kinds of signals from society. So far, I have not found that there is a solution to this. I would like to ask a response from the Minister today, because I think it is important that this is clarified. Mr. Chairman. There are also problems in calf farming, especially among the free calf farmers who have some difficulty with the disposal of their calves. The duck-farming that has taken action on its own is what I am saying to Mrs Ouwehand that this has not caused animal welfare problems. The situation in poultry and pig farming is also under pressure. That has just to do with the global corona crisis. Fishing too has a hard to endure, not least because of the lack of clarity surrounding the Brexit. Does the Minister see any solutions for these sectors, or is the problem at present much calmer? Mr. Chairman. In an interview in De Telegraaf, Minister Hoekstra indicated that the bill of corona should not go to the common man. To my surprise, I saw in a letter of office that next year the Minister intended to raise NVWA rates by some EUR 6 million for agriculture and horticulture, while the NVWA had reduced the supply of services related to exports in corona time. Yes, I realize that I tell the employees of NVWA the reasons why, but the service has already been reduced. Wouldn't the Minister with the CDA rather focus on recovery of the economy rather than increasing the burden? Mr. Chairman. In the middle of the corona crisis, part of the Apeldoorn city council found that intensive livestock farming should disappear. Aside from the fact that the CDA thinks this is going down way too short, I find it unbecoming that you're taunting people that are working their business day and night to get through the corona, price and drought crisis. When I heard that message, I wondered whether it would be wise for municipalities to anticipate and go beyond Minister Schouten's policy. Does the Minister think it wise that Apeldoorn or any other municipality should pursue its own rigorous policy? What does the Minister think of each municipality in the Netherlands going to have its own agricultural policy? What kind of government are you? On behalf of the CDA, in recent years, I have held a number of debates in favour of tax reservations for, for example, periods of drought, post-animal diseases and other calamities. The corona crisis also shows that this would not be superfluous. The Minister hasn't done much with our suggestions yet. At least, it's not visible. I can't make it out of pieces or words. The question is how she looks at that right now. And before the Minister says it, I will say it myself: as a CDA, together with the SGP and the support of other political parties, we have managed to improve broad weather insurance. I am also very grateful to the Minister for her commitment in the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. In Africa, in particular, but also in Asia and Latin America, there is a risk of a food crisis following the health crisis. The United Nations World Food Programme even warns that the corona crisis could double the number of people in acute famine from 135 million to 260 million by the end of this year. According to the Minister, the FAO, the World Food Organisation and the World Bank make a country-by-country analysis of this situation and want to explore with the Dutch industry how to contribute to making food systems in the affected countries more robust and sustainable. I just heard a debate between GroenLinks and the VVD about the poultry sector. I happen to live in the municipality of Barneveld: poultry-city of the Netherlands. So I got some of that as an ordinary citizen. I see very nice initiatives from the community of Barneveld towards Central Africa, North Africa, but also southern Africa about how farmers in that place can keep poultry with knowledge from the Netherlands. Sometimes it starts with knowledge of what we did in the years just after the Second World War, because the power supply is less there. You see really beautiful projects there. I would like to challenge you to take note of that, because I think that is a very good example. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the subject I have just mentioned, I would like to ask the Minister whether she can indicate at what time it intends to implement this plan and what opportunities it sees for making food systems more robust and sustainable. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I very much agree with those colleagues who say that the corona crisis demonstrates our vulnerability: the vulnerability of us as a society and the vulnerability of us as a human being. But I would like to add: it also shows how much the idea of the feasibility of our future and the creasibility of society is an enormous form of self-expression. As far as I am concerned, it determines us precisely in our dependence, between one another, but above all also in the blessing and preservation of our good God. Mr. Chairman. It concerns the vulnerability of all sectors, not just agriculture. It concerns all sectors. We are talking about the agricultural sector today. And indeed, if you can join us at kitchen tables, as far as that is possible, I will do it digitally, you will notice that there is concern about that, whether it is about tomato growers, potato growers or calf farms. Suddenly they see thick red numbers. That market distortion is not over either from today to tomorrow. This is still independent of the increasing demands of society on food production. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the rapid reaction and support for growers and potato growers. That's very much appreciated. If I listen carefully, in the meantime there seems to be some kind of under-exhaustment of the budget of 650 million. I'd like to hear about the latest state of affairs. It is good that the Minister quickly came up with her arrangement for the potato sector. It is still unclear how the low yield of alternative destinations for the potatoes is handled. I'd say just ignore it. The amount of aid is not excessive. It remains a major concern as to how the 2020-2021 season will run. The potatoes are now in the ground. There is a good chance that the demand for fries potatoes will not reach the old level in the coming year. This means that the market remains under considerable pressure. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to remain in dialogue with the industry organisations to see how a further blow can be avoided in the longer term. Because even when the crisis situation around the corona pandemic is over, the consequences are not yet over. It is also good that the Minister quickly came up with her arrangement for ornamental farming, but there is more going on in horticulture. Several vegetable growers who supply a significant part of the harvest to the catering and catering industry are nevertheless excluded from the scheme because of the strict conditions. Furthermore, tomatoes and cucumbers that normally go towards the catering industry, now go to the supermarket shelves. This means a huge price pressure for all producers, those who deliver, but also those who are not allowed to supply. And we're only at the beginning of the harvest season. These vegetable growers cannot make use of the NOW scheme, the emergency measure bridging work retention, because the product has to be harvested. The fees in the European regulations are too low and at least do not offer any relief. Does the Minister have the problem for these vegetable growers in mind? What possibilities does she see for support? In general, can no longer account be taken of turnover losses in relation to the past? So can the moment of measurement not be specified a little more? Ornamentalists and other gardeners also expect significant turnover losses in the third quarter, but the current scheme expires today. That is what the supplementary allowance is for. Will the Minister be talking to the sector to see what is needed in the coming months? This is in line with Mr Weverling's questions. Given the likely under-exhaustment of the budget, is it possible to extend it? The NOW scheme has been extended, but, as I said, these entrepreneurs cannot use it. Then there's the calf farm. Two groups have been hit hard by the corona crisis, perhaps even more hard, but are not covered by the current aid scheme, namely duck farmers and calf farmers. Certainly free calf farmers, who are not integrated, face huge turnover losses. I saw hundreds of thousands of euros coming by. The problems in calf farming, of course, also affect dairy farming, where the young calves come from. The veal sector is still outside the European scheme. If this does not change in the short term, is the Minister prepared to use the likely under-exhaustment of the crisis budget to support companies in this sector in one way or another? Finally, the issue of tax reservation, which Mr Geurts has just referred to. The yields and conversions in agriculture fluctuate strongly. This is the sector's own responsibility, in relation to the market. In addition to corona, several farmers also have to deal with the effects of the drought, for the third year in a row. In my view, this underlines the need to ensure that agricultural holdings in fat years, which they fortunately also occasionally have, can make tax reservations for lean years easier. I would like to ask the Minister to take action on this issue. I realize it's a different department, but we need to put that breeding behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mr Futselaar has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When dealing with the budget of LNV last autumn, the budget on which we are now dealing with two corrections, I began with the observation or prediction that it would be a hard year. I admit I was only thinking about the nitrogen crisis at the time. Although I dare to say that my gloomy predictions on this matter have been reasonable, when it comes to 'hard', I also refer to the harsh words that Mr Remkes said last Monday. For example, last autumn I did not foresee that we would now be dealing with budgetary changes that almost double the LNV annual budget, if you leave out the equipment costs, because of the support measures for corona. At that time, I had not foreseen that debates on the dysfunction of slaughterhouses and NVWA would take place almost weekly, until yesterday. And I didn't expect to hear the CDA passionately plead for premature closure of mink farming. Today we are discussing in particular the support measures for the agricultural sector and the extension of the reform of pig farming. I will not make it very exciting: I will advise the SP Group to agree to these budgetary changes. I have to say that we don't even have that much choice, because part of the money has just been spent because the aid packages have been open since May. You can always discuss the nature and extent of the aid packages............................................................................................................................................................. The cultivation of horticulture and ornamental plants by the loss of exports and the potato sector by the disappearance of the catering industry, which was a direct customer of products from that sector. With regard to the reform of pigs, the Court is aware of my party's position on the size of livestock. So every pig less has been taken with one, and I would like to stress that, in our view, we could do much better with a targeted buy-in policy, not least our nitrogen problem. Mr Remkes agrees, but we will probably continue to discuss this next week. So, chairman, support for the support. But I am warning you, because like all the economic aid packages, this is finished. We are far from there, not with the corona crisis, but also with the economic crisis that results from it. All negative price developments on the world market for food cannot and should not compensate the government. This also applies where chains no longer function properly and additional costs arise. Several speakers have already mentioned the vulnerability of long chains, including food. It can't go on like this. The prospects are rather bleak in this respect; we have to note that here too. And then we seem to be heading off again on a dry summer. If I am talking to everyone about depression, I would like to make one final point, namely ourselves. The corona crisis not only causes a lot of human suffering in the first place, animal suffering, a lot of economic damage, but also causes administrative delays in many cases. I would just like to make it clear to you that after three weeks of summer recess... we'll have about three weeks... until the summer recess. Then this room will be recessed until September. As of January next year, virtually no legislation will be dealt with in the run-up to the elections. This gives this cabinet and this Chamber in this composition about four and a half months to take concrete action. Four and a half months to establish a new manure policy, if that happens. To adopt a forest strategy when it comes. To work on circular agriculture, do you remember, Mr. De Groot, for example, circular agriculture? According to this budget, this would be done by 2020. Have you seen it yet? I really don't, and I don't even want to blame it, because we've had a nitrogen crisis, we've had a corona crisis, all of which takes time and effort. But I do put it in business here, coalition parties. Four and a half months of effective functioning we still have to get something done. So my advice would be: count your buttons, set your priorities, and if you don't get out of it amongst yourselves, and frankly, you don't strike a super-confidence on some files right now, then perhaps you should look up the opposition. Because then perhaps something can be achieved. Further delay does not seem to me to be a sensible strategy at this stage. Mr. Chairman. The second half of this financial year will also be a tough half-year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Oh, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u84	It happened really fast. There's one thing I don't want to leave unspoken. This was at the beginning of Mr Futselaar's contribution to the passion of Mr Geurts in relation to the abolition of mink farming. At least that is not how I experienced it yesterday, because I just know how difficult mink farming is. So at least I can't share that "passionate" classification. And the final point, to end positive again: did I understand from this that the SP makes offers to participate in the shaping of policies that are closer to the coalition parties than its own ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u85	Let me start with the first one. The term "passionate" was mine. I think Mr Geurts used the term "historical" yesterday, so we can use it. When it comes to the position of the SP vis-à-vis the coalition, I prefer to see it that way. I think we are closer to some coalition parties than the average of the coalition at the moment. If, within the coalition, contradictions ensure that nothing happens, and on some dossiers I have the impression that the contradictions cause nothing to happen, then it may be obvious that some coalition parties are really not going to name names, perhaps a little more looking for the direction of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr De Groot has not seen it. Yes, you must pay attention! Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Finally, Mr Madlener has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr. Chairman. These are difficult and complicated times. Developments are moving fast and the consequences of the crisis are certainly not all foreseeable. There are sectors where the damage is very serious, the potato and ornamental farming sector seems to be very much discussed here and has been hit hard. I am particularly curious about the latest state of affairs, because it is all happening quickly and every week there is almost a new situation. What I noticed is that the garden centres in the Netherlands are very busy. I've also visited a few of them. The prices also seemed to be raised instead of reduced, and there were rows in front of the door. So that's where it goes. I'm sure that's the case abroad, then, I guess. I think the Belgians and the Germans and the English would also like to make their garden beautiful. Then, of course, we must be able to export. That's the biggest cause of concern. We support the support package for those who are struggling, but the most important thing is, of course, the start-up of exports. I am very curious about the latest state of affairs. I also want to know whether the support package is still up to date and whether there are any new losers or sectors in the danger zone. And what about fishing? That has already been asked by others. There is a European support package, but that overlaps Dutch policy. It is difficult for me to see how the Netherlands comes out in the European aid package. We have also been given more freedom, I understand, to push budgets. This has already been requested by the SGP and I can agree with that. So are the borders open to our export products and are there any countries that oppose that? Are there any entrepreneurs falling over on it? That too is unclear to me. In the catering industry we know that this is true, but in the agricultural sector I have not really been able to find much on this issue. That is what this is about: to help entrepreneurs through the crisis, so that no companies are lost. That makes this additional aid budget a bit cynical, because a few days ago Mr Remkes was still pleading for the destruction or bullying of a large number of farms. The subject of'slaughterhouses and minks' has been discussed in other discussions. I won't talk about that today. National aid measures run in parallel with European aid measures. I can't really see how that overlaps. I am curious to see how the Netherlands will emerge when it comes to European budgets. I am always afraid of that, because I know how it is in Brussels. The nationalist countries are the French, the Poles are good for their citizens and the Netherlands is always milder, to put it mildly. Will the Netherlands also make more flexible use of EU funds? Will we not be proportionately lagging behind in bringing in these budgets for our large agricultural sector? Finally, Mr President. This crisis has taught us that we must be careful about what we have and that a reliable Dutch food supply is crucial. I am therefore very pleased that we still have so many farmers and are not entirely dependent on abroad. Let us cherish this and not just see our agricultural sector as polluters at the expense of the environment, because we really cannot use nitrogen and climate change at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the minister if she needs a short suspension or if we're gonna have a half-hour suspension, which is the same time as lunch. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.10 p.m. Or should we make it 12.15 hours? Yes. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 12.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u89	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with what Mr Bishop has just said. Technically speaking, we are talking about a support package today, but if you zoom out a little bit, you can see that this is a pandemic that hurts a lot of people, with friends and family, but also economically. I would like to stress that this is also really about the human suffering that lies behind it. It also brings out things: the vulnerability of man and the vulnerability of the systems we have built together. One aspect of that is that we think that everything is makeable, while we now see that it actually falls down very quickly when something happens. That can also make us humble in some way. We can think of all kinds of things and have all kinds of things in mind that we want and that we all think we can realize, but in the end we all live in dependence. Yeah, I bet you do. I would like to join in on this before I move on to all the technical questions that have been asked. Mrs Ouwehand spoke in detail about the ban on breeding. That was a bit in line with what was also the subject of yesterday's debate. It had also announced at the time that it would come forward with amendments. I shall go straight to the amendments, because I believe that the discussion on what is in them can take place. Mrs Ouwehand has tabled two amendments. The first aims to introduce the ban on mink farming in 2021. So she replaces the date of 2024. It goes to 2021. We talked about that yesterday. You have to have a reason why you're bringing this case forward. The judge will also check for proportionality. Ten years ago, there was a wide-ranging debate, up to the highest court, on what is proportional and how it is looked at. There's one thing I need to explain. It is possible to introduce a temporary breeding ban, I believe that Mr Geurts referred to it on the basis of infectious animal diseases. It was recorded in the GWWD. This was the result of swine fever in 1997. My predecessor then decided on a temporary breeding ban. So that soil of an infectious animal disease does exist. Mrs Ouwehand is asking for a permanent breeding ban. This may be problematic from the point of view of proportionality. So you also have to have a good basis for why you're introducing that breeding ban. This amendment goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u91	At first I thought Mrs. Ouwehand. No, Mrs. Bromet first. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u92	I have a brief question about temporaryity. Could that temporality also be three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u93	That, of course, depends on the reasons why you need it. So you're gonna have to back that up really well. This is also about the removal of property, a very heavy land which is always tested. Taking away your possessions and such is one of the hard keystones that is always looked at. You really have to relate that to a circumstance that occurs at that time. My assessment is that it is very difficult for the courts to anticipate everything now and introduce it as a preventive measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u94	For the sake of clarity, there are two proposals, including from the Labour Party and the Animal Party to do so under the Public Health Act. The Chamber will vote on Tuesday. Other sectors, too, simply had to be closed in order to be able to deal effectively with the fight against the coronavirus. According to that route, you can also announce a breeding ban. We are warned about breeding animals that are containable for corona and form a reservoir: don't do that. That means you have to make up for something, but not the grand prize. Yesterday in the debate, another proposal was presented: come up with a stopper scheme that is so attractive that all mink breeders will stop by 2020. That is the basis of this amendment. If that arrangement comes up... I understand: we have not yet voted on it and we do not yet know how the cabinet will deal with it. But if the Chamber chooses that route and so does the Cabinet, then I think you should shut it down as well. That is what the amendment is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u95	I understand the background to the amendment. I am merely trying to outline the legal frameworks within which the proportionality of this measure will also be considered. So far, even if you look at the case law and what has changed around mink farming, it always comes down to compensation or a long period of time. In the end, the long term was chosen; this is a phase-out measure. If you go through with this, you'll have questions about compensation anyway. If we come to an arrangement, they could be higher than a stopper arrangement. I should just like to warn you that if you adopt such an amendment, it may perhaps have an opposite effect in Mrs Ouwehand's view, namely that you will have to pay much higher compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u96	I'm aware of that. That is why we expressly opt for a different route. But if a lot of money is being spent, then it must really be over. That's our point. Mr President, in your direction. We need to look closely at the timing, because we need to vote on these two proposals first. Then we have to hear what the cabinet is going to do with it. So it might be possible for me to table this amendment with another bill that will pass before the summer, because then we will know more about what the Chamber chooses and how the Cabinet will take it. Our point is that if we choose to compensate for the route of quite a lot, it must be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u98	Yes, but that will have to do with the extent to which a company may or may not wish to make use of such an arrangement. It's gonna hang on to that. I can't force someone to collect a sum. When someone says, "I don't want any money, because I want to go on," there's that possibility. That's my point. On the other hand, you want to try to avoid that discussion. I also hear that Mr Geurts in his motion and Mrs Bromet want that. Actually, that's what I hear them say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr President, I should like to address myself to you on a procedural level. I'm a little lost right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u100	Me too, a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u101	... how Mrs Ouwehand now intends to deal with this amendment. You can't keep it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u102	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u103	... because then we'd have to enforce the whole law. That's not our preference. So, yeah, how are we gonna do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u104	Wait a minute...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u105	How about this? Is she gonna move it in now? No? Well? Can we not talk about it anymore? I think it's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u106	Good. Mrs Ouwehand, we are not going to have a procedural discussion. Indeed, you can put an amendment to the vote or withdraw it. Hold on isn't part of it. If you want us to vote on this, you will have to propose it to the Chamber at the time of the vote. If no one objects, we will. But that's up to the Chamber. I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u107	Very good, Mr. Chairman. I was gonna say that's how I'm gonna do it. Depending on the votes, I might ask during the votes to postpone this package for one week, depending on how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u108	You will also need a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u109	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u110	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u111	I find it hard to postpone such a package. Anyway, that's the choice of the Chamber. This bill is really about something quite different from the law on the ban on fur farming, but that is my personal opinion. Then we come to Mrs Ouwehand's second amendment. I have been thinking for a moment that this can almost be Mrs Ouwehand's dream amendment. If it is adopted and she becomes the next Minister for Agriculture, who, of course, has a great deal of ambition, then I can see that with this article in her hand, she can just pick up the entire livestock farm from the Netherlands. It has an opinion on it in the context of animal welfare whether it is okay or not. That's what I just heard her say. I think there will then be a problem, also in the context of proportionality. This amendment concerns a breeding ban or rules for breeding animals for all animal species on the basis of animal health or welfare. That's very open-minded. So I should be avoiding that in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u112	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u113	I am pleased to hear that the SGP is also being shared by the Minister, namely that there is a very real chance that the Animal Party will soon deliver the new Minister of Agriculture. That offers hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u114	Haha. Is she gonna do it? That is the big question, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u115	That, of course, is the big question, yes. But I'd like to take the minister with me. I'll take a closer look, but it's a can-determine, so only the possibility is added to the law. The explanatory statement, which always counts, on how this amendment of the law is then looked at when it has been implemented, contains a very specific description of the situations involved. That is when there are exceptional situations, such as the upcoming heat, the loss of marketing and problems in slaughterhouses. So the amendment already covers the situations in which you could make use of this provision if you are lucky enough to be the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u116	I really do read something else in the explanatory statement. It says: "is seeking to create the legal basis to be able to pass on land other than infectious animal disease..." That is true, but then it says: 'as in the case of urgent or imminent animal welfare problems'. That's a very open standard. It's another one that's threatening, so you don't even know when it's happening. That really is an open standard, so that you could actually proceed to a breeding restriction or a breeding ban at any time. Then you come into the discussion as to whether you can influence people's property. My assessment is that, on the basis of this amendment and these provisions, that goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u117	I think you've had enough of an exchange of views on this amendment. You have done your best, Mrs Ouwehand, to explain your amendment. I don't have the impression that you two would grow together because of more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u118	No, but as far as the Acts are concerned, I would like to point out that I would like to see whether I can make the wording even more precise with what is in the explanatory statement: yes, this is the threat. If you know there's a good chance there's a heat wave coming, you can wait, but then all those chickens are in those stables. 155,000 animals died in the stables last summer because of the heat. That seems like a real threat to me. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u119	Good. I suggest you move on. I think the verdict was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u120	Yeah, dissuade it. Then there are a few other questions from Mrs Ouwehand. She asks: is it true that pig farmers also have emergency facilities and does the whole sector have this? Pig farmers should have an emergency housing plan in the context of infectious animal diseases under the IKB obligation. It has been agreed with the sector that they will shortly develop measures for this purpose, for example by looking at whether other feed can contribute to reducing the growth of the animals to prevent too many animals from being kept in the stables if there are problems in the chain. It can also be an additional emergency accommodation by, for example, making a temporary roof between two stables. I understand that the WUR has been asked to present measures that can contribute to this. So it's true that that's also being looked at. We have been asked when the arrangements around the transport are going to enter into force above 35 degrees. It will enter into force at the end of this month if the Brussels notification goes well. We'll probably get a reaction from Brussels next week, but I'm gonna take a break. As regards the slaughter rate yesterday, I indicated that we are watching this, that the NVWA is also watching this and that I will return to your Chamber in the autumn. So that's what's going on. Mrs Ouwehand also asks about the aid measures and the conditions attached to them. That's what Mrs Bromet asked, among other things. The aid is aimed at alleviating the acute need, allowing the payment of bills and salaries. The scheme supports companies with a future perspective in order to maintain them. This is also necessary in order to make the necessary investments after the corona crisis, for example in the context of sustainability. Of course, we have made some agreements on this. We did not impose any further conditions on this support package, as with all the other support packages of the Cabinet, because it was really aimed at meeting the first need and really getting through it. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it is also a good thing that I give an overview of the state of play on yesterday's arrangements. Then your room will have that all sharp as well. Several members asked for it. Until yesterday, more than €156,000 has been requested for ornamental cultivation and food horticulture. Apologies, that must be 156 million. I saw a comma where there was a point. It's over 156 million. On two points, the scheme has been slightly modified, which may have an impact on this amount. That is the percentage that would have to be delivered to the hospitality industry from the nutritious horticulture sector in order to be eligible. That was 75%, and we reduced it to 60%. There is therefore a larger group from the nutritious horticulture under the scheme. That will really have a substantial impact on this amount. Furthermore, I believe that Mr Weverling has also been taken into account in the scheme. With regard to companies that have just grown three years ago and could not be taken into account because they had no turnover on growth, an adjustment is now taking place, taking into account the fact that that company has grown. That will also have an impact on the amounts. Moreover, applications will be submitted until 18 June. So we still have some time to submit the applications properly and well-founded, also because we have just allowed this clarification of the scheme, and we can also apply for it. So this is ornamental till yesterday. I see that some Members want to cause an interruption, but perhaps I can finish it, so that I can get the other things to go along with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u121	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u122	The fries potatoes. An amount of 52.6 million has now been requested. So that went over the maximum of 50 million. In addition, if the amounts increase significantly, the amount of €0.06 per kilo will have to be reduced, so that we do not go through the ceiling. So this arrangement has actually expired at the moment. Then there was also a question about the standstill regime for the fishing fleet. There's now an application for a good $6 million. That's for 238 applications. Those were the questions about the aid scheme and the overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u123	Then I'll go see Mrs. Bromet. And then Mr. De Groot? No, Mr. Weverling. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u124	I have a question about ornamental farming and the 156 million which is thus substantially increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u125	I do not know whether that will be substantial, but it will be increased a little, also because there is still time in the applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u126	Suppose it doubles, what if it turns out to be $300 million? Then it is only half of the reserved amount that the cabinet has made available for ornamental farming. What was the 650 million based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u127	It was based on a calculation that there were over the past three months at that time, but now this ex-post demand failure was similar to what happened at the beginning around ornamental cultivation. Fortunately, we have seen that the market has been attracted and that the situation there has fortunately improved compared to the initial forecasts that were there. This has had an impact on the level of the amount. For example, we have a minimum turnover loss limit of 30%. We now see that there are companies that do not come up there and therefore receive no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u128	This is a budget debate. We are now being asked to agree to an amount that is high...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u129	Would you like me to explain that to you? I'm giving you the state of play now. Of course, I have to see what the end looks like. The rules and frameworks are clear and everything that is left simply goes back to the general resources. So it is not the case that it is added to my budget and that I can spend it elsewhere. This was the maximum quantity available for this scheme. Fortunately, we see that the market has been better than predicted. In the end, you just want to be earned there in a regular way. If there's any money left, it goes back to the state treasury. It's taxpayers' money, and we have to be careful about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u130	I thank the Minister for her explanation. I understand the percentage for the food service goes from 75 to 60. That is good to note; thank you for that. She talked about the growth of companies over the last three years, which is being taken into account. That's wider than the food service?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u132	That involved ornamental farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u133	Yeah, on the whole arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u134	The whole scheme. Okay. That was my enlightening question. Do you have any good news to tell us about the ceilings? Between €500,000 and 3 million there is a very big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u135	For that, the rules apply as they apply. These ceilings also depend on the turnover of companies. They're fixed, and I don't have anything to change about that right now. These are the boxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u136	I thank the Minister for the explanation. It's clear. As regards the measures for ornamental and horticultural crops, the requirement that 75% be delivered to the catering industry is reduced to 60%. My question is: does the Minister have a view of how many companies will be helped by this and how many companies will remain in trouble? Because my experience is that not all companies can prove that, especially if they are supplied through third parties and that kind of thing. Then it gets a lot harder. Does the Minister have any further explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u137	I don't have the exact amount of companies right now. In fact, that must prove to be the case in the coming weeks. It is not only about the percentage you deliver to the catering industry, but also, for example, about whether there has been more than 30% of turnover loss. That combination of factors is not something I can estimate in advance. I will see if I can give a sense of this in the second term, but I will be very brief about the expectations, because that depends on a lot of factors, not just on that 60%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u138	I get that. But let me put the question as follows. There were considerations to reduce that requirement from 75% to 60%. What considerations have these been?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u139	That has to do with the fact that we saw... The aim of the scheme was precisely to meet the food sectors affected by the closure of the catering industry. In addition, we saw that we came up with the requirement of 75% to a group so small that we said: that was not the portee of the scheme either. We really wanted to look at companies that deliver to the catering industry for the most part, because that was the background to the scheme. Other parties were able to sell their products through other channels, including in retail. Mrs Bromet mentioned the example of a GroenLinksboer, but we have seen a lot more consumption in retail. Assuming that marketing could be achieved there and that problems would arise, in particular by closing down the catering industry, the 60% was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u140	My question is exactly in line with that. People eat less in the catering industry, but of course more at home. I also see in the supermarket that the prices of Dutch vegetables, for example cucumbers, are normal. They're not very low. I just heard that the prices at the auction are very low because of the market distortion. In other words: the supermarkets seem to benefit greatly from a very large turnover. This is reflected in the profit expectations of the supermarkets. They were gonna run into the billions. Is it true that we are financing the profits of supermarkets here? Let me rephrase my question: is the Minister prepared to check with the entire retail chain, the supermarkets, but also the garden centres, for example, whether the marketing, the price, is in line, so that the Dutch consumer is encouraged to consume mainly Dutch vegetables and flowers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u141	I think that's three questions in one. Firstly, whether we are financing the supermarkets. No, because it was precisely on the companies that mostly drop off in the hospitality industry, so not at the supermarkets. A side effect of this is, of course, that these flows do not all come into the consumer spending market at once, which would lower the whole price for the whole sector. That is why you are holding everyone who suffers from a certain price for those who give to the retail. It's true that the retail company that we saw of the week has made considerable profits. I think you've been lining up at the supermarkets over the past few weeks. People have often gone to the supermarkets, but also to other channels. The cabinet can't forbid that. That's how it goes: when one closes, people go looking for food in another place. That kind of thing really plays between the supermarkets and the producers and suppliers, who conclude contracts and the like with each other. So now I see no role for myself to intervene in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u142	The latter surprises me, because we have been talking here for years about the earning model of Dutch farmers. They are weak compared to the supermarket purchasing chains. And I see now at this particular time that there are very low prices at the auctions and that the supermarkets in my view, as I observe in my environment, charge normal prices for fruit and vegetables. This means that the task is to the Minister to analyse the whole chain properly and perhaps to talk to the supermarkets. Let's stick together. Supermarkets and other retail chains that run well or better than normal must also help. I think it's normal for the Minister to call on them. Is the Minister prepared to look into that and perhaps talk to these supermarkets again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u143	We talk to the supermarkets on a regular basis. We are therefore talking about fair prices, the role in the chain and the responsibility in the chain. So that conversation is going to take place anyway. Corona didn't change that. In addition, of course, we also have the bill on unfair commercial practices. I can report that the bill has now been sent to the Council of State, so it will be sent to your Chamber very soon. I hope that will work before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u144	Really? Because in every debate a bill is announced, so I hold my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u145	It's with the Council of State. Yeah, sorry. We're still just doing our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u146	So do we, but we also want a thorough preparation of laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u147	But I don't think it closes. I hope it will succeed in sending the bill to the Chamber for the summer, otherwise it may be just after the summer. But it's now with the Council of State, so hopefully it'll come your way soon. Then it is up to you to determine how the treatment is handled. In relation to the fisheries support package, Mrs Ouwehand asked whether I should use the moment to tackle pollution and overfishing. As has already been said, the aid measures are aimed at the acute need in the sector. In addition, we are, of course, working on the further sustainability of the sector and matters such as tackling the pollution of the oceans. Of course, IenW's colleagues have an important role to play in this. Then I come to Mr De Groot's questions. He made a rather extensive speech on the illegal trade in wild animals and plants. He asked me if I'm willing to set this up at the CBD COP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u148	Mr. Geurts, at the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u149	Yes. I think it is an abrupt transition from the aid package to a new issue, while there are still some questions about the aid package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u150	I did it at the spokesperson level, because it concerns so many subjects. So your questions will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u151	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u152	It was rightly a budgetary procedure, I'm just saying. 'Cause it really went both ways. I will come back to you on that. Am I prepared to do the same at the CBD COP? Let me put it this way: we still have to determine our commitment to the CBD COP. We also have to decide which parts exactly we are putting on the agenda, depending on which ones may already be on the agenda, and what will be our input. The Ministry's CSR is already going to discuss this issue with European colleagues, also to see how Europe is thinking about it. You are a bit stronger in such a gremium if you do so in a European context and not just as the Netherlands. There is, of course, already strict CITES regulation, which looks at the protection of wild animals and plants. But let me promise to state how I deal with this when we send a letter about our commitment to the CBD COP. I think we can then have a more extensive debate on this issue. Mr De Groot also asks whether I want to avoid habitat loss. I have also recently sent a letter to Mr Kaag, because the Netherlands is also contributing to reducing the global problem of deforestation and land degradation in a European context. For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to what was included in that letter about what the Netherlands thinks about it. Then there is a question about goat farming. Do I want to ensure that the provinces maintain the moratorium? The moratorium has been established by the provinces. So it is also up to the provinces to maintain that. They shall also supervise the granting of licences. I can't just intervene on that right now. But the provinces of course did not set up that moratorium for nothing. At the time when they are going to make other choices, they will have to answer to their own Member States and what is going on there. Moreover, the number of goats in some provinces has increased despite the moratorium. That was based on old permits. You can already see that it is difficult not to completely shield it. But I now have no other signals that provinces want to deal with the moratorium differently than they have done so far. Mr De Groot even asked me about it. There are a lot of things coming along here. How do I intend to deal with municipalities that are going to adopt motions on intensive livestock farming? Oh, that was Mr. Geurts. Excuse me. Mr Geurts asked, but I had the impression that it was also a little... I read back here and there about the views on the motion that had been adopted; let me put it this way. It's really not my place to review a city council right now. I really think that's the authority of the city. I am not going to go into that further. What is the situation with regard to circular agriculture, Mr De Groot asks. Before the summer recess, here I come again, President-in-Office of the Council, I will inform you about the state of play of the National Programme for Agricultural Soils. So you can have the latest state of affairs on that point. As regards fertilizer substitution, the Chamber has recently been informed of the state of play in Brussels. I would like to refer you to the newsletter on manure policy. It's going in the right direction. The commitment is to get clarity from the European Commission in the second half of this year to see if we can continue to use animal manure as a fertiliser replacement. As far as feed is concerned, of course, some agreements have been made in the framework of nitrogen, but of course we will continue to do so in 2020-2021. We will also continue to talk to the sectors about how to deal with this, also to ensure that the losses there are not greater than necessary. The reaction to the motion on the role of the supermarkets will also be given before the summer recess. It says how I deal with it. Mr De Groot also asks: what are the conditions for follow-up packages in relation to sustainability? I now have no intention of shaping further support packages. So I don't have to say anything about that now, because there aren't any.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u153	Did you deal with all the questions put by Mr De Groot?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u154	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u155	Then Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u156	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to include the illegal trade in animals in preparation for COP in China, at least in a letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u157	Come back to that. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u158	... but first of all, through the CSR, to work for this in a European context. That is, of course, a very good road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u159	Fine. Very good. Mr Weverling had some questions about the ornamental farming scheme. I think I have already answered them somewhat, because he also had questions about the ceilings for the food gardening scheme. I think I just explained all that. Mr Weverling specifically asked for the consideration of not allowing the plant breeders to be eligible. This was also discussed at the time with the various sectors involved in the aid package. However, in March, the situation was particularly acute for those who complied with the principles of the scheme. It is necessary to have its own production, with costs running during the peak season, while there is an acute shortage of demand for products that are poor or unsustainable. That is what the growers all meet, but that is not the case specifically with the growers. That is simply stated in the terms of the scheme. How do I look at an extension of the scheme? The scheme was, of course, really aimed at providing relief for the acute demand outage. We now see that it seems that the market is partially recovering. That makes it almost a classic arrangement. We were trying to catch the dip. We see that there has indeed been a dip. It's not quite back on the old level, but at least we're coming up from the bottom. So the scheme fits in well with this acute lack of demand, and I do not intend to extend it further than we have done to really deal with it at once. Why was the gross margin chosen instead of the gross turnover? That also has to do with the wholesale trade. There the gross margin is a more appropriate criterion. That is why, for example, there are lower purchase prices. The farmers have already been compensated for this. So it has to do with the whole scheme. Why wasn't there a retail look at what's being dropped off there? In the interrupting debate I just had with... I forgot your name. Madlener! In the interrupting debate with Mr Madlener it appeared that there was of course a different situation at retail. The fishing. Mr Weverling asked what steps I am taking to get the ban off the table. I say it out of my mind, so don't pin me on it, but we have a Agriculture and Fisheries Council at the end of June or early July. That is where I will draw attention to the opinion of 20 May. I will also call on the Commission to include this opinion in the progress report on the Technical Measures Regulation, which is scheduled for the end of this year. In addition, of course, there is still the procedure before the Court, in which the Netherlands is asking for the ban to be annulled. That is how we use the opinion of 20 May. Mr Weverling also asked about the latest state of play with regard to fries potatoes. I just gave you that information. Allow me, however, to comment on the rumor, let me just mention that the rules of the game have changed halfway. Mr Geurts asked for this too. I have to admit, for the sake of fairness, that it really irritated me that it was put like that. I think we can just see that the scheme is actually completely inadequate and that the scheme is therefore also in line with the demand and need in the sector. With us, a lot of people have been working very hard to get this done in a short time. That wasn't easy. I also read stories in the press saying that our officials were suddenly going to do something different than they had told us. Let me say one thing: "officials" do not exist; I exist. I guess they'll have to talk to me. But I do know that the officials behind me have worked incredibly hard to meet this sector. If that's the way to deal with that, if you get support, I don't know if that increases the intention to look at that again next time. So that is just a warning to the sectors themselves if they believe that this is the way to communicate. And it's been very clear from the start. The scheme states that all fees obtained elsewhere will be deducted from the amount of aid. This is about public service compensation, for example, the NOW or other schemes with which aid is granted, as well as insurance contributions that are paid. They'll be appointed, too. Of that you can say: now someone has done well by insuring themselves, but even that is deducted from it. The same applies to fees that come from elsewhere. For example, if you deliver your potatoes to a cooperative or to a processor who still has money to reimburse it, it is up to the processor to pay a fee first, not to the government. It has also been stated that for a small amount of money we can still do something with our potatoes, which can be valued high quality, rather than end up low quality in the biodigester, because you do not want that. Then we even said: if you can get a small amount for that, we will not put the knife on your throat; we will not take you back on that €0.01 or €0.02. In short, this arrangement is completely designed according to what has been put on paper. To anyone who believes that things have changed, I can say that is not the case. If people are going to talk about our people in this way, I would be careful to do so, also because of what the ministry may need in the future. That was my personal frustration. The potato growers have until 15 September to produce their burden of proof. That was also a question from Mr Weverling. Then the balance can be drawn up. I will then inform you about the final state of affairs. Then there's the export. What export barriers are experienced, even outside Europe, and is there sufficient cargo space available in aviation? Aviation business is also playing at IenW. There we see how hands and feet can be given to them. I would like to say a little bit more about exports, on which some of your Members have already said something: the Netherlands is economically large because of its exports, but sometimes also vulnerable. Especially when you see that third countries do not even have a single market within Europe; I think that the market still functions as a single market itself makes different considerations with regard to food security and production. The Netherlands should not wait for that to happen. We need to think in advance about what that means. I agree with Mrs Bromet, who says that the export of knowledge has a major role to play in this. We're thinking about post-covid scenarios. I think everyone should. But of course it is also up to the sectors themselves to think about what it means for companies, their sector, how to adapt to it. My expectation is that in the coming years, precisely because of covid, there will be some real changes in the market that will have an impact on production in the Netherlands. Am I willing to engage with sectors to explore these vulnerabilities? I am always in conversation with the sectors and have already drawn attention to this issue in the discussions I have had. Do I think that horticulture has sufficient financial leverage to invest in sustainability? One of the reasons for setting up the schemes is to ensure that vital companies will soon be able to make the necessary investments again. In this sense, the scheme may have contributed to taking the necessary steps. Those were Mr Weverling's questions. Then I'll come to Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u160	Thank you for the explanations and answers to all the questions. I'm still trying to figure out what the reasoning is behind setting ceilings. I find it rather odd that an entrepreneur who runs a lot of turnover, and now has a lot of turnover losses, is compensated less than an entrepreneur with a smaller turnover, who has just as much turnover loss. What reasoning is behind that? In a way, therefore, double standards are used. If you're a bigger entrepreneur, you can apparently trade more turnover losses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u161	I believe that larger companies have more opportunities to spread or cover these kinds of risks themselves. You'll see in practice. There are also the very large companies here and there are potentially very large amounts of money available to these companies, which could have an effect on the exhaustion of the scheme. We now see, fortunately, that this exhaustion is not as great as was initially expected, but if this market had been bad for a long time, those larger companies could have taken a very large part of that pot. This could have been at the expense of the remuneration available to other companies. That's what we wanted to have an honest affair with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u162	I understood from the written reply I believe from 28 May that the figure was 2.4 million, which was actually above the 1 million ceiling. I don't know what yesterday's numbers were. I don't know if you have it available either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u163	I don't have it that detailed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u164	I can imagine. Are you prepared to consider whether additional parties are excluded from the list which really have a problem, in particular because they are probably just a number of applications?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u165	Those are companies that can still get up to 1 million. I don't think that's a bad idea. I don't know if you'll ever get that transferred from the government. No. And it's taxpayers' money. I do not know the latest state of play on which companies are covered or not, but I do not intend to change that ceiling in this scheme. I think 1 million is a considerable amount for a company, but it is not an immediate achievement or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u166	I fully agree that we have to deal with taxpayers' money very carefully, but there are various crops. One company is about perch. That's less capital intensive. There are also a lot of growers who have invested 15 to 16 million euros in their business. So that's very capital intensive. In that ratio, about a million is a lot of money for us as normal people, but a relatively small amount for an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u167	They wouldn't have had to apply for support if it wasn't all that big of a deal. I think a million dollars really is a defense ceiling, even if your company is big. I know a number of companies have a really big business. Those are also companies that have opportunities to take risks themselves and the like. Often this is a bit easier for a larger company than for a smaller company. This has also been taken into account here, but there has also been an attempt to balance the distribution in that pot, and I expect that sometimes larger companies can handle a little more than the smaller ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u168	Then I suggest you move on. You were at the time of answering Mrs Bromet's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u169	Yeah, she specifically asked about the short chains. That is a subject that concerns me. We would actually have the national trade mission at the moment, precisely to stimulate the short chain as well. Unfortunately, we had to postpone that mission because of Corona. We're working on giving that national trade mission hands and feet in a different way. We don't want to let that go. We also really want to draw attention to this short chain, to food produced in the environment. I agree with Mrs Bromet that this period has also shown that many people suddenly became aware of food. Where did it come from, anyway? Where is it produced? People have also gained more attention for the producer who grows the products nearby. That is what we want to add up to. In addition, I, of course, supported the group that is working on short chains in taking initiatives last year. We're gonna keep doing that. I have already answered the questions that Mrs Bromet asked about ornamental farming. She asked about the implementation programme for plant protection products. We're all but done with the implementation program. That too will hopefully come to your Chamber soon. I'm sorry, there's more coming to your room, but it's almost ready. It has sometimes taken a little longer due to all kinds of circumstances. I admit that, but I believe that this is affecting everyone right now. How is it that the farmer in the Netherlands does not get rid of his potatoes, but is imported from abroad to sell? This will have to do with the contracts that have already been concluded at an earlier stage, because it was expected that the potatoes from their own country would no longer be there and the potatoes from abroad would be a supplement. I think so. That's the assumption. But it's contracts that are concluded in advance, and it's not like I can dissolve all kinds of things afterwards. But it is true that we encourage the purchase of as many products as possible from our own countries, especially from supermarkets. I also have discussions with them about this: see what you can do in the short chain to put the products in the shelves that are produced here. I don't know exactly what the situation was at this supermarket. I understand that after that people looked at what could be done for that.I think it was a Mrs.... potato grower.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'd like that, too. From my role, we are working to encourage the supermarkets, but also wider, to buy the products from our own country. That is, of course, the first blow you can make to support your own producers in your own environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u170	I would first like to see if all of Mrs Bromet's questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u171	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u172	Then you will have the opportunity to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u173	Let's see. She asks how the aid measures relate to the Green Deal. It's not like we're related to the Green Deal. The aid measures were there to keep those companies in the air. The Green Deal is a discussion in itself. I believe that Mr Timmermans is also present in this house now, so that is where the questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u174	Well, digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u175	Oh, digital. I thought he was really here. Oh, he's just digitally present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u176	It's really remote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u177	Distance, okay. But I think the conversations are taking place now. The Chamber gets another BNC sheet about how we appreciate the Farm to Fork strategy. Mrs Bromet asks how I see the hectare premium in the current CAP. It is aware of my commitment in Europe, including to the reform of the CAP. We, as the Netherlands, are arguing for more compensation for specific services that are provided. We talked about the trees last Monday, no, Tuesday. Of course, the landscape elements are included. Those are all things we want to include in the NSP, the National Strategic Plan. So as far as we are concerned, as far as the Netherlands is concerned, this broadening is also taking place in the CAP. Let's see, I answered the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u178	One more question about the potatoes. I was not so much concerned with the farmer from the Beemster or the one supermarket that Israeli potatoes had on the shelf. It's actually exemplary for what we see a lot, in a lot of supermarkets. I wonder what the supermarkets will say when the Minister addresses the supermarkets. The follow-up question is: can Dutch potato growers actually compete on the world market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u179	The fact that we now have so many fries potatoes is because we are one of the largest potato fries producers in Europe at least. Because Europewide the market, the catering industry, completely disappeared, here in the Netherlands a lot of fries potatoes remained. So we also export a lot of potatoes. Not everyone does. There are a lot of farmers who export potatoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u180	In this case, therefore, it was not the fries potatoes but the ware potatoes, which are grown in the Netherlands but which the Dutch supermarkets did not have. It's not about fries potatoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u181	No, okay, but just a little bit wider about the potatoes. We can see that the Netherlands is a very large producer of fries potatoes. We also produce a lot of ware potatoes. Again, I do not know in this particular case the exact reason why there was a contract with abroad. That is independent of my commitment to deploy as much as possible on that short chain, especially as far as retail is concerned. I also have this conversation with the supermarkets, in which they ultimately still have the choice where they get the potatoes from; not only the potatoes but also other vegetables. But you know my commitment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u182	It is the dilemma of the free market and I wish the Minister every success in the talks. I hope it's working, too, but I'm afraid not. I also like to hear it from the Minister when Dutch potato growers are no longer able to compete with their competitors abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u183	That's a very generic question. It also has to do with the circumstances. If you look at the prices for which potatoes are sold on one side and for which they are in the supermarket on the other side, there is a big gap between them. That doesn't even have to do with overseas, because it's the same in the interior. I also have these conversations with the supermarkets: what is the margin, what is your own role and what can you do to ensure that the price is paid? That is also one of the keys to the legislative proposal that offers unfair commercial practices, to be able to enter into that discussion and to have this settled if there is a real conflict underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u184	Good. You're on. Mr Geurts's turn is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u185	I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have already been answered. Mr Geurts has a good point to make when he says that we must also think strategically about food supplies and not just at European level. We are of course very much concerned with our own country and with what is going on there, but the corona crisis has also shown the vulnerabilities throughout our food system. It's all super efficient on each other. There is only one link to fall out and then we can see the effects everywhere in the world. Unfortunately, that is not in the least among the poorest countries. It has now been calculated that more people are likely to come below the poverty line. Where it actually went quite well for a long time, we now see that it really is going the other way. This is a very complex of factors. It goes too far to have the discussion here, but I strongly believe that the Netherlands has an incredibly important role to play in ensuring that all countries can also work on food security. Once again, that is not only in the trade of goods but certainly also in knowledge to make countries less dependent on distortions in the market and in the chain, because that is where the biggest blows come from. This is in itself a debate we are having in Europe. So we do not only do this in the Netherlands. It also happens to Mr Kaag together. We are doing this in Europe, but also with industry, the top sectors, the Netherlands Food Partnership and other countries with which we are going to form coalitions to further this issue. I'm very motivated to do that myself. Then there is the state of play on unfair commercial practices. The bill will come your way as soon as it comes from the Council of State. Sooner or later, hopefully. I come to Mr Geurt's question, which he was indeed waiting for, and I must now reply that farmers are not given any clarity to feed home-grown potatoes to their own cows if they have a combined task. The fries potatoes that can no longer be used for the production of fries can be used as animal feed, also on their own mixed farms or on a nearby holding. In that case, there will be no weighing vouchers, letters of lading or invoices. Users should then have the stock valued by an approved valuer. That is the evidence that shows that it has been fed to its own animals. I hope this is the clarity Mr Geurts was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u186	Have all Mr Geurts' questions been answered, almost?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u187	Let's see. I talked about Apeldoorn. Then there is Mr Geurts' tax question. We have indeed extended the broad weather insurance to include a motion from SGP and CDA. Luckily, we managed to get this whole thing done. This is also important for the coming year, the coming summer. I should also take a closer look at fiscal measures together with my colleague in the finance sector. I am not opposed to this, but perhaps Mr Geurts himself will first have a view on how he intends to shape it. I'm open to that, let me put it this way. I have just spoken about global food issues. Those were Mr Geurts' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u188	Thank you for the answer on those combined farms which have a arable sector and also dairy farming. As far as stock valuation is concerned, there are a number of farmers who were waiting for an answer, who did not get it and had to go through it. They have done so by means of weighing vouchers, so they have charged their cargo, brought it to the weighing bridge and have a weighing certificate thereof. I suppose that's a piece of evidence and that could be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u189	Yeah, that's a piece of evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u190	Will RVO also correspond to the farmers concerned? There are a number of requests at RVO, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u191	I will ask RVO to give clarity to the farmers as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u193	I have already told Mr Bishop what the latest state of play is with regard to the arrangements. Do I want to stay in conversation with industry organisations to see how a new blow can be avoided in the long term? We are always in conversation with all kinds of sectors. Then, of course, it is always about current economic developments, in which I always say that they also have a responsibility to be prepared for everything that can possibly come. We're having those conversations anyway. I have just spoken about the cultivation of vegetables and also about the cultivation of ornamental plants. So I have already answered many of Mr Bishop's questions in the broader blocks. Then I come to Mr Futselaar. Actually, I don't have a folder on him. He had a nice speech, but he didn't have any questions yet. So I thank him for his speech. Oh, he already knows everything, he says. It's nice that you say yourself that you're omniscient. I think that makes you feel very at ease, Mr. Futselaar! That's what he looks like. The PVV asks whether the limits are open to export products. Within the European Union, all borders are open, most of them worldwide. And if it is not, it is always discussed in the gremia that are before it, including the WTO. Are there any entrepreneurs falling over on it? We know that entrepreneurs are having a hard time in width at this time. There are also incredibly many differences between entrepreneurs, including within an industry. I can't rule out the collapse of entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, that is also the reality. I do not have an exact picture of how much this is happening now, specifically in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. But for most people, it won't be easy at this time. What is the overlap between national and European aid measures, how do they relate to each other? There are no European support measures for ornamental farming, nutritious horticulture and fries potatoes. That is why the Netherlands has taken this up on its own. In addition, we have been given the opportunity from Europe to regulate private storage. This is the case for a number of animal sectors. That was in Europe's support package. Europe has also said that we have the opportunity to use unused resources in the second pillar of the CAP where this is still possible. In the Netherlands, the funds are almost all invested, except for support for young farmers. I didn't think that was appropriate to use it now for other sectors. So there was no room there; there is no overlap. So we have this combination of national and European measures. And what about fisheries in relation to the aid package? I have just made a statement on this, with the silent regime and the requests for it. Mr. Chairman. I see now that I have received an amended amendment from Mrs Ouwehand. I do not yet know what has changed and whether I should respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u194	Perhaps Mrs Ouwehand could explain this very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u195	I have added that it is about the possibility of imposing breeding restrictions in exceptional circumstances, when we see that animal welfare may be at risk, for example because heat waves are coming, production is falling or slaughter plants turn out to be fireplaces for corona. The term "exceptional circumstances" hopefully removes the fear from the Minister that if the Party for Animals is in charge in the next period...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u196	No, I'm not scared at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u197	Okay, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u198	I just look so incredibly forward to Mrs Ouwehand becoming the minister and then simply having to find support for her ideas in the Chamber! I think that would be quite a challenge for Mrs Ouwehand. Mr. Chairman. The opinion on the amendment does not change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u199	Then I would like to thank you very much for your answers. I'm looking at the MPs to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Then we're gonna take care of it. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I have tightened up the amendment. It gives the Minister the opportunity to intervene in good time to prevent serious animal suffering in stables. I can highly recommend it to everyone. Let's vote for it on Tuesday. The mink discussion is a bit complicated. Once again, there is a proposal from the Labour Party and the Animal Party to impose a breeding ban on breeding with mink on the basis of the Public Health Act. The cabinet says it has to be proportional. So I think that will hold, because if it comes to a case, the cabinet should be able to defend to the judge that, if you don't, you will knowingly take the risk of a new infection. Then all animals must be killed again. The cabinet itself says that clearing is a very important tool. This also plays a role in proportionality. In addition, other sectors have also been affected by major measures. So I think the cabinet can very well defend this. So this is about the proposal: not breeding with mink. There is another proposal for it, from the CDA and GroenLinks, which says: come up with an arrangement that seduces mink owners to stop. I think that should be a very generous arrangement, because otherwise no one will stop, but I understand that this is not entirely the intention of GroenLinks. It's either one or the other: or there's a lot of money going there, and then you have the chance that all mink holders will stop, or you won't, and you still won't get rid of it. So that's complicated, I have to say. I see that Mrs Bromet has something to say about this. I think that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u201	Yes, Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u202	I don't really understand what the Party for Animals is so hard about. Yesterday we, GroenLinks and the CDA, managed to put an end to mink breeding, probably at the end of this year, three years earlier than agreed. If it is on a legal basis, as the Animal Party now suggests, the Minister has just told us that compensation is being demanded. It costs money, too. So either it costs money to seduce mink owners, as with the proposal of CDA and GroenLinks, or it costs money because we have to pay mink owners compensation. What difference does it make? Why is the Party so difficult for the Animals? Be glad this will be resolved after all these years! We can hang out in that together. Don't pretend there's a proposal from the PvdA and the Party of Animals on the one hand and one from the CDA and GroenLinks on the other, because we all want exactly the same thing. Probably cost just as much. Only I'm a little upset about it every time but stress that it's a big deal or that they're gold-edged schemes. We did not say that in our motion. It's not the Minister's intention either, so stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u203	But that's where the problem lies. Either it's so spacious that you actually seduce mink breeders, or you come up with a skinny arrangement and then the breeding continues. That leaves the motion open and that's very annoying. That is why I have tabled an amendment to say that it must be over. That is complicated, because we do not yet know what the Chamber is going to vote or how the cabinet is going to deal with it. But that the proposal of CDA and GroenLinks... I understand that the wish has been expressed that everyone should stop this year, but it doesn't. That's really just waiting. I think that's way too tricky, especially if you're gonna send money there. Mink holders who have already stopped... That is simply a real point that D66 raised in the debate: a transitional arrangement has been chosen and now money is added. The people who have already stopped, of course, want money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u204	Mrs Ouwehand, there was talk of this yesterday. I give you the opportunity to respond briefly, Mrs Bromet. And I would actually ask you to put your amendment to the vote. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u205	We shall see what happens in the votes. We'll see if it worked out by the end of the year. I would say to the Party of Animals: join and make sure that mink farming is gone once and for all this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u206	Yes, we do, but we are not convinced that the proposal of the CDA and GroenLinks is going to make that happen. I just wanted to remind you of that. It is a very important debate. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u207	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u208	Thank you for that. Finally, a motion on pesticides. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pesticides are authorised and used the active substances of which are classified as highly toxic, poorly biodegradable, carcinogenic, harmful to reproduction or hormone disrupting, which accumulate in the food chain, or which may damage human DNA;]] [[Whereas the Minister of LNV said that the use of plant protection products should be avoided as far as possible by 2030;]] [[Whereas this is of great importance and should certainly be laid down for the most dangerous means;]] [[Calls on the Government to legally ensure that the use of the most dangerous chemical pesticides for human and animal health was reduced by half by 2025 compared to 2019 and decreased by 95% by 2030 compared to 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35442-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u210	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u211	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister indicated that there would be no follow-up to the arrangements that are now in place. That is, of course, good news in itself, but that does not mean that the vulnerability of the sector is now gone. An example from the potato sector. There it turned out to be very difficult to process the potatoes in a creative way, for example alcohol that you can then use for disinfection in third world countries. There was no room for that. So, Minister, I continue to call on you to prepare for that and also to combat food waste in that way. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis has led the agricultural sector to receive economic aid;]] [[Whereas this is an opportunity to promote sustainability in this sector;]] [[calls on the Government to attach sustainability conditions to future support packages for the agricultural sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35442-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u212	And then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mainports such as Schiphol Airport and the port of Rotterdam are an important hub for the illicit trafficking of wild plants and animals;]] [[Whereas the illicit trade in wild plants and animals poses a major risk to biodiversity loss and public health;]] [[calls on the Government to step up the fight against wildlife trafficking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35442-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u213	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Netherlands faces major challenges in solving the corona crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the climate problem, and that the government is committed to combining the response to these crises;]] [[calls on the government to lay down conditions for any future support measures for the agricultural sector, so that not only companies or individuals benefit, but at the same time other social problems are solved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35442-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u214	The second motion is tabled together with my colleague from GroenLinks, Niels van den Berge. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas aid for ornamental farming has been allocated 650 million;]] [[Whereas improved marketing opportunities in ornamental farming have shown that this budget is under-exhausted or severe;]] [[Whereas too manyzzp'ers and freelancers in the cultural sector now have no or insufficient entitlement to emergency aid because they just do not meet the conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the event of under-utilisation of the emergency package for ornamental farming, emergency measures for producers in the cultural sector are taken into account;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35442-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u215	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and that's the next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, together with the Dutch agricultural sector, to carry out research into the possibilities of tax reservations for periods of drought, emptying post-animal disease and/or other calamities that may occur in Dutch agriculture and horticulture, for example,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35442-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u216	Mr President, concluding. I do not have a good feeling about the way in which the amendments of the Party for Animals have been dealt with. The fact that we are going to vote on Tuesday in this way, when we have not actually been able to have a substantive debate on this with the author, does not feel right at all. Anyway, on the website of the House of Representatives there is a slogan of mine: Everything in dependence on Him "Him" with a capital letter. Man abhors and God decrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u217	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. Is that on the website of the House of Representatives? Well, I'm gonna go check it out. I think I've got everything under control, but sometimes I miss things. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u218	Mr. Chairman. It's nice that my colleague Geurts is so close to hitting the nail on the head. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and colleagues for this exchange of views. That's been very good. One point still lingers with me and that is the point of the underexhaustment. I understand the Minister's thinking: these budgets have been made available; if they are not used, they flow back. I would like to give the Minister a little more freedom of movement in the use of budgets, so that, for example, there can also be a move between different sectors or sub-sectors. To that end, I would like to table a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the budget of EUR 650 million reserved for the agricultural support package appears to be under-exhausted;]] [[Whereas there are still major problems in various agricultural sectors, such as food horticulture and calf farming;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with sectoral organisations, to consider how the remaining budget, due to underexhaustation, can be used to support other heavily affected sectors and farms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35442-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u219	Which, after all, is about the mink again. I note that the SGP is now proposing to transfer money from the support package for ornamental farming that remains to other sectors. How is the SGP going to vote on the CDA's motion, which says that money must also be sent to the mink holders? Is that going to be on top of that as far as the SGP is concerned? I'd think, if that's what you want, use the underexhaustment for that plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u220	As far as I'm concerned, that's a bit of a cardigan pocket story. If we succeed now in bringing the end of mink farming forward by three years, I think you can see that as an additional investment that you are doing as a society. This does not have to be at the expense of other sectors of agriculture and horticulture which could therefore not be sufficiently supported. I'd say that's a bit of a miserable arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u221	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then the floor is for Mr Futselaar, on behalf of the SP, who always brings surprises. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talked about the support packages. A number of groups have referred to the fact that no conditions have actually been laid down, for example on the reduction of pesticides, including a wish from my party. But I think it is reasonable, also with retroactive effect, that that has not been done. Because when a house suddenly sets fire, you're not gonna say, okay, put it out, but go get double glazing. But this does not apply to any future aid packages, because they are not acute. Then you certainly have some degree to assume that something has to be done. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the major sustainability challenges facing the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas financial resources are limited and should be deployed as targeted as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account the achievement of sustainability ambitions in the preparation of future new support packages for the agricultural sector and fisheries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35442-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u223	Mr. Chairman. If you pay attention, you may think: what is Mrs Bromet's motion like, and what is Mrs Bromet's like, Mr De Groot's? That's correct. It is not my custom to file double motions, but the other two speak explicitly about conditions, which are only considered. That makes it a little easier for the Minister to accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u224	Very creative. Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Then I'll look at the minister. The motions will be copied and distributed. We'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u225	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u226	Mr. Chairman. I'm reading the motions right on the spot, so I'm trying to keep it clear. As I said, this has rightly become a budgetary procedure, because I now have a motion on plant protection and all kinds of objectives that we have not yet had the debate on. This seems to me to be a motion that we could possibly discuss in the discussion we are about to have on the vision of plant protection products policy. I therefore ask Mrs Ouwehand for this motion, in part No. We have not discussed this at all. If she doesn't want to do that right now, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u227	I would like to have a word with my colleague Mr Wassenberg, who is the new agricultural poison spokesperson with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u228	It's just been taken from you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u229	Let me put it this way: I like the file.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u230	But what was the verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u231	I have asked Mrs Ouwehand to hold the motion; otherwise she has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u232	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u233	I shall now come to the second motion, the De Groot motion in part No. 5, on which I am going to say something which I am going to say in the other motions. I have no intention of shaping new aid packages at all. So I think it's a motion that precedes something I'm not planning. That's why I advise against this motion. Then the third motion, in part No. 6, also from Mr De Groot. This is actually an uncovered motion, I'm just saying. I have already indicated how we are going to look in Europe to see how we can become more streamlined in dealing with illegal trade, that the CSR is committed to this and is working on it. Only, this motion suggests that we also need to maintain more and put more people on it to see if there is and to fine illegal trafficking. I just don't have room for that in the budget right now. We're really doing a lot of things here. We always have big actions, including around Cites. They always have nice terms: pangolin and whatever names. There is a real commitment to this, but I am now being asked to intensify it and I do not have the money for that. So I'm gonna dissuade that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u234	A brief question from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u235	I understand that, but that's not exactly what the motion is asking for. What matters is to make the controls more effective, to work together and to ensure that enforcement... The Netherlands has been in it for 30 to 40 years and we can't control it. So in that sense, the motion is a call to make the controls really more effective. Perhaps the Minister could investigate that. That's how she could read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u236	An investigation into the more effective... Yeah, but then it's really gonna be a different motion. Then it becomes an investigative motion and then I would like a modified motion, because this is really another motion on this point. There are some things that may not go very well on our policy dossier, but this is a really good team. These are people who are very dedicated to that. Trade in any illegal activity is complicated anyway. That's not an easy issue, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u237	But in what way will the motion be changed? If it is distributed, what is the verdict? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u238	I don't know what the change is gonna be like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u239	Yeah, but we're gonna vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u240	Mr President, I will amend the motion in order to ask for an investigation to make the controls currently in place more effective by improving cooperation between the various services concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u241	My point is that we are already working very well together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u242	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u243	Then I would just dissuade her, because the suggestion is that it doesn't happen and it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u244	Then we go to motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u245	But I am sorry, because I think I have just made commitments about how we will deal with wild animals. So it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u246	I can hear you sighing. I sigh with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u247	If I make promises, it'll be useful if they're appreciated. But yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u248	Mr. De Groot? Only to hold or withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u249	I thanked the Minister for the commitment, but it is about international commitment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u250	No, the judgment is already clear, Mr. De Groot. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u251	Then I come back to setting conditions for possible future aid measures. I do not intend to take any other support measures, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u252	Yes, Mr Futselaar, you thought you were so nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u253	No, but this was Bromet's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u254	Oh, sorry. I see Mr Futselaar standing. It's already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u255	There are three motions on aid measures which the Minister does not intend to take. But the reality is, of course, that we are now debating a package of hundreds of millions of aid measures which the Minister originally did not intend to take. Government is forward-looking and that goes for the House of Representatives as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u256	But then Mr Futselaar could have also signed Mrs Bromet's motion. That's where you looked for the nuance. Anyway, I'm gonna have a discussion that we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u257	Yes, Mr Futselaar will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u258	Oh, he's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u259	I'm a very easy person. If I think that setting conditions might be a little too tight for the cabinet and I better ask them to weigh things up, I'll write that down just to give the cabinet more opportunities to listen to the wishes of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u260	Then the motion to part No. 8 on the use of under-utilization in ornamental farming for the cultural sector. I would say: do this discussion with the Minister of Finance, because I think this is with him. I must advise against this motion now, because the frameworks are clear. All the covid support that's been given is extra money. That money has not just been added to the budget. The Minister for Finance has also been quite clear about this. That money goes back to the state treasury when there's underexhaustment. I do not think that the debate on what is going to happen with it is the debate that we should have in this committee. I therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 9 on the study of tax reservations for agriculture and horticulture. I understand the thought behind that. I can also see the hooks and eyes behind them. I'm gonna go see if we can get some hands and feet on this. Then I could give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u261	Very briefly, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u262	It is not my motion, but there are, of course, many more sectors that have to do with cycles or crises. I call it the catering business. Isn't it strange if we treat agricultural entrepreneurs differently, no matter how much I love them, here than catering entrepreneurs or other sectors? So can that research be extended to the entire Dutch economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u263	No, I'm responding to a motion before you. It's not my proposal. I would say: go into conclave with Mr Geurts. If it gets wider, it'll go beyond my powers. Because I don't deal with all kinds of other sectors. We've been asked to investigate this. I don't know if that's gonna work out. I see it as an effort obligation, not a result obligation. I can watch it; I don't know what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u264	Good. Please continue. Then we are at Mr Bishop's motion on item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u265	Same story here, too. The underexhaustment goes back to the state treasury. That is also the line agreed with Finance. This applies to all aid packages, not just mine. So I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u266	Brief question, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u267	I get that. I get the thinking line, too. What is at issue here, and this motion also distinguishes itself from other motions, is that it remains within the sector. It's about agriculture, horticulture, and in there you sometimes see that budgets don't quite match. That is why we are calling for the budget to be used in the agricultural sector in order to resolve the bottlenecks that exist there. What remains after that, of course, flows back. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u268	Normally, in the case of under-utilisation, you can also use that money in other places in the budget where there is a shortage. You may say within a budget: hey, here we can solve it this way. With the covid drugs, it's really different. The covid funds have not been added to my budget as regular budgetary money. They are really earmarked for the purpose for which they were requested and granted. This is not the case with the other sectors. That is why this is different and I must therefore discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u269	The last, in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u270	Yeah, last one. This concerns the discussion I just had with Mr Futselaar. I do not intend to draw up a new support package. So I must also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u271	Then I would like to thank the Minister for her answers. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u272	We are going to vote on the supplementary budget next Tuesday. We are also going to vote on the amendments tabled by Mrs Ouwehand and the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u273	I'm going to reopen the meeting. Because at 2:00 p.m. we'll vote first and then we'll have a VAO and a debate.
