ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the budget for Justice and Security (35570-VI). Today is the continuation of the debate on the budget. The cabinet's up now. I would therefore like to give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security. I would like to agree with the Members of Parliament that we are doing eight questions per group. Let's see how that goes. I should never say that, because then I know how it goes. Anyway, basically eight questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	I shall first give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Shortly before the beginning of the summer I put a large hourglass in my study. It symbolized the three months I gave seventeen internet hosters to clean their service completely and permanently from child pornography. There had to be an ultimatum. The limited time required real action. That's what happened to almost all hosters. In short, time did its job. That is a striking illustration of what Augustine said: "The world is formed not in time, but with time." This year our society was mainly formed and determined by the coronavirus and also more and more by the long time that that virus is now among us, because nine months have already passed since the first Dutch corona contamination was reported in Loon op Zand on 27 February this year. But it's like an eternity. Since that day, our country has looked different and our country is in a crisis situation. We also had to work as a cabinet in the so-called crisis structure until the summer. It is a new experience for all Dutch people that such a crisis continues for so long, with all kinds of crisis measures with which we have asked a lot of our citizens, while there were many questions with them, which we did not always have an answer to in this crisis without precedent. The citizens deserve a great compliment, because they have committed themselves from the very beginning to the new rules, to the fight against the virus, to the protection of the vulnerable and to the prevention of overload in healthcare. In addition, a great compliment to our maintainers, the police officers and the boas, to our firefighters, our other aid workers and, of course, the care workers. From the start of the corona crisis, they have been committed to new and additional tasks every day for nine months. I also mention the security regions. As I said, the administrative crisis structure must be changed in the foreseeable future. Cooperation with the security regions went well. They were the link between measures and good implementation. That went into the complex crisis with a lot of commitment and commitment from everyone. The way in which everyone in these security regions has worked together and how everything has really been put together deserves a great compliment. This also applies to the problem-solving and positive-critical cooperation from the regions with the regional presidents and, of course, all the mayors behind it. This has led to a national enforcement framework, model regulations, the pooling of regional information into a national picture and joint action perspectives, so that we have always seen a nationally identifiable approach to local level. I wanted to quote this again, because it shows that we have a great support in society for our rule of law. As Minister of Justice and Security, I have a responsibility that despite the limitations and adjustments, our rule of law will remain in place and lead everything. Even in times of crisis, we must be able to rely on the rule of law as the backbone of our society. And I dare say that not only that backbone is strong, but that confidence in our institutions has also been preserved. In this country, unlike in other countries, there has never been a state of emergency or a full lockdown. That doesn't fit in with our society either. The Netherlands is a country in which citizens in large numbers follow measures after having been critically considered and discussed in detail. And if there are people who oppose it, then so be it. I would like to stress once again that within our rule of law, you may demonstrate, and you may begin a trial, including on corona measures. You can also make a big criticism of the government. However, I would like to make the point that in this resistance you must simply abide by the law and the rules we have agreed in the rule of law. When I speak to enforcers, I hear that in those past few days they have had to deal daily with swearing and sometimes with violence, and that is unacceptable. That goes against the commitment that most of the Dutch have given to the rule of law. Nevertheless, police officers and boas continue to work day in, day out tirelessly for that safe society. Madam President. Corona has happened to us as a society, but we are also dealing with evils that have grown in our society over the years, evils that we cannot say have happened to us, such as organised undermining crime. That is a scourge that, if we do not do everything we can to combat it, could become deeply rooted in our society. I stressed last year that undermining is the greatest threat to our rule of law, and I am doing it again this year. I'm doing it this year, because in times of great uncertainty, in which an income can fall away and in which you may have to close your company for a time and despite government compensation you still can't find a way out, criminals can take advantage of your situation. Mrs Helder made that connection very clear yesterday. Undermining damages society with brutal violence, large sums of money that place criminals in a position of power, a shadow economy in which the upper world helps the underworld, young people who are sucked into drug trafficking and not least the harmful health effects of drugs. So we need to tackle this in a tough and structural way. That is what we are doing with a broad offensive, which I will deal with in a moment when the questions are answered. Another evil, Mr President, which still causes a great deal of damage in our society, is sexual cross-border behavior. In the Netherlands, everyone must be safe when it comes to their sexual experience, but that is not the case. When I took office, I admit that, frankly, I was shocked at the extent that this problem still has in society. The MeToo movement brought to light how often sexual border crossing still takes place and how unsafe people often feel. That has been the driving force for me to move forward on the modernisation of legislation on sexual crimes, and also on the subject of child abuse online, not as tasks of the government agreement, but simply because it was and still is urgently needed. Sex should in all cases be voluntary and equivalent. That's the norm. At home, on the street, in the pub and online, you need to be safe, without fear of unwanted sexual approximation. This should apply to all groups of people, especially children. Madam President. Another issue that cannot be sufficiently identified is our digital resilience. If I mention Citrix alone, the phishing attacks on civilians........................................................................................................................................................... Because of the security leak at Citrix, employees of hundreds of organizations could no longer work at home from one moment to the next. We almost forgot, although it was only in January of this year. We should not imagine that happened to us a few months later, now that everyone should be working at home. Phishing attacks can mislead people. That's often a first step of a cyber attack. Much has already been said about the ransomware attack at Maastricht University. By the way, I would like to emphasise that I greatly appreciate how the security region of Gelderland, earlier this autumn, has fixed such an attack and in any case has not given in to the demands of those who had placed the ransomware.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	I'm gonna ask you about your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	It's ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	Are you ready? That's nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	I'm coming to my...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	That's nice. I suggest that you complete your introduction and then indicate the subject you have on the list, so that Members of Parliament can assess when or when they can be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr. Chairman. I will come back to the last point, the threat of terrorism in our society. But first, I'm gonna go to the questions. First of all, I come to the questions about the capacity of the police. Like the whole of the Netherlands, the police have to do with the consequences of the corona crisis. Society looks different. There are corona measures that need to be maintained. Some of the crime has moved to online. The basic teams, in particular the approximately 14,000 agents working in incident handling, experience these consequences the most. In order to relieve the pressure on these teams in the short term, the police are taking measures. This is an answer to a number of concerns about this. It also explicitly calls for the solidarity of the rest of the 65,000 police officers by including people from outside the GGP services. In addition, we are currently facing a major replacement question at the GGP. Mr Van Nispen has quite rightly drawn attention to this in his questions. There is a large outflow of agents who are going to retire with an otherwise well-deserved pension. I think Mr Van Nispen and I agree that this pension is well-deserved. There is also an increased flow to other functions. The pressure on capacity also has to do with a change in labour supply over the past period. Police officers have to deal with a lot of demonstrations at this time that they have to lead in the right direction. There is a temporary extra bet for guarding and security. Also, due to the corona crisis, there are more reports of people with confused behavior, according to the corona security monitor. It was foreseen that the pressure on capacity would increase. This is one of the reasons why the cabinet has invested heavily in police and police education from the outset, for example 291 million euros a year to put capacity and inflow in order. But more investments have been made. For example, I will come back to the investment of 15 million structuralally made in connection with the Klever motion for a resolution in the field of vice. The point, of course, is that new agents are not available on the streets from today to tomorrow. That pressure will remain palpable for a while. I've written that to this Chamber before, in the summer. In reply to Mr Van Nispen's question, I say that the current expectation is that the operational formation and occupation within the police will be fully balanced from 2024 onwards, so that all the extra agents for which the structural money has been released are really, really, in the extra occupation. I would also mention the investment in additional specialists in cybercrime and digital detection. Mr Groothuizen has pointed out that such an investment is needed, especially now that criminals are making full use of the digital possibilities. I endorse that. That is why the past few years have invested in building up that expertise with police and prosecutors. The coalition agreement has already led to an extension of 145 fte. Following questions from Mr Van Nispen and Mr Grootehuizen, I would like to say that there have also been repeated investments in the capacity and expertise of the Public Prosecutor. In 2017 this amounted to 1.7 million euros and in 2018 it was 1 million euros. On the basis of the government agreement, a further EUR 1.2 million has been invested in the field of this special expertise in the field of digital detection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	Were you done with this subject about the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	No. Do you want me to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	Yes. Then I have Mr Van Nispen and Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	Finally, on the police organisation. I would like to comment on Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions about a defilé for former police officers and the Medal of Honor. About this. Every year the National Safety Day takes place in Almere. As far as I am concerned, that should be an opportunity for police officers to give that extra credit. The Medal of Honor has been awarded once so far, but there are more in preparation. That couldn't be done by the corona virus, but that's about to happen. Finally, I am talking to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Chancery about a possible award for disaster response and crisis response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	In fact, we all stressed the major problems in the police force here yesterday, many of us also stressed the major problems in the Public Prosecutor's Office. We have all talked about the major problem of increasing organised crime. The Minister is now putting forward a list of the figures and the investments we already know. But I would also like to talk to the Minister about the practice. We all see the shortage of agents, the fact that district agents can barely get into the neighborhoods. A Pact for the Rule of Law has appeared. Mayors are asking us for attention from the police organization itself. From the D.A.'s office, we hear there's more to be done. Now my question is to the Minister, who himself has acknowledged that he has actually been given too little money from the Ministry of Finance: is it then the angular attitude of the Minister of Finance? Is it the VVD Prime Minister, who has not lived up to his promises in the field of security and the rule of law for years? Why is that? What the hell is behind the fact that there isn't enough investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister, a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	Yes, a very specific question, and you will forgive me if I at least stress that I am a member of the CDA, because in the last few days it has been suggested that it has been the VVD for ten years, but at least there is now a CDA Minister responsible for JenV's budget. I think it's fair to say that. As far as that formation is concerned, there's no misunderstanding. It is not the case that my colleague in the finance department or anyone else in the cabinet would be at odds with the issue of extra resources, quite the contrary. I'm going to save it for the sake of time, but a lot of structural funds have been released in recent years. Only, we have to face very equestrian conditions that, as Mr Van Nispen pointed out yesterday, already 2 200 fte have been poured out, there are about 14,000 more coming. That actually adds up to about 17,000. We'll all round up those numbers a little bit. I let the Chamber know that next year we're really gonna get into a slump about that. But it's there. The problem is that we have to do everything we can to get the occupation in order, because so many people are pouring out. Mr Van Nispen can really count on me to do everything in my power to achieve the 2024 planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	I do believe that the Minister wants to try to get that planning done and he may be optimistic about it, but yesterday I really asked for a realistic picture of the problems in the police, occupation and screening that I do not think are in order at the moment. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. Looking at the police academy's numbers. The Minister is proud to say that they have invested in it. Well, you don't see that in the figures the Minister sent to the Chamber. You just don't see this in there. The formation at the police academy even runs down. I also hear that the flow of police education is far too high, around 20%. I really want the Minister to be honest about what kind of police force we have in 2024. Then it doesn't help to keep saying that you're doing so great and that you invest enough in it. I think that the debate is really served by a realistic picture, because many mistakes have been made in recent years by making far too little money available, even savings on the police. And maybe this minister can't solve it all. It's not about whether I blame this minister. I really want a realistic picture so that we can solve these problems together. 'Cause I think there are problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. I'm going into the numbers, if you'll excuse me. The expansion of the operational formation resulting from the investments of the cabinet, for example, the Klever motion and others, leads to an extra 2,400 full-time units, on top of the occupation as it was on October 25, 2017, the day before the cabinet took office. Then you go from 49.802 fte at that time to 52.204 fte in the course of 2024. There's that planning. I have written a comprehensive letter on this and I still support it. For the 17,000 that are pouring out, I already received additional funds in 2018. That's what I've notified your room about. In any case, these funds are used to absorb the huge outflow, either by temporary side-intromers or by financing agents who continue to work longer after retirement. We're doing everything we can. That's the honest, realistic picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u19	I am going to Mr Groothuizen and then to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u20	It seems that we often make money available to the police and then forget that that is what the prosecutor, the judiciary and possibly DJI are behind. You saw that a little on vice. That was a good step in itself. You can see that in cybersecurity too. The D.A.'s office says it's really good that the police are doing it again, but now those cases are coming to us. I remember from my time in Breda that there was one cyber officer who served all of the South Netherlands. So these people die in work. I think we should get rid of that system. My question is whether the Minister agrees with me. Shouldn't we actually have to finance institutions, but simply say that there is one bag of money for a particular job that the whole chain has to work with? It'll prevent you from working against each other. That's a revolutionary thought, but I'd be happy to give it to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u21	This revolutionary thought should perhaps be discussed a little longer. Not now, of course, because there's no time for that. That's not the way we should do it. I fully agree with Mr Grothuizen that cybersecurity is an incredibly important issue, as is everything about cybercrime. I have already said that our country's resilience is not up to date. I firmly believe that in a future cabinet period we must make good efforts to strengthen that resilience. That includes reinforcements at the state's attorney's office. I think that Mr Groothuizen would very much like to exchange his revolutionary thought for my view that we should therefore put it in a structural position with the Public Prosecutor. We should not say to the prosecutor: here you have a very large bag of money; if it is cyber security this month, you must spend it on it, and if next month is drug trafficking, you must spend it on it. No, we need to work together to make sure that justice can do its job on all those parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u22	I share the warm words about cybersecurity. That's good. By an operational budget, I don't mean one big bag of money. I'm not talking about a lump sum. I'm talking about you don't finance all kinds of loose parts in the chain anymore, but you tell the police and the D.A. you have a job together. There is also a piece of justice behind this. In that sense, you are trying to remove the bulkheads between them, and thus also to remove the incentives that I think are working against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u23	It is not to put GroenLinks in the spotlight, but then I will go to Mr Rosenmöller of GroenLinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mrs Buitenweg doesn't mind at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u25	It's a good start to the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u26	I was hoping she'd sit down again, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u27	No, that doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u28	Mr Rosenmöller has tabled a motion in the First Chamber. Of this, I am already saying out loud that I am doing everything I can to ensure that it is there at the beginning of spring. Spring runs until June so that you can use it at the formation tables. This motion will answer the question of how we can ensure that the budget of the whole chain is less politically and culturally sensitive. It will be much more stable. This includes the public prosecutor's approach to certain issues, such as cybercrime. How are you going to solve it stable and structuralally? In the meantime, I would like to say out loud that I share Mr Groothuizen's point: we must be very committed in the chain to people with cyber expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u29	I wondered when reading the written answer to questions what the Minister has against police volunteers. We have asked whether there are opportunities for police volunteers and/or people of the National Reserve to temporarily play a role, now that we are dealing with a capacity shortage. We are getting a reply from the National Reserve: 'Volunters are a supplement to the professional staff and not intended to cope with shortages. They often bring other expertise and can only be used for a limited number of hours. The pressure on capacity will continue to exist in the coming years, but in the long term it will decrease again, as more aspirants graduate and flow through from 2024." But then there's every reason to recruit police volunteers, isn't there? Now, perhaps, it is not to fill the capacity, because that is a good idea from the Minister, but then that capacity is up to date and then you need those volunteers for these additional tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u30	I have two arguments against this to Mr Bishop. The first is a basic argument, the second is a more philosophical-logical-budget-technical argument. As far as the first argument is concerned, no. I think we really need to realise that for the real police tasks we need the professionals who really meet the existing training requirements. I just want to leave it that way, because I think that is a very important thing in a rule of law. Then the second, more philosophical-logical-budget-technical argument. My colleague in the Finance Committee would probably welcome that at some point. That would be: friend, you solved that nicely, because you now have people who pay you hardly or no reward, or only a daily allowance, who are going to take over police duties, so for the time being we don't have to get those extra police. In the long run, you would get volunteers present in the police, while Mr Bishop and I both think that we should really keep our police at the current level. In terms of professionalism and integrity, our police are number 5 or 6 in the world ranking of police forces. We must invest in this and we must keep it high.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u31	My confusion, let me just lay it on myself, and it's getting bigger and bigger. Of course, volunteers are not asked to take over the core tasks of the police. But a police officer knows that the minister also does a lot of things that are not directly related to his or her level of education. Why not use volunteers to clear police officers for professional tasks, by allowing volunteers to do more other tasks? Think of certain surveillances; let me give you an example. Moreover, according to the Minister's response, they will be on top of the formation from 2024 onwards. So you're gonna need volunteers, if you're gonna guarantee security. I would therefore like to urge the Minister to look again at how to use that corps in such a way as to make the best use of the expertise of the policemen and women trained for this purpose, and also to take over some of their standard tasks by using volunteers who are motivated to do so by a sense of social responsibility. Use the powers in society. That's primordial CDA, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you for underlining one of the basic principles of the CDA. But a very brief answer. A misunderstanding. I have just explained in a reply to Mr Van Nispen that in 2018 I received 51 million, I say, for side-intromers, who can do tasks that you do not need to have followed the highest level of the Police College, or have not attended the Police College at all. Well, that's what's gonna happen. But these people are just paid according to the collective agreement. I do not believe that it is in line with that collective agreement to allow people to carry out police work without or without remuneration. But I don't think it fits in with the rule of law either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u33	The Minister introduces the idea of philosophically-logically, so I would like to build on that. One of the questions I asked was about child abuse. I have said that in a few years it has been more than tenfold. The number of detectives, those 150 detectives, has remained the same. So that is a huge task for them, so they are always lacking. I think there is a very broad consensus that we need to do something about this. The Minister then said in the written reply that he would do something about this, because the Klever motion could be used partly for this purpose. The Klaver motion was filed and supported here, because there were hundreds of sex cases on the shelf that nothing was done about. That was one way of trying to catch up. That is quite different from the fact that you are now going to pay out that tenfold increase in the reports of child pornography because it is philosophically logical. You can't spend the money twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u34	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u35	It is simply not right that these funds can be used for this purpose. There's been a tenfold increase in reports. My real question to the Minister is to look in the budget for some of the 5 million we asked for, to make sure that we can also do something about these reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u36	In the written reply I also indicated the number of additional FTEs to digital detectives that can be deployed in sex cases. The Ministry of Finance is looking very closely at whether I am making that commitment on the basis of how the motion was set up. I think that's what really happened. I am prepared to give Mrs Buitenweg a comprehensive letter and to divide it all for her once again. I can imagine that the written answer to the questions may be a little short, but the motion was very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u37	I'm counting my questions, Madam President. I know what the motion was like, because I co-founded it. There were also funds for the D.A. and for the digital component in the sex cases, but they all related to the huge amount of sex cases that are on the shelf. I have emphasized that there are new forms of child pornography, such as child pornography at a distance, that there is a huge shortage of services dedicated to this and that the number of reports has increased tenfold. I would therefore like a letter from the Minister, but not to explain to me what the motion we have written ourselves is like, but to explain how we have the capacity to deal with the increase in the number of reports of child pornography in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u38	That's the kind of letter I meant, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u39	Then I didn't ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u40	That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u41	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u42	I don't know if the minister's going to join the police because he's just talking about the police, but I'd like to ask another question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u43	This has been 99% police.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u44	That's what I thought. Then I have a supplementary question. We really appreciate what the police are doing. I think that's why it's useful if we give them one line. The written response, for which I thank you very much, states that the risk profile is constantly being addressed and for what is allowed. It also states that ethnicity and nationality should not be considered in principle. However, during the notation consultation, the Minister made it clear that the use of algorithms that use ethnicity and nationality as a risk factor is not allowed. What exactly is the policy? I think it would be useful for the police to get a line from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u45	I still support what I said earlier, namely that the use of algorithms is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u46	You said very emphatically at the time that it is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u47	That's what I'm saying: it's not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u48	But the written answer now states that it could be allowed under conditions. I don't think that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u49	Maybe you can check that out first and then you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u50	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u51	I will go first to Mrs Van der Graaf and then to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u52	I would also like to come back to the issue of child abuse online. Mrs Buitenweg has already mentioned this; I spoke about it yesterday. I specifically asked for the accessibility of the help line Stop it Now!. Now I have written answers to the questions I have asked. Actually, that doesn't make me very happy. I just heard the Minister say that he still wants to come up with a comprehensive letter on the cabinet's commitment to this. I would very much like the Minister to look into how the accessibility of this helpline, which helps to prevent people from crossing the line and using children, will be extended. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he would like to give a more detailed explanation to the authority that should intervene in those hosting parties. We know that three-quarters of child pornography is hosted worldwide in the Netherlands. That's absurd. I would very much like to know exactly what powers that authority will have so that we can put an end to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u53	I also saw morals as a subject in your list. I would simply include it in this, because I notice that many colleagues have questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u54	I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u55	Maybe you can do it now, because it's something everyone wants to know about. Be a little flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u56	I'm gonna lose just as much time looking for what I've already done. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u57	It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u58	On the first point, I say yes. I don't even have to look through my papers for that. On the second point, about child pornography and that authority, I would like to say the following. I seized the moment when it was decided from Europe that something like this should come up for terrorist content online, to say: let's combine these two now. Then there will be an authority, which does not have to sit with an hourglass like this minister and goes into names and shams, but which can immediately intervene in administrative law, impose heavy fines and make arrangements so that it can be closed down. Apart from that, he can also continue with public statements names and shams. The intention is that this will be just like what we now have in the field of the ACM, the Authority Consumer & Market, which is simply taking direct action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u59	Then I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u60	I'll explain that in that letter too, because that makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u61	That seems very good to me, but I would also like to know: when can we see such an authority? People must of course be deployed, but powers must also be created by law. Can it be drafted as a matter of urgency? 'Cause we can't waste any time here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u62	As far as I am concerned, this is happening with the greatest urgency, but of course a number of things still have to be done. There are still a number of implementation aspects. I am already very pleased that the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has said: we agree that there will be a ZBO. You know that it has been said from the Council of State: do not get too many ZBOs. So that's what we're gonna work out. I will speak to Commissioner Johansson on Friday, among other things, because she has taken over my drive, partly inspired by what I received from your Chamber on this point, also in Europe. I would also like to take that with me, because if Europe can help, it is all the better. After all, they may operate from here, but they are very often actually controlled by a server that was put somewhere in Verweggistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u63	Good morning, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u64	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u65	I must say quite frankly that I simply do not dare to face my colleague Chris van Dam if I have not come home with a medal. Let me just say that very clearly. What are we gonna do about that? I hear there's a medal; I know that. I also know Corona hasn't done much about it. It's being considered at the Chancellery; I understand that, too. But I would just like to ask the Minister whether he supports the idea of Chris van Dam, who says: something must come up as a kind of Invictus Medal for cops who may not have dealt with large-scale megalomaniacs, fireworks and such things, but have been so meaningful as individuals, on a more local level? Will the Minister tell us that he's really gonna work on that, or else I'm just afraid of Chris van Dam, and he won't. I'm more afraid of Chris van Dam than I am of the minister, so I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u66	I am, of course, very sorry that I am against Mr Van Dam here, but that is no different. I want to come up with a letter explaining exactly how this valuation medal works. That's what I'm telling you. It's not like we're not working on that yet, but we can't hand it out; that's kind of the problem. Then you're gonna have to throw it at someone. Then the fun of that ceremony will soon be over. That's one. Two: you must understand that I have entire conversations with the Chancellery about this special award for people with a task in a crisis. That is right, because it must be seen in relation to existing awards. But I say a letter in which I will return to the question of whether there is room for such an Invictus Medal. I'll get back to you on that. It's gonna be the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u67	And then Mr Van Dam will present someone who is already working on it and is very far in it, someone who is also being carried within the police. I am pleased that the bar for medals is relatively high, but as far as I am concerned, the bar for medals can be lowered slightly, because everything they do is already so significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u68	In a way, the bar is still very high. That's also philosophically logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u69	Please continue. You're ready for the next subject, undermining?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u70	If it goes on like this, I've got almost everything... Undermining, Chairman. We've had some really good conversations about that in recent years. I also very much appreciate the initiatives and proposals from your Chamber which have only been able to strengthen my approach to this issue. Undermining really is a monster. I would like to mention a few things, so that those Members of Parliament who have asked questions about them which I have addressed in writing can also see some examples orally. I refer in particular to the regional approach. The regions are giving a real boost. We will, among other things, discuss the motion by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Yeşilgöz on the mainports and the like. Also in a smaller port, such as the port of IJmuiden, known because of the sea lock, with a name that is difficult to remember, but which some members still know, from time to time you can see boats that sail at crazy times and come back much heavier laden. So we have a maritime smuggling project, with which we are working to make fishermen more resilient, to warn them and to arm them against the temptation of that fast criminal money. We have also financed a digital night register that allows better visibility of the ship's arrival and departure. I would therefore like to mention a number of these regional projects. In Limburg we now have a map of the one-day drug transport registrations by changing the procedure at the RDW. We now have a decrease in those one-day registrations by as much as 97%. You then wonder what the remaining 3% was used for, but well. Then there is the Integral Intelligence Project Synthetic Drugs in Noord-Holland, where a central intelligence method is now being developed to address the production sites of synthetic drugs. It combines comprehensive information. That has already led to all kinds of successful raids in drug labs. Why do I mention these examples? These are the smart speeches that Mr Bishop and Mr Azarkan........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These smart interventions are still regional, but such a seaport project in IJmuiden, for example, or that Integrated Intelligence Project Synthetic Drugs seems to work. Then you can roll them out much more wide, including in other regions. The period of use shall run until 2021. Those regions are now really going through the start-up phase, and it is now moving at a good pace. Mr. Chairman. Then there have been a number of questions about the so-called broad offensive against organised undermining crime. That really is a basis for the next ten years, and I would like to emphasise that here. Some of your members have also referred to it themselves. In reply to the questions on this subject, I would like to say this. We're going to pay 141 million for that this year. That then rises to 150 million structuralally. It's about rolling up, taking it away, and preventing it. I am now going to go through these three aspects briefly. There are a lot of horrible examples to give, and I will spare you them because we have a whole day left. But that varies from huge amounts of cocaine going through the port of Vlissingen, through the drug crime that comes to us from Spain and where we are increasingly focusing on liaisons in other places within and outside Europe, to, for example, countering all kinds of financial flows, but I will come up with more in a moment. Mrs Van der Graaf asked a fair question about the social costs of drug trafficking and drug use. Here's what I'd like to put to her. We have a lot of research in this area at the moment. The National Drug Monitor is something I can bring to everyone's attention. It contains all the figures on drug trafficking, drug production, drug crime and drug use. In addition, the Netherlands provides information to international monitoring tools of the EMCDDA and in particular to the Anti-Drugs Agency in Vienna. I paid quite a lot of attention to this on 11 September 2019 in a debate with your Chamber. I would like to do the following: in good time, so really early January, before we are with recess, I am sending an overview of what we currently have of research and monitoring tools, because the WODC has brought to my attention last summer that we have so many beautiful investigations or access to ongoing investigations that they should be brought to the attention of the Chamber of Commerce so that we can switch over much faster when there are certain research questions. I think the question is quite right. I would like to submit to Mrs Van der Graaf that I will present a summary letter early in January containing all the studies and what they are about. Then we can conclude what research is still lacking, and then we can say to each other: we now need to do additional research on this. Then it can be done much faster, then we can come to conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u71	The Minister is done with this part, I understand. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u72	I can also see that a lot is known in itself, but very fragmented. We know, of course, what the numbers of drug deaths are, but we do not know, for example, how many people have died indirectly from the consequences of drugs, drug use or drug crime. There are many indirect data not known, there are many clean-up costs, municipalities make costs, co-governments make costs, the care, it is very wide. I would therefore very much like to give the Minister in a broad sense to find out and also to monitor that regularly. Because the latest figures on drug deaths and drug addiction date back five years. It's been a long time. Our current figures are missing, so we will really have to monitor this if we really want to know if the policy put in place by the Minister and the Cabinet has any effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u73	Mrs Van der Graaf is always very well prepared, so I have to be very careful for a while, but the annual National Drug Monitor, which I always read with horror, gives really good, very recent data, up to and including details about the synthetic composition of another new drug that has surfaced. But I would like to stress once again what I want to do: in early January I want to take stock of what we all have to do with research, and for my part I will immediately send them in full. This would not be possible to answer Mrs Van der Graaf's question. Then we can decide before recess in an AO or otherwise whether we will quickly use it as research. Then that research can also be much shorter than if you were going to re-use it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u74	Yeah, let's make a correction. The addiction rates date from five years ago, but there is indeed an annual monitoring of the number of people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u75	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u76	...that dies of the consequences of drugs. That's not small. In January, someone died of that every working day, so we have a pretty big problem. Can I ask the Minister specifically whether he would like to highlight the social costs of drug trafficking, production, crime and drug use? It can then be placed as a key along that measuring bar. Can we get that to the Chamber in January?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u77	Yes, I am going to map all that, that last piece partly on behalf of Mr Blokhuis. I'm gonna have to run this by him, see if he wants to do this, like me, for the open stuff about drug use. I have a feeling he feels the same way, but he still has to decide for a while. But here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u78	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u79	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna say a few words about rolling up, just what's really important. I hear the concerns of your members. Can we stand up to what all these criminals are doing? When I call EncroChat, many will rise up and say: we have really struck a huge blow with the investigation services, because it is about millions of messages from thousands of criminals. As the police themselves said to me, a kind of blueprint has been obtained from the underworld. You've seen some shocking effects of a few of those messages just before the recess. It has led to an enormous number of things so far. The head of the National Unity said strikingly: you often have a case and you have to look for evidence, but this is the other way around; here we have the evidence and all we have to do is look for the case. But that doesn't take away... I would like to emphasise this once again. We rolled up 65 production sites for synthetic drugs in the first half of this year. Last year there were 90 of them all over the year. The Mexicans were just mentioned yesterday in the contribution of one of your members. In the first six months we had eight crystalmethlabs compared to nine in total throughout the year 2019. This really says something about good detective work, but also about the seriousness of the problem. From next year we will invest 82 million euros per year in MIT. This is really going to be the most far-reaching cooperation ever in the field of intelligence, supervision, enforcement and detection. This was co-founded on the occasion of last year's Heerma/Dijkhoff motion. So much for rolling it up. I'll be right back to pick up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u80	I'd do the undermining first anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u81	Do you want me to do that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u82	Yes. Then I give the floor to Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u83	Let's talk about the criminal assets. This has rightly been addressed in many questions. There is a great commitment among all involved partners to get better at that. That's why I'm working on a multi-annual plan to improve the take-off results. We really need to make sure that we get more out of that structuralally. One of the things that was raised at the time was the first one by Mr Groothuizen: the taking away of criminal property without prior conviction for a criminal offence. All kinds of examples are possible. If you're looking in a building for illegal weapons and you run into half a million euros, it's the easiest thing to do if you can just confiscate it as a government. Someone will then have to come up with a valid title to show that he has obtained that money lawfully. But you can go much further to pick up all kinds of concealing property constructions with catcatchers in that way. For those of you who are very much concerned with this subject in your Chamber, I would like to stress that I am looking at the British-Irish model. I have talked a lot about this with my Italian colleague Bonafede, but the Italian model is not very good in our country, in our legal system, so I am looking at the British-Irish model. Then there were some questions about the gatekeeper function at this point of banks. Mrs Buitenweg indicated that this is not always well recorded. I have now taken action on this in relation to the increase in reports of unusual transactions. Measures have also been taken to improve quality and follow-up. We have expanded the specialist capacity at the so-called Financial Intelligence Unit-Netherlands but also at police, FIOD and OM. That MIT is also an additional investment, especially in this specialty. I will continue to report on this regularly. Finally, I have recently extended public-private cooperation with the banks in the so-called FEC and in the so-called Fintel Alliance, which is a forum for cooperation between the four major banks and the FIU, with the support of Mr Hoekstra. In this way, we can also increase the effectiveness of the reporting chain. A sidestep, but this also has to do with this, concerns the National Information Point Internet Scam and the cooperation there. There is now also a strengthening of the sharing of data between police and banks. Soon I will discuss with your Chamber the bill Data Processing through collaborations. I will not go into that in detail. Finally, quickly avoid the subject of undermining. Then I've had the whole subject. This year I invested EUR 15 million extra in this. This involves preventing the criminal careers of young people in eight major cities. You have seen, for example, that Utrecht-Zuid has started the pilot of the school program Broken Strong. That's really aimed at kids from the 7th and 8th grade, who are taught by a district attorney, a district cop and an experienced expert to make them... I hate to say that I'm more resistant to possible recruitment practices and that sort of thing. It's just necessary that that happens. So I do not need to discuss the need for this. In his question, Mr Moorlag also referred to the need for a district-oriented approach. But then you also have to invest in better livability, that it becomes more liveable there. That means that you also have to be a part of security. In any case, a great deal of money will be made available for this in the coming years until the end of 2022. Then there's the coordinator's undermining approach. I am afraid to say so, but Mr Van den Berge has tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. To this end, a programme director-general has been appointed undermining, which plays a role in this. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u84	When the minister spoke of EncroChat, he quoted a statement from the head of a nationwide unit. But in that interview, she said something else, too. She talked about stricter penalties in the Netherlands. She said: 'I would like our target group to experience it that way'. So why doesn't the Minister really say a word about that? Not in his letter on that broad offensive, not in his answer to the written questions and now in this long speech either? Why not? For it clearly sees the preventive effect of more severe penalties, as does my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u85	In general, it should be noted that Dutch judges impose higher custodial sentences compared to a decade ago, i.e. generally stricter penalties. Furthermore, we have a separation of powers here. We have increased the penalties for a number of crimes, but it is ultimately the judge who decides in the Netherlands how to judge. International research also shows that the Dutch judge does not harm his colleagues in other Western European countries in terms of the severity of repressive policies, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u86	Research clearly shows that it is. And decades ago, we had no mocromafia here and no Mexicans with ecstasy labs. So how soft do you want to be? But then ask two, because I will come back to this in the second term. Question two is about taking that away. A while ago we talked very often about a revolver fund: what is being taken away is housed in a separate fund that in turn allows the police and the entire criminal justice chain to seek capacity to make that take away attractive to the people working in those packages. I know that's not structural money. So that's difficult, but to leave that completely unspoken... Wouldn't the Minister care to look at that again with the knowledge of today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u87	I would like to say that the mocromafia or any other underworld is certainly not related to the legal proceedings in the Netherlands. I find it really important to say that in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u88	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u89	You can make that right if you don't intend to. I don't count that as interrupting, but you can clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u90	Okay, then I would have that... I heard something about... but then we have that very clearly. But then there is another point. I think Mrs Helder's point is very understandable. That's what I've been saying. But it has been said in this coalition agreement for very good reasons that we would not create a fund from the proceeds, because then you would have two effects. The first effect would be that, if you are not careful, the criminal justice chain will unwittingly focus more on matters where these kinds of proceeds can be found. That is not the case, for example, with child pornography. The second effect would be that you are very dependent on the economy. I myself think it would be an idea at the next formation to think about a percentage of, let me say, 20% of these things being reinvested in this, especially Mrs Van Toorenburg has always argued in favour of this in the communities most affected. For Mrs Helder immediately agrees with me that the undermining is particularly so undermining because those serious criminals settle in neighbourhoods that are vulnerable, with middle-income people or below, who simply do their best in life and suddenly turn out to live next to one or other terrifying pill farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u91	The risk in these neighbourhoods is that young people are slipping into crime. Youth unemployment is rising. A lot of students can't do an internship right now. Frankly, I hold my heart that a lot of talent is lost and that talent is going to flourish in crime. That's what we need to avoid. In fact, I asked in my speech whether the Minister felt this sense of urgency. Is he taking the signals from the 15 mayors in the manifesto seriously? And if this crime and that risk continue, is he prepared to simply formulate additional policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u92	Yeah, I'll confirm that. I have always said that, but of course Mr Moorlag and I have not spoken so often. That is precisely why I said in September 2019, after the cowardly murder of Derk Wiersum, we really need to remember that we should not only roll up and take it away, but also prevent it. It is perhaps strange that the Minister for Justice and Security did so when he spoke to school leaders on these points, along with Mr Dekker. I am sure he will say something about that, perhaps more. We have also spoken with mayors and school leaders in the context of the terrible stabbing incidents and the carrying of weapons by certain young people. Those are all things you have to put in all the way up front. That is precisely why I called Broken Strong, because that focuses on groups 7 and 8. Those are kids from 10 and 11. So we have to get to work on that, but we should not just tell them 'beware'; we should also offer them perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u93	I'd like to call the Minister anyway. The Minister refers to actions he took in November 2019. But the effect of the corona crisis is precisely that youth unemployment is rising and students are no longer able to take an internship. In my contribution, I advocated not only increasing the number of repressive measures, but also using them on the prevention side. My question to the Minister, or actually my appeal, my cri du coeur, is: please make an extra effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u94	Yes. I think I can only agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u95	I think so, too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u96	You think so, too. Okay, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u97	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u98	Mr. Chairman. I'm way ahead of you now. I'm going into security and security now. A number of legitimate questions have also been asked about this. Let it be very clear that next year we already have 40 million additional structural funds for monitoring and security, and that this is still up to 55 million. I hate to have to say that, because it's just a huge bite of extra money, which, of course, you'd much rather spend on rolling up or preventing crime. But we really need this to provide people with that security. I heard Mr Van Nispen say that we are waiting for investment in the system, but I really want to point out that the increased pressure on the system has meant that we are now investing structurally in, among other things, additional capacity and alternatives in implementation. Currently, the recruitment, selection and training of regional teams is under way. In 2021, the first teams will be operational, and we will specifically use them to implement measures on monitoring and security, and for part of the task that is now being carried out by members of the monitoring units. I think the question is quite right and I hope to be able to come back to it in the spring to show that we are now working in this and that way, and we are now seeing the results in practice. I would like to say something specifically about the position of journalists. Mrs Yeşilgöz, in particular, has drawn attention to this, and I think that is quite right. Let us be very clear about that. Free, critical and independent journalism is an important foundation in our democracy. Aggression and violence towards journalists simply does not fit into this society. As regards uniformity in the handling of declarations, all the Protocol applies to aggression and violence against journalists. There is also the Press Protocol of the Public Prosecutor, which is mainly aimed at employers. I can also follow Mrs Yeşilgöz's idea of bringing freelancers with me. Because it matters to yourself, of course, if you're just a journalist and you don't have such a big media conglomerate behind you as an employer, but that doesn't matter to me. I don't want that to matter either. Those people just need to have 100% protection if there's even a hint of threat. I will talk about this with the NVJ and also with the Dutch Society of Editors, to see how they see this, because they are of course much more close to the workplace, and how we could take this up for freelancers. If it is necessary to involve thezzp unions, we should look into this, but I want to talk to the people who are able to say something about this from a journalistic point of view. Mrs Yeşilgöz also asked about the key witnesses. I think it's okay if I start by saying something general about the risks in criminal matters. Where there are threats or other risks to lawyers, judges, prosecutors and journalists, appropriate security measures shall be implemented within the framework of the system. If key witnesses are used, there are protection measures for them and their families and other relatives. It is always considered on a case-by-case basis whether and to what extent such protection is necessary. The same applies to any legal aid provider in the latter category. I cannot go into detail on this. A confidential technical briefing shall be organised on this point. There has already been a technical briefing on key witnesses and witness protection in September, but I would like to offer the technical briefing on the system and security in this light. That must be a confidential technical briefing. We are examining the possibilities and conditions of broadening the key witness scheme. We are also looking, for example, at the maximum possible penalty discount for key witnesses who are themselves suspected of less serious facts or who have a facilitating role in the whole. That brings me to the end of my points, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u99	Of all the points that relate to undermining?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u100	Yes. All I have left is a piece of morals and a little bit of national security, so things are moving really fast now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u101	That's good. Mrs Helder has already been, so first Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and then Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u102	Thanks to the Minister for recognizing the points and wanting to pick them up. He mentions journalists and key witnesses in one block. I would like to ask some questions about that in order to clarify it. We asked questions yesterday and they were answered in writing; thank you for that. In the written answers, I see that the Minister about the Team Threatened Politicians says he wants to see if he can expand that. I understand there might have to be something else for journalists. I know the protocols and I know press security. I have been here before with examples of journalists saying that their declaration is not recorded in this way and that they need more support. I'd like to get a reaction to that. And if I may conclude my reporter's question, Mr President, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Minister is discussing these freelancers with various parties. It's really about people who, for example, would like cameras, but then have to pay out of their own pocket, when it's necessary for their work. They have said to us: see if media companies can pay with them, so that there will not be a fund from the government alone, which may call our independence into question. Can the Minister take that with him? Can he have conversations with media companies that may be using freelancers? Does he mean if everyone puts something down, then we can also serve freelancers in a good way when it comes to their safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u103	I would like to extend the commitment a little bit, because I think it is also good to raise the issue with the NVJ and the association in that discussion that there are apparently declarations that are not coming right. We have also discussed this before in Oral Question Time. I immediately took action in response to the debate we had during oral Question Time. I'll get something back on that, but then you'll end up in a very confidential individual case. I think it's only going to come through there a little bit, because otherwise it's frustrating for your Chamber too, if I promise to ask the NVJ and the Society to indicate where things, whether or not on certain points, don't work. In that conversation, I will, of course, immediately bring in the responsible officer of the police department, so that we can do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u104	What about the freelancers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u105	Didn't I tell you I was gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u106	Then I'll take those promises. Thank you for that. Then I'll finish my question, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman. I think my colleague Buitenweg wants to go on about the press, but I still want to ask about the key witnesses. The Minister has just discussed this in detail. It is nice to see how the key witness scheme can be extended and possibly modernised. There are other aspects that could be improved. It's very nice if the Minister would like to take it with him. I didn't draw attention to that yesterday, because we didn't have that much time. He also said that during the criminal case there is a review of who unfortunately needs security. My request has been made for a year to bring that forward, so to get a map before you start a criminal case, including as regards lawyers, judges, officers and perhaps potential journalists who are going to write about it, so that you know in advance what kind of package you need and what resources you need. Then we can also commit ourselves, if necessary, if there is a shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u107	I think that is a valid point. I also discussed with the D.A. and the police a while ago that we really need to be able to see what it means at the beginning of a case. I've got that 40 to 50 million extra for guarding and securing, but you need to be able to make trade-offs at some point. That is a very difficult balance, because you do not want to be able to continue a particular case because you could not offer certain protection. It is already the case that NCTV weighs this in front of the trajectory in its threat analyses. I think it would be wisest to include this aspect in the confidential technical briefing I have offered. A presentation will then be given on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u108	A number of things have been said about the journalists and the freelancers. That's very important. In my contribution, I said that it should not only be limited to that. You can see that many more people are under attack in the social debate. We have seen that in the past year with Akwasi and Gargard, but I know that some of the directors of civil society organisations also feel unsafe from time to time and that they have reason to. I think a big step is being taken. The Minister states in his reply that no profession is ultimately excluded from the system. But that's quite a step. Often that is not necessary, but we do need to think about how we deal with the situation. What kind of security measures should we take? Who's gonna take the fall for that? Because they are often individuals who are suddenly in a heated social debate, taking the hits. I see that much is being done for institutionalised journalists, hopefully for freelancers, and fortunately for politicians as well. But how do we deal with such a group of people? Because they feel very often alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u109	It sounds like another death-killer when I say there's going to be a confidential technical briefing. So let me start with this first. It is quite right that this point has been raised. We're seeing polarization. Let me say something about national security in that connection. We've seen the same thing with the teachers. At some point, people get into a threatening situation, when you couldn't have predicted that in advance. This indeed extends to people, as Mrs Buitenweg mentioned, who are prominent in a social organisation under fire. But the teachers have also been mentioned as an example. The NCTV therefore writes the threat picture of the Netherlands. The issue of polarisation in the Netherlands has been discussed very clearly and also its consequences for our security. At the NCTV it is very quickly at the level of safety analyses. Of course, I cannot go into that now. That's why I'm saying that we really need to get through that in such a confidential briefing. Let us do this quickly, because in January, if you appreciate it, we can have another substantive debate on it or say that more needs to be done on it. But the great evil or the great concern is, of course, that it is no longer limited to the pure guardians of the rule of law, but that it also extends more and more to people who simply do their job in such situations. Mrs Buitenweg is right to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u110	Mrs. Buitenweg? No? Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u111	Under the heading of undermining, I think the cup of drugs fits as well. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u112	As far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u113	Okay, now's the time. Yesterday and last year, with a lot of parties, we drew attention to the problems with nitrous gas and designer drugs such as 3-MMC, where children aged 14, 15 years become addicted, all the way in this corona time. There are big problems. In March of this year, the cabinet announced that it would do something about it and that it would come up with legislation to deal with it. In reply to the questions I asked yesterday, I now read that the cabinet is still looking at the implementation consequences, including the budgetary implications, and that there is not even a text sent to the Council of State. The cabinet is stalling while we have a huge problem. I ask for action from the cabinet to send a text quickly to the Council of State, so that we as a Chamber can look into this and restrict these drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u114	I am in this together with Mr Blokhuis, the Secretary of State of VWS. Mrs van der Graaf knows that Mr Blokhuis and I are thinking completely in the same direction in this respect, but that we still have to implement this very carefully and then look closely at the budgetary consequences. I can tell you that we are talking about this this week, because this is very high on our desk, so to speak. We really need to handle this carefully with two ministries. I realize that urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u115	You know that MPs have limited interruptions. If you say you're going to talk to Blokhuis this week, will Mrs Van de Graaf be informed and at least the Chamber will be informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u116	Yes, I would suggest that we write a letter to you together. I can't guarantee that it will be there next week, but I would like to assure you that at the latest four weeks after today, we will write a letter of this kind to your Chamber about where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u117	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u118	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the subject of vice. I think it would be a good thing to thank your Chamber for the proposal for a law on vice, because we really got out of it together, to the point that I have now put a far-reaching change in the legislation in any case in the proposal. Which means there's gonna be a guilt rape in rape, too. You were supposed to know the other guy didn't want to have sex. That must provide protection for all those victims, at least criminal protection, who could not make their will clear or determine whether they were under pressure to say anything other than what they wanted. That has been an extensive journey. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about its progress. I intend to send the bill to the Council of State at the beginning of spring 2021, if possible. Still about safety as a national task. Mr Groothuizen has asked me, also with regard to women's safety, to bring to my attention the findings of the Safety Monitor, in particular that young women still feel too often unsafe on the streets, to the VNG and the Safety Council. I will not only bring that subject to the attention of the House, but I will also discuss it. I think that, at regional level, we can make really good meters in terms of the safety of young women. Then the deep nudes. These are pornographic videos or images that can be incredibly damaging to someone's privacy. Just for the record, it's about editing existing porn material, so that there are other faces on it, and so on. Mrs Van Toorenburg or Mrs Buitenweg mentioned well-known Dutch people who happen to be, but it can happen to anyone. It's the same technology as behind the deep fakes. This is a development that we need to map out, because this too is what I said to Mrs van der Graaf about synthetic drugs. I really am not interested in having to play another comma here and a point there. No, I really want us to be able to submit legislation on this to you which also works technologically and which also immediately includes all kinds of variants of this or other creatively miserable ideas. As far as I'm concerned, the WODC is still doing research on the broader phenomenon of deep-fakes this year. It is dealing with the possible need for additional legislation and criminalisation, and what they might look like. I'm going to come to the awkward point of end-to-end encryption for a short while. That is where the police run into the detection of many forms of online crime, such as online child pornography. I would like to stress that encryption is important for the privacy of all of us, and for the security of our data and communication. So we have to take this as a starting point very well and carefully. A downside is that as a result, investigation services are often no longer able to do their job effectively. I am looking at how, in a European context, we can gain access in a proportionate and legitimate way in those cases where we see that this is urgently needed. Mr. Chairman. I've already said a few things about cybersecurity. I have also indicated that strengthening the approach is part of our cybersecurity agenda. I have already said a few things about this in the interruptions by Mr Grotehuizen and Mr Van Nispen. If it's okay with you, I'm gonna leave that for what it is. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to my last topic. That is a very difficult subject: national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u119	Mrs. Buitenweg, has the Minister forgotten anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u120	I'm just doing some of it in my second term, Madam President. I would also like to leave something for Mr Van Ojik. But I still have one more question. I asked him yesterday. I am sure that I did not put it correctly, because the written answer is a bit out of line with that. I have indicated that it is incredibly difficult for a lot of people to get all kinds of things deleted online. That may indeed be about revenge porn, but not just that. The report Provides for requests for the rapid removal of illegal online content from the WODC includes the proposal to set up a central knowledge centre or hotline where stakeholders can go for an integrated roadmap. That's very useful, so they know where to go very quickly. Let this correspond exactly to Mr Van Nispen's motion. which has been adopted in the Lower House. In it we ask for such a knowledge center, so that people know exactly where to knock. I do not understand why the answer is: we do not think this is necessary. Why is that the response of the cabinet to a motion from the Chamber that was adopted, while the WODC confirms that that motion was useful?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u121	I do not often and I do not like to do it, but I have to admit that I may have failed to do so here in my written reply. I saw myself setting something like this up with that independent administrative body. That's one of the reasons why I said that we're bringing some things together in that authority. I did not correctly state that in my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u122	So you'll come back to this? That is the second point, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u123	I shall come back to that by saying that it is my fault that I did not do that properly in writing. I apologize for that. I'd like to explain my approach very briefly. I first tried to find a different, already existing institution for all these online content issues, which would be willing to take on that task in a sort of separate online room. I have failed to do so for all sorts of understandable reasons. That is why I have advocated doing this separately. The beauty of it is that we then have an authority with authority, which can also form such a hotline. People really know where to go. If you want to know about consumer things, or if you burned your fingers on your new grill, you can go to the ACM. At least that's what I'm assuming right now. It may then have a roadmap that says: you can complain there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u124	A road map?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u125	That road map should reach that authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u126	So you'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u127	I'll get back to you. I am adding the line on this point in the written reply, if I may put it that way. Mr. Chairman. I come now to national security, because I think that is an essential point; let that be very clear. It has disturbed me, too, and I would like to say straight away that MP Omtzigt has been threatened on the street. We've seen the footage. I said it at the time, but I continue to stress that this society does not tolerate this. We are not of the threat and intimidation, and that sort of thing anymore, of our people's representatives, our journalists, our teachers and others. That is precisely the hallmark of a free, open society. This means that, in the context of national security, I am not going to say anything about this anymore..... but that I also have a very heavy task in the fight against terrorism, the terrorist idea and ensuring that there is a resilience to polarisation and radicalisation, which I have just referred to in the brief debate with Mrs Buitenweg. The rule of law is not an empty concept. The recent attacks in Europe confirm that the threat of a terrorist attack by a single person or group is still present in the Netherlands. This means that we must remain vigilant and action is required. I want to say here that we are doing everything we can to prevent this radicalisation, but above all that this radicalisation will lead to the kind of terrorist attacks that we have seen horror in Vienna, Paris and Nice. Therefore, in order to prevent terrorist and extremist expressions from getting any influence on our society online, we are also working very hard to get a picture of them through the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator. I would like to say here that teachers are threatened in our country too, that MPs can no longer be on the streets, or even that a MP no longer feels safe at home. We must strongly reject this, publicly, but we must also ensure that there are measures to ensure that people feel safe. We have the discussion with each other in the places where it belongs in the Netherlands, and no further than that. If people think they should go beyond this, then all they can do is lick on it. I still have a whole text, but I will spare it to you on the fact that we are investing here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u128	You don't have to save anything from me. The point is that answers are given. I'm going to see Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u129	The minister's on a roll. Tough words. "Lick in pieces." We shouldn't have what we saw here, for example, in France, in Paris. But, yes, reality is not a piece of cake. I asked the Minister yesterday, and I did not see that in the written reply, exactly what the Minister is going to do about the behavior of, for example, that Leiden lecturer, who teaches his students. He's been threatened, just like Samuel Paty. It was referred to by the Minister. The Minister in France did not intervene in time and Samuel Paty was decapitated. The minister in the Netherlands does not intervene, while the names of the bereaved of that Leiden religious teacher are known. Those names are known on social media. Well, then I'm assuming the Minister's device knows it, too. How is it that we have a minister here who says he's a piece of shit, sounds solid, while the teacher is still in hiding and his behaviors are still out there, just like the murderers of Paty's same sheet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u130	Let me make it quite clear: I have said that the police and the public prosecutor are gonna bet on this with a piece of cake. They also look very closely at the traces that are there online or otherwise. You have seen this with the one who has been arrested in connection with the rioting of young people in Utrecht this summer to start riots. You have also seen this with regard to the threat to the teacher in Rotterdam. I'm not going into individual matters. You know I can't do that as Minister of Justice. I really need to stay out of that in the context of the separation of powers in our rule of law. Mr Markuszower can really be confident that we are investing in ensuring that the police, the public prosecutor and, above all, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security are fully committed to this. I am referring to the creation of security for those people who are being subjected to threats or intimidation completely unjustly, excessively and outside our rule of law. Their safety must be secured. But Mr Markuszower can also be confident that we are making the resources available so that the police can actually track down and deal with the people who set up, threaten and intimidate these kinds of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u131	I note, in spite of the once again steady and firm words, that the teacher is still in hiding and that those who are known to the police are still out there. I also note that the average punishment given to convicted terrorists in the Netherlands is very low. I also asked the Minister yesterday, but today's written reply does not answer what he himself thinks of those awfully low penalties given to convicted terrorists in the Netherlands. On average, these are punishments of a year and a half. Under the rule of this minister, terrorists are not being judged because I make it up, but because the judge says they are terrorists for terrorist acts sentenced to up to three years. But there have also been sentences handed out for a year and a half. That's not serious, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u132	I'll start with the last one. Mr Markuszower knows, or at least knows, that I, as Minister for Justice and Security, have nothing to do with and comment on the judgments that judges make in our society. That's the way it's supposed to be. It is of course entirely up to the Chamber to decide on this as a Chamber, but I must stay far from it. Next, Mr Markuszower has a right point that we really need to ensure a balanced coherence of prevention, so that these people do not get into the radicalisation process, repressive and administrative approach. An administrative approach that translates, for example, into the administrative bans for people who spread the wrong ideas. An administrative approach that also translates into matters such as the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. And so there are more. Mr Markuszower may be assured that the police and prosecutors of the Ministry will have the means and possibilities to make full use of them. Whatever the outcome is before the courts also depends on the specific case. We have an excellent lawyer in the Netherlands. We can say that quietly and she does her work in that too, but that depends on the evidence. But I want to say very clearly that I cannot go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u133	The Minister spoke the right words about condemning intimidation and threatening politicians. But will the Minister then ensure unity of policy? I have seen an enormous radicalisation taking place among farmers. Organizations trivialize the holocaust and the police are threatened. In action even a police horse was hit. Then I have to say that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture are rolling out the red carpet in order to accept representatives of those organisations which are part of a wider agricultural council as a consultative partner. I have expressed my disapproval of this. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he wants to promote a genuine unity of government policy, and that this type of organisation, which the NCTV also pays attention to in his reporting, is being excluded from consultation tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u134	Do you agree, through the chairman, to ask Mr Moorlag, that I, or rather the cabinet, return to that in a letter? Because that, I think, requires a broader answer; you are asking for cabinet policy. I will return to that in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u135	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u136	I still have three separate questions. I'll take care of it very soon. I also have an answer for Mrs Van Beuker, and then a small word, if you will. First of all, Mrs Yeşilgöz was right to ask about compensation for victims of bank fraud. I can tell you that I had the conversation she was right to have. I have informed your Chamber about this in a room of 2019 (28684, no. 638). Banks are now largely compensating for the damage caused by the banking fraud, unless there is gross negligence on the part of someone. But there is something new, which I think Mrs Yeşilgöz and also Mrs Van Toorenburg, who have very often insisted on, and I see it as a major step forward. As of January, they will provide victims with NAW data under conditions, so that they are able to take civil action against fraudsters. We've taken a trip together to get that far. Fortunately, however, I have been sufficiently hunted by your Chamber to continue to appeal to the banks. I'm gonna keep talking to them to get into this, too. I would like to say to Mr Wassenberg that I very much expect the bill on the restraining ban in December to go to the Council of State for advice. I want to say out loud that I don't like the fact that it took a long time either. I would add that in the last ten months, precisely because of the corona story, there have been some complicating factors, but I am just saying out loud: Mr Wassenberg has rightly criticised. This could have been much faster. That's why I want to say this out loud to him. Let me now turn to Mrs Van Beuker's question. I think there was a punctuation error in the relevant written reply. So here too I would like to make it clear that there is no selection for ethnicity. In principle, this does not happen on the basis of nationality either, as this can sometimes be justified. That is what the Supreme Court has said in the so-called Moulander judgment that this can be done, if it is well justified by appropriateness and necessity. Then the Supreme Court mentions cross-border crime. Then I'm gonna go back to that, but we're not gonna talk about that right now, I think we're gonna go to that project in Roermond. But then I still have what Mrs Van Beuker is right to hold me to, namely what I said to the AO: selection does not take place on ethnicity. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one final question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u137	You'd better answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u138	Do you want me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u139	Yes, because I see Mr Wassenberg as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u140	And then a final word. Mrs Buitenweg asked each of us: how did you experience it? But she added: the past cabinet period. I thought that was a bit bleak, because we're not here yet, so it might be a little early. But I still want to give a preliminary reaction. First of all, I shall leave it to colleagues to say their thing about it, of course, the Ministry and the people who work there very well. Under the previous Secretary-General and the current one, culture has become more open. People work with passion and knowledge, and here it comes, to justice and security. My second experience is that it is a ministry with, let me say with an understatement, a lot of topics. But together, I can say, you can't take them apart. They belong together. I've said it before: without justice, there's no security. If you don't have justice, you don't control the people who take care of your safety. Worse is: without security, no justice. I refer to the Soviet Union. It had fundamental rights, but dare to stand up for them. Then you could go unheated to Siberia. Mr. Chairman. Then my third experience, with which I want to close. Corona has entered deep into our society. The pandemic has cost lives and destroyed lives. She's really taken our society out of the lead. But I can still see that there has been a great sense of solidarity, voluntaryness and commitment in the Netherlands. That's so good, because we're all the rule of law. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u141	No, Mr. Grand Houses, I still have Mr. Wassenberg and Mrs. Yeşilgöz. If you're in the front seat, you won't see it. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u142	In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that the bill on the restraining ban will go quickly to the Council of State. Hopefully it can be offered to the Chamber by the end of January. But I have another question about the police dogs. I didn't know exactly where to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u143	That was at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u144	Okay. I want to ask a question about the police dogs now. The Minister writes in his written reply that there is actually not that much wrong. At the same time, the mayor of Rotterdam, Mr Aboutaleb, asked for a meeting with the minister and regional mayors about the use of police dogs because of the broadcast of Zembla on which I asked these questions. Apparently, he thinks something's wrong. Next, the Minister also writes in his answer, in the answer to question 167: 'The use of the dog by throwing it into a window or into someone's neck is not part of the commitment as taught, trained or certified by the police.' It's not part of the training. But Zembla also showed an instruction video of the Rotterdam police. I've got a still out of that. This is an instruction video from the Rotterdam police, in which a dog is thrown through the window of a car. And that dog is attacking the suspect. Apparently it is part of the instructional videos. How does the Minister feel about that? You can't say with dry eyes that it has nothing to do with the instruction or with the training?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u145	Let me say first of all that I understand the criticisms. The change in the instructions of office will also really pay attention to this, so to speak. I do not know the video to which Mr Van Wassenberg refers. I'd almost like to say, let's look at it together; at 1.5 meters, of course, but okay. But if that is an instruction video, it must be said very clearly that something went wrong there, because this is not part of the instruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u146	I'm fine watching that video with the minister for once, but the minister can also watch that broadcast of Zembla last week. Apparently, he didn't see it either. I would strongly advise him to do so, because there is also part of that instruction video. So all the minister has to do is watch Zembla's broadcast. Then he can see for himself. I'm fine with watching that video, too, but the minister doesn't have to go looking for that video. I ask him: take another look at that broadcast of Zembla and then perhaps come back to it in writing later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u147	Mr Van Wassenberg also saw it in my comment on the restraining ban: I take it upon myself if there are no animal-related issues as we can deal with them properly. As far as police dogs are concerned, I have made it very clear that this is not part of the instruction. I must confess that I hope Mr Van Wassenberg will forgive me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u148	Mr President, my name is Wassenberg. You can leave out the prefix. Then the debate will also get a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u149	Wassenberg, without Van.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u150	Apologies, yes, Wassenberg. I've said three times that I'm sorry. That's charm. But back up, Mr. Chairman. So I understand the criticism. That's what it was all about. This is contrary to what I would like to say specifically with the instruction of use. I'll be sure to contact you about that. Let me just say that. That is what this is about, and Mr Wassenberg is right to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u151	Also a reaction to what was shown in Zembla. The Minister will return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u152	Yes, I will return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u153	I had Mrs Yeşilgöz and then Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u154	Thank you to the Minister for the fine words that we are now making a bit of a mess. I want to come back to a point of a while ago, for which I apologize. I just want to get back to that end-to-end encryption. If I understand correctly, the Minister said that he is also looking at what can be done in a European context in order to use it better for detection. The Minister has made a number of commitments to GroenLinks. Has he also promised to take the Chamber with him in what is being discussed there and can it do so before Christmas? I am asking this explicitly, because that end-to-end encryption is important for our security. According to what I understand from experts, there's not a lot of gray between throwing the back door or not. That's what the opinions are very different about. If the Minister wants to involve us in what he is thinking about before Christmas, so that we have room to find some of it, I would be very pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u155	For Christmastreces, perhaps something ambitious is, because I do not know whether I can make a sensible point of view on this. But what Mrs Yeşilgöz quite rightly touches on is that Mrs Buitenweg has already drawn attention to this on previous occasions, and by the way Mr Verhoeven of D66 and Mr Van Dam during the unfortunately poorly visited AO's Cybersecurity, where there were always only two members, is that we need to look very closely: end-to-end encryption is really important to ordinary citizens. It was Mr Bishop who drew attention to this yesterday: privacy should not become a shield for criminals. I would first like to discuss this matter with Commissioner Johansson to see how people view it. But I promise you I'll get back to the Chamber before I even take a step there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u156	Okay, well, that's not gonna be for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u157	I'm afraid that's too ambitious. Depends, of course, when it's Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u158	The Christmas celebrations of 2020, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u159	The Minister was right to speak about the Soviet Union, which we should not slip into. Unfortunately, we have to note that a country like Hungary is going a bit that way. There are even Swedish scientists now who say that this is no longer a democratic rule of law. Yesterday, the European Court of Justice ruled on the special powers of appointment of the Public Prosecutor. That prevents you from seeing the D.A. as an independent judicial authority. That's why I filed that bill. This morning I see that the Hungarian Minister of Justice addresses the Netherlands on Twitter. He says: The Netherlands has a very big mouth, but look what the European Court of Justice says about this. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at the fact that something in our law is putting us in such a discussion with a country that is clearly slipping.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u160	Let me start by saying something about the tie I am wearing today, which belongs to the Hungarian judicial organisations. I don't know if they look very much at Politics 24, you never know, but as a sign of solidarity to them. That's one. Two: I am sure that we will find a solution to the issue raised by the Court of Justice, in the sense that we will still put it down to what is seen as a judicial authority. Perhaps it is said by the outside world, looking at our legal system, that you should invest it elsewhere. That's the kind of criticism you always have to be open to, otherwise you're gonna be the reverend with the finger. That could have been a pastor, by the way. Finally, for those who are concerned about this, I should like to point out that the appointment of the Minister can only be exercised if it has been mentioned to the Chamber. I never used that designation as a minister. I have said a few times here in the Chamber that unless the Chamber will force me to use it, I will not do so. For I fully agree with Mr Grothuizen that I am politically responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office, but the Public Prosecutor must be autonomous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u161	I hope the Minister will take a serious look at it. When he took office, he expressed himself as someone who had fallen into the cauldron of law. I would say: act now as Obelix of the rule of law and look at these elements. The hairstyle is different, but that is the behavior I expect from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u162	Good. That's a call, not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u163	You know that Obelix's constant understanding was: fat people are cozy people. So we shouldn't forget that. Mr. Chairman. On this last point, I would like to emphasise Mr Groothuizen... I do not, of course, wish to interrupt Mr Groothuizen's conversation. I would like to stress to him what I just said at the end. I think it makes us strong as a country that we take criticism and that we see it also in corona have solidarity in our society. As a result, I dare to say out loud that all of us, including everyone else outside, are the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u164	Good. Thank you. I'm suspending the sitting for two minutes so there can be a change. Then we'll continue with the answers...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u165	Do you want me to do my hair?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u166	Yes, do your hair first. Then we'll continue with the Secretary of Law. Minister, we need to clean up first. I know you feel like getting started right away, but it's gonna take a while, so I'd like to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u167	The co-worker isn't dirty of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u168	No, I can see that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u169	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u170	Mr President, would you like me to briefly tell you what steps I am going to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u171	Sure. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u172	I'll do an intro for a very short time. Then I would like to start with access to justice and then the case law. Then there will be a block of safety things: punishment, recidivism and prevention. Then there will be a block of domestic violence, a block of legal protection in the digital world, some games of chance and finally adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u173	Yeah, I'm fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u174	Mr. Chairman. The discussion of the budget is an annual ritual. Last year, I was here, too. When I remember the vote of that moment, optimism prevailed. That also had a bit to do with the period of the year. Christmas was at the door and we were going to have a nice year. The Songfestival would take place in Rotterdam and we would play the European Championship with a competition in Amsterdam. For the real sports enthusiast I don't see Mr Van Nispen moving immediately. We had the Olympic Games on the agenda. After two full years it was also a bit of the moment in the term of office that the time of the meters had arrived. We knew what we wanted and we were realizing our plans. There were concrete arrangements to deal with the financial problems and delays in the justice system. We were trying to bring justice closer to people. Punish and protect the Law, an important big law in this period, had just been adopted by a broad majority in your Chamber. The Netherlands became safer. These are all things that I'm gonna think about later. But then all of a sudden, in March, everything changed. You could say that "protection" suddenly got quite a different meaning. Of course, protection is always a priority for the Justice Department. We are talking about protection against injustice and crime, but also about legal protection in the more classical sense of the word. But it was now suddenly about protection against an unknown virus, which was immediately determined to be dangerous and contagious. The first thoughts then go out to your family and to your loved ones. You're hoping they're healthy and they're gonna stay. And yes, of course, to all the employees in the care. You see the footage and you hear the stories. It soon dawned on the realization that this was also going to be a very crazy year in law. Lawsuits were forced to resist, also to the great sorrow of victims, staff in prisons were concerned about their own security and that of prisoners. Patients were no longer placed in forensic care, which naturally had an effect on their treatment. And for children who urgently needed a reception address, suddenly had to be incredibly lured. No one's ever seen this before. There were no plans for it. It caused a moment of confusion and bewilderment: what kind of bad movie did we all end up in? I consciously say 'for a moment', because soon I also noticed that such a crisis does something very special with all those people who work in the justice chain. Born out of the feeling that this is exactly the moment that we should be there and where we can make a difference. The rule of law must also go crazy in times of crisis, or precisely in times of crisis, when virtually every day's security disappears, because then people have to have something to fall back on. That is the right, that is the rule of law. That is why I would very much like to begin this budget debate with a great compliment to all those people who make the rule of law, day in and day out. Policemen and women, prosecutors, judges, court staff, prison staff, probationers, counsellors, attorneys, youth services and child protection staff, and so on. Their courage, their strength and their improvisation also show the power of justice. That may also mean that despite all the misery that Corona brings, I am standing here again with a healthy dose of optimism. It makes me feel even more urgent to carry out the plans we had and we have. That is why I will begin with my first topic, access to justice. Mr. Chairman. If you have a problem with your neighbors or with your partner, with your boss or with a company, what can you do? Where are you going? Who's gonna help you with that, even if you don't have a lot of money to spend? The fact that people know how to resolve their conflicts and help them is one of the foundations of our rule of law. How we can improve this is the basic question of the renewal of the legal aid we have used. Improving legal aid has been quite a complicated task in recent years. There was a great deal of discussion, including in this Chamber, about exactly where these plans are going and the uncertainties that there are, and of course also about the fees of social lawyers. That discussion was strongly pursued; it is right and proper. For me, the importance of the seeker always comes first: how was he or she best helped and the fastest? I am convinced that with the money we spend in the Netherlands for legal aid, we can really achieve better results: better solutions for people in need and better rates for lawyers who may need to do so. Let me start with the role of the government. When we talk about preventing conflicts at an early stage, as a government, we must also dare to put our hands into our own hands. Many of the procedures people use with an addition are directed against that government. Sometimes that can't be avoided. Take criminal law, for example: that's the way it's decorated. But not all these procedures are necessary, especially when you look at administrative law. With informal handling and more customization, we can avoid unnecessary procedures in administrative law and people can move on faster with their lives. Mr. Chairman. Frankly, this is going in the right direction, contrary to what Mr Van Nispen is saying. By now, more than 10% fewer additions to administrative law have been issued in 2019 compared to 2017. This has already achieved the initial objective of the programme, well before the time for which we set ourselves this objective. Less people in the last year needed a lawyer in their contact with the government. That's good news. I said that we should not leave it at that, and that we should do something about it, because anything we gain from it can be used for better fees for lawyers. Mr. Chairman. Not much has been said about the content of the programme. Maybe that's okay. I think that many of the improvements in terms of strengthening the first line, online services and low-threshold legal entry points do not call for a lot of political discussion at all. I think we all agree on that. As far as the development of legal aid packages is concerned, I know the critical eye of a number of groups here, but we have now just begun, together with the NSA, to develop some of those packages in the area of divorce and labour disputes. In that respect, we really make more meters together than a year or two or three ago. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go see the people who take care of legal aid. When specialists are needed, they are lawyers. First of all, I would like to know about the social lawyer's fees, because several members of your Chamber had questions about this, including the spokesperson of the SP, GroenLinks, D66 and DENK. Mr Van Nispen gave me yesterday at the end of the afternoon a black book on social law with lawyers' stories. I read that, like he asked me to. I fully agree with him that social lawyers have a difficult profession, but also practice a beautiful and important profession with great social value as an important part of our rule of law. I understand that lawyers think they're underpaid, but at the same time they don't want to leave their clients in the cold. I also agree with that, because I also believe that the fees are now lagging behind the work done. That is why I am committed to better remuneration for lawyers and, by the way, for mediators, anyone who gets additions. That is actually one of the foundations of the renewal of the system. With the harvest of the measures we are currently taking, the latest calculations also show that an increase in the average hourly rate of 10% to 20% is still feasible compared to the average hourly rate as calculated by the Van der Meer Committee. What, in my opinion, helps is that we have said: if that is what is on the horizon, should we keep the lawyer waiting so long? This was discussed in detail last year. In fact, we said shortly after the budget that we would like to make a move there. At that time, we allocated EUR 70 million to provide a financial bridge for this year, but also for the coming year, which increased tariffs by more than 10% in these years. Mr. Chairman. I also share the conclusion of the Van der Meer Committee that the social lawyer's fees are the ones that are most lagging behind, particularly in the field of personal and family law. That is also why I give priority to family law in the context of the renewal of the system, particularly in the area of divorces, where an addition can be made. In addition, we have recently proclaimed an arrangement to be able to do something in the age structure of the lawyer's file by providing a concession in the training of young lawyers. Mr. Chairman. The question was asked about this year's budget exhaustion, because the starting point for many of the legal aid reforms is to try to do so as much as possible in the square of money available for legal aid, over 400 million. We should not be ashamed of this, even in comparison with many countries around us. We've even done something on top of that; that's the 70 million. We'll see if we can do it in there. This also means that if we manage to solve more problems at the front and reduce the number of additions, there will be financial space to do what in compensation. I was asked whether there was under-exhaustment in the current year, in 2020. I think so. Of course, we haven't finished the year yet, so I think we should wait for that to happen, but as in previous years, we see that, after years of shortages of legal aid, there is now a small surplus. I would very much like to give you a little more insight into the progress report I will send you by Christmas. Are those occasional windfalls? Part of it, I guess. That's what we've seen in the past few years. Or are you slowly but surely also seeing something of a structural component, with which you can do something in the rates of the lawyer? If you ask me where that is most needed, I'll actually get back to personal and family law. It would be nice if we could take a little step there. Mr. Chairman. The amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van den Berge to item No. 10 is about the point rate for the social lawyer. The applicants would like to add 180 million. I'm afraid I have to advise against that. The cabinet has said that it really wants to reform legal aid as much as possible within the existing financial frameworks. I still think we can do that. Secondly, the coverage provided for in this amendment is not sound. This is based on a battle to be done in the Tax Plan, but that Tax Plan has already been approved and the amendment tabled on the limitation of the Innovation Box has not been achieved. As a result, the cover for this amendment will in fact fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u175	Are you done with this part, access to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u176	I still have a few small points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u177	Yes, and then I'm going to see Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u178	Because we have talked about legal aid, but we do more when it comes to access to justice, of course. I refer, for example, to the promotion of mediation, also in response to Mrs Van der Graaf, who asked about the legislative proposal on this issue. We have had a lot of discussions in recent times, and I actually hope that we will succeed in reaching an agreement together with mediation associations. Then that bill for Christmas could go into consultation. And now that Mr Van Nispen is on the interrupting microphone: Registry rights are also, of course, part of the debate on access to justice. I do, however, have a positive reaction to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van den Berge in respect of item No. 8. That's about raising less quickly in the lower step. In fact, they have already provided cover for this in the debate on the reduction of registry fees, so I think it is only right to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Finally, in this block, the neighborhood judge. I am very enthusiastic about that in the Chamber and I am very happy about that. We also come as part of the trial on the basis of the Temporary Experimentation Act in 2021 with an obligation to participate in it. We believe that this will greatly increase the number of cases that can be dealt with by a district judge. Last year we said in the price agreements that we would add some extra money, 1 million extra. But, of course, justice also gets money from the existing budgets for every case he does, as I say to Mr Moorlag. That money from then actually comes on top of that, in order to be able to make some of those layers of innovation. That puts me at the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u179	Mr Van Nispen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u180	I hear a lot of fine words from the Minister, but he has been refusing to do what needs to be done for years, namely to arrange for reasonable compensation for the social lawyer. And the Minister knows that. In doing so, this minister shows himself to be an agile director of the VVD, but actually a very bad guardian of legal protection, as far as I am concerned. We're seeing social attorneys leaving the system right now. We see that law-seekers can hardly find a lawyer who can and will handle their case anymore. But it actually goes much further. The problem is much bigger. This is about the government's counterpower. How important it is, we have seen, among other things, in the scandal surrounding the premium fraud affair. Among other things, a lawyer has done a lot to expose them. We have a great deal to thank for that. The democratic rule of law must therefore be further strengthened. Then why is the Minister working on weakening the government's counterpower?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u181	I understand very well that we are testing the patience of lawyers when we say that we are working towards an improvement, but that this improvement takes time. But that improvement has been made. In the meantime, we have done a number of things in terms of financial bridging. Last year we made an agreement with the NOva that offers some more room in the rates, so that it doesn't just shine at the end of the horizon. When I look at the developments, for example the availability of lawyers, I just see the facts. I am less depressed than Mr Van Nispen. I'm kind of gloomy about charging. It just stays behind, but they're working hard on it. When I look at the numbers of lawyers available, I don't see a massive or worrying decline. The Legal Assistance Council also indicates that there are still enough social lawyers in the system to do the work. The Wolfsen Commission once calculated that you need some 3,750 full-time lawyers to do the job. At the moment there are a small 7,000 registered in the system. When I look at the developments on an annual basis, last year, 700 lawyers were signed out and 500 were added. So there's a very slight decrease. I think the system could have this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u182	I think the Minister also knows that he has half the truths here and that he is framing things. If he doesn't know that, I think that's a problem, too. The lawyers who are registered with the Law of Law also have people who only do a few cases a year. The Wolfsen Committee has advised on the number of lawyers needed for the system, but that is about people who have full-time practice and who are therefore doing 100% subsidised business. That is not the reality, because there are a lot of mixed practices. That's the kind of thing the Minister knows, right? If we have to dismantle half the Minister's truths over and over again, we will never get to the real debate here. The Minister has outlined the theoretical side of the matter here, but I have outlined the practice in the black book, among other things. The practice is that social lawyers leave the system. Of those who have not yet done so, a very large part is on the verge of doing so. This disaster for the rule of law must be averted. This minister doesn't do that. The practice is that someone who has a divorce case should call 35 lawyers and then with any luck find someone who wants to run his case. After all these years, the monkey comes out of the sleeve. Why hasn't the Minister done anything about the Van der Meer Committee's report all these years? We now know the VVD election programme. To keep the system affordable, they simply want to abolish some of the legal aid. Yeah, you'll keep it affordable! Meanwhile, legal aid for ordinary people has been pretty much destroyed if the minister does not intervene now and now provides a reasonable remuneration for those lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u183	The Legal Assistance Board, the body responsible for assessing the availability of sufficient resources, indicates that there is no shortage. I do share Mr Van Nispen's point: if you look at those small 7,000 lawyers who are registered, you will see that some of them have a mixed practice. However, that number is of course many times higher than the calculation Wolfsen made. At the same time, there are social lawyers who have 100% social practice. So I think it's pretty mixed. If I just look at the Legal Assistance Council, it says: no deficit yet! I do see a problem in the construction, the age structure of the legal profession. This is independent of the pricing that is part of the movement that we have now deployed and of the 70 million we have allocated extra for this last year. We see that average age is relatively high. Part of the outflow will soon also take place by people who say at some point: now I am going to enjoy my old age. There's less influx from young growth. But we'll do something about that too. We have a scheme for the coming year to, I believe, adopt 175 new trainees and also provide training costs for them. In other words, we are not sitting still. A lot of work is being done to attract new young people to the profession. I also see that, in the long term, pricing should be improved. That is what the programme is also working hard on at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u184	Then I suggest that you move on, because you have a number of topics and we have another ruler. So I'd like to speed it up a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u185	I just ended up with the neighborhood judge. Actually, that's a nice little bridge to the next block, justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u186	I see Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u187	Yeah, about this block, also about the neighborhood judge, the proximity judge, the peace judge. I would very much like to know from the Minister whether he has a basic attitude to give this a permanent place in Dutch justice. Of course, there are experiments going on. But if we look at the experiences in neighbouring countries and at cases in labour law where disputes committees often resolve labour law cases much more efficiently than the courts, then we don't have to do pilots to find out that water is wet. Does the Minister have the basic position to give the proximity judge a permanent place in our case law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u188	Yeah, let me put it this way: I'm very excited about that. And I also say emotionally: this is interesting and extremely promising. At the same time, I also think that we should give justice the room to try this out and see how it works. What does it mean for the number of cases you're attracted to? Is it also the case that the assumption behind this is that the use of this local judge not only improves access to justice but we see it less quickly, because it often does not come to a judicial decision but the judge ensures that the people themselves, especially in civil conflicts, come out among themselves? Because then you can also justify why a cheaper form of justice, or a little more time in front, pays off, because it can solve many problems in the future. That's policy theory for the time being, which I think is okay with us just checking it out. So yes, I have a positive basic attitude, but at the same time I also like to see if it really works out as much in practice as we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u189	I will suppress my impatience, but I hope it will really be rolled out with speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u190	Sure. We really have a second phase after that first stage, so that means that two models are chosen. This is about the whole of the Netherlands, also with that experimental law and with the duty to participate in it, which means that the number of cases dealt with by a district judge will really increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u191	I have to say that in debates with the Minister for Legal Protection, I often shoot the shoelaces out of my shoes, and they are not even in it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u192	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u193	What always makes me feel a bit itchy is that this minister really wants to bring everything that has to do with disputes between people to commercial parties as soon as possible. Before that, he also left a commercial by Achmea. In practice, we see the Minister saying: I want to commercialise that. We see that these commercial parties have now been flagged back by the judge a number of times because they often want to settle very quickly and that it has sometimes been said by a judge: you actually deprive the person who comes to you of the right to go to court. How does the Minister look at these kinds of accusations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u194	I have no idea what Mr Azarkan is talking about. We are not dealing with legal aid at all in terms of commercialization or marketing. This is a government-funded activity. That's what 400 million is all about. We're not gonna take a dollar off that either. So I really have no idea what Mr Azarkan is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u195	The minister stays away from the big picture. That is that under the guise of better solutions he simply comes up with a tough cut. Van der Meer's report was clear. It said we're 127 million short. When we had a number of debates on this, the Minister then said: you know, it can all be, but I'm just going to study it for a while, think about it for a long time and see how I can do something about it. In practice, we see that the Minister does not want to spend more money within the budgetary framework, because he is convinced that it is enough. He then looks for ways to make that as small as possible. He actually says to people: I don't want you to charge the judiciary with that at all. By using commercial parties who want to settle as much as possible, he deprives citizens of the right to go to court to have something independently tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u196	The Minister. That's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u197	Sorry, I can't make much of this. Mr Azarkan is talking about cuts. Well, then let him tell you how much this cabinet cuts on legal aid. I'd say zero. So I have no idea what Mr Azarkan is talking about. Even when it comes to commercialization, I really have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u198	That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u199	For example, we do the development of legal aid packages together with the social lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u200	I can't get an answer to my question. The minister's acting like he doesn't know. If you're short $127 million and you need something, you can do two things. You can have that group killed. That's what this minister does. This minister comes up with solutions to problems that are not there and does not solve them. If you run out of 127 million, ask a serious committee of inquiry what to do, and then do nothing with it, then you're maintaining it on balance. In practice, 350 people have left the social legal profession. Those are the numbers. The Minister then says: I do not see that; I do not see that there is a shortage at all. He's only in his own world. The practice is that the lawyers just walked away from the negotiations last year. They didn't want to talk to this minister because he only wanted to implement something on his terms. Now he's playing here and pretending he's okay. The practice is that this minister wants to undermine access to justice. That's the practice. He made up all sorts of things for that. The practice is that it violates the fundamental rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u201	I didn't hear a question. I'll fight at all times that we're in the middle of hollowing out here. We want to increase access to justice, by seeing if you can get there sooner and whether problems can't be solved much more in front. A lot of people aren't waiting for a judge or a lawyer at all. They just want a solution to their problem. This can be simpler and faster in certain cases. I think people are very well served by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u202	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u203	That's without prejudice to the fact that, where you can't figure it out, sometimes you need that judge and that lawyer. So they have a place in our new system as well. Mr. Chairman. Then there's justice, the judiciary. Of course, it is independent and of good quality. The court provides legal protection and legal certainty. The Dutch case law is good for it. The European Commission has recently carried out another study. This shows that we are really in the top at European level. It also shows that this is not self-evident; look at a number of countries around us. I'll come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, I can say that it squeaked and cracked in the justice system when I joined as Minister for Legal Protection in 2017. There were considerable financial deficits, digitalisation was on blows, lead times and delays were persistently high, and court proceedings were often seen as expensive, complicated and lengthy. This was also apparent from the visitation report of 2019. That really means something to people. For example, we had considerable delays in the north of the country, where a few hundred family matters were lying on the shelf. That means sometimes you have to wait two or three years for a judge to give you a ruling when you're in a divorce. That's gotta be different. We made good agreements on this last year. Since we made good agreements last year, I also think that the amendment on item No. 11, tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van den Berge, is not necessary. I would advise against this amendment. I understand that more financial space is always fine, but since last year the real financial needs of the judiciary have been addressed and we have, as it were, made good. The case law for this price-fixing period, which is still two years old, should be able to deal with this. Here too, the amendment lacks proper coverage. Then there were questions about the delays and how we deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u204	On the previous point, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u205	Actually, not as an interruption, but as a point of order. The Minister cannot say that the cover is not sound. It can't be. That cover is sound. It's about political choices. You can also make other political choices. The Chamber could also have decided to support the amendment we tabled to the Tax Plan. Then it was a sound cover. So the Minister can't say that it's not proper coverage. I want the Minister to leave that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u206	I'm gonna drop the qualifying. The point is that the Tax Plan has now been adopted and that the coverage provided for in this amendment is based on a tax plan that does not include this part. That does not, in fact, provide cover for this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u207	Mr. Azarkan. There you are again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u208	Yeah, it's almost a hobby to stand here. I'm back. Is the Minister going to say anything about a criminal decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u209	I'm about to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u210	Okay, then we'll wait and see. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u211	Last year we agreed on catching up and improving the lead times. And then came corona. Perhaps it is good to zoom in on that, because of course the effects on the judiciary are enormous. You know the stories. At the beginning of the corona crisis, a large part of the sessions did not go through. This has led to delays in the criminal justice chain. But fortunately everyone saw the urgency in criminal law as well. With a broad and ambitious chain plan, we have worked together with these delays. We have increased capacity by allowing the use of former judges. In the meantime, 50 former judges, who would otherwise have retired, are working. In addition, there has been a critical review of the types of cases. Where should they be removed? This means that cases that might otherwise have been on the role of the multiple chamber, for which you need three judges, have been transferred to the police judge, where you only need one judge. Of course, that saves a lot, because then you can take off more. And the D.A.'s gonna take more cases with a criminal order, which might otherwise have had to be done by the police judge. New ways of working have also been introduced, including video connections and telehearsals. We have also earmarked funds for this approach: 60 million in 2020 and 40 million in 2021. It was asked whether we now see the effects of this package of measures. I note that we are running into the corona stocks of justice more quickly than expected. At the beginning of the summer there were about 14,000 extra crime cases in court, at the beginning of September there were about 11,000. And if that development continues, then the prognosis is that it should be possible to reduce that number to a few thousand by the end of the year. At the beginning of 2021 I will inform you in more detail about the results, but I think this is really worth a big compliment to all those people who work in court incredibly hard to overcome the corona disadvantages. It also strengthens me in the thought and in the hope, as we also informed your Chamber in July, that we really need to be able to deal with these corona delays in justice by the end of next year. I would like to say immediately that part of the justice system goes back to execution. With DJI and the parole board, there are still some challenges. At the same time, the case law is still fully committed to eliminating the regular backlogs. In fact, we are making a double stroke: last year's agreements are still in progress and we are working away with the delays caused by corona that came up this year. We're both gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u212	I see you standing, Mr. Azarkan, but I want the Minister to finish this first, with all the questions that have been asked about it. Are you ready, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u213	I'm done with the rule of law and the rule of law. Then I'm going to Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u214	You were talking about justice. That piece's ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u215	Yes, except that questions have been asked by Mr Grothuizen about the case law in Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u216	Are all the questions relating to that ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u217	I have had the questions about the Dutch part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u218	But first the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u219	Then I move on to international affairs and move from the Dutch judiciary to those of other countries in Europe, specifically Poland and Hungary. I understand very well that Mr Groothuizen is asking questions about this. You could say that the Polish rule of law is also our rule of law. After all, we work in Europe on the basis of mutual trust and the mutual recognition of judgments. We're keeping a very close eye on what's going on there. Our concerns are unabated. In fact, they're increasing. Now it is true that, in the tradition of European cooperation, we are also looking at how to get out of it in a good way. That starts with a conversation, a dialogue. Threatening language and sanctions do not always have an immediate positive effect. In fact, I sometimes get the impression that, like Mr Groothuizen in Poland, it can sometimes be counterproductive. Sustainable change must eventually come from there. That does not mean, of course, that we are reclining, quite the contrary. The other Member States and the EU institutions also have a responsibility to make clear what they stand for, namely for freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. That means, for me, making good use of the international instruments, such as the EU Treaty, but also of the discussions in the JHA Council next week, that is to say, taking part in the European Court of Justice's legal proceedings, often triggered by the Commission, but where we can join in the Netherlands, which we also do with other countries. Secondly, the sound of principles of the democratic rule of law is always heard and it is made up of many voices, that is, by making a block as wide as possible. For me, it is important to show colleagues in Poland and Romania that it is not a single country that stands for it, but a broad front. The Netherlands will continue to work for an EU in which these basic principles are also maintained. We see that coming back, too. Look, for example, at the stalemate in which the European Council is currently faced by the veto of Poland and Hungary on the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery Fund. The agreements made about the rule of law are really essential for the Netherlands. It was a rather short conversation between the prime ministers, because the ball is now just in Poland and Hungary. It's important that we leave it there for a while. The most important thing now is to give full support to the Presidency in order to maintain this mechanism. This is really important for the Netherlands. As regards whether the Netherlands, as an individual Member State, should start a case with the Court of Justice on the basis of Article 259 of the EU Working Convention, I am not immediately convinced of the added value. One of the considerations is that this instrument is rarely used, especially when a specific interest of a Member State is affected. So when the public interest is affected, the task lies primarily with the Commission. If we, as the Netherlands, were to take such a step, we would say implicitly that the Commission, as guardian of the EU Treaty, is not doing its job well. And that is not in my view at the moment. In addition, it is also true that it is not a sign of force if the Netherlands would do something like this on its own. Because the implicit signal that could be based on that is that it is said: apparently the Netherlands is alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u220	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u221	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u222	I shall go first to Mr Azarkan and then to Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Buitenweg. Mr. Azarkan, I see you've changed places at the center of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u223	You have me every time, Mr. Chairman, sharp of you. In the last block, before we went to Poland, the minister talked about getting rid of the stock. He talked about more punishments. We, of course, made the exception in 2008 that not only the judge, but also the prosecutor, through a public prosecutor's office, can impose a penalty. This was evaluated in 2008 or 2009. It showed that the judge still imposed a lower sentence on people who objected in four out of ten cases. How do we ensure that we maintain that quality there? Because the practice is different now, because I see that on the Internet too, many people say: you have to object by default in the case of a criminal decision by the Public Prosecutor. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u224	First of all, the D.A. has taken that recommendation to heart. I believe that my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, has had several debates with your Chamber on this matter. That also shows improvement. Two. We have said that this movement also involves improving legal protection. So we've made a move in the area of legal aid. That means that anyone who gets an OM can also have a free conversation with a lawyer about what that means, for example, what the consequences are for your criminal record. Of course, there is always the possibility of resisting. So you don't have to agree to a D.A. decision; you can still go to the police judge. Let us also be honest: if it becomes too easy or if people who are presented with an OM decision have the idea that they benefit from going to court, then of course we do very little with eliminating those delays. So in the end, the Public Prosecutor's Office will also benefit from simply putting forward real OM decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u225	Mr. Groothuizen. No, the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u226	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. About Poland. When I was there, I spoke to people who said: 'The EU was a dream for us. We joined it, and that was actually getting away from the Soviet Union and the terror of the one-party state. That dream is now in danger of falling apart." I asked the Minister: shouldn't we do more? Do it, that's what it's all about. My question to the Minister is: are we really doing enough? In practice, are we doing something that actually makes a difference, or should we conclude in a few years' time that we have seen too much about each other in our hands how things are going to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u227	This is addressed in all the European discussions that my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus and I are having. I've been to Poland, too. I can recommend that to anyone. On paper, it looks serious, but when you get there and you talk to the people involved, you're terrified. I just happened to talk to the Minister of Justice there, Ziobro. He never attends meetings in Brussels, by the way. But in that respect it was enlightening to have the conversation with him once too, because I myself had the impression that he might hide what he was doing. To be honest, however, there was simply an agenda in which it was said: we are going to make a number of these changes, with the aim of clearing the place from the communist influences that would still exist in the justice system. I think he used some of those terms; that also happened in public. Your question was: do we do enough about it? Yeah, we don't miss a chance. The agreements concerning the Recovery Fund and the Multiannual Financial Framework now contain a rule-of-law mechanism, thanks to the Netherlands; by the way, with broad support of a number of other countries. The list of infringement proceedings is now quite long. The Netherlands joins almost all these infringement proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u228	I would like to make a comment. The answers must be brief. You're still on the first subject. The Members of Parliament must be brief, but so must the directors. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u229	Yes. Almost every JHA Council has the mechanism in the Financial Framework, and the cases that run at the European Court. The only point is that we cannot change the Polish law. It calls for pressure on the Polish authorities and on Polish politics to make this movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u230	I hear a lot of different things, I must say. At the beginning, the Minister said that it is mainly a matter for the people there. Then there's some pressure put on it by D66, and then there's some more fire. I would say, above all, hold on to that, and don't be as shabby as at the beginning. The Minister now also says that they do say that it is also about clearing the case law. Then it's not just a case for there, it's a case for us as well. Minister Van Engelshoven recently said, I think a few weeks ago, in a debate: perhaps we should think about such a leading group of Member States; I am going to discuss this in the cabinet. Now I hope for a small explanation of what exactly has been the consideration following this conversation which, I presume, has actually taken place. The Minister now sees such a leading group primarily as undermining the strength of the European Commission; at least, it seems. But you can also see it as a reinforcement that we not only let the Commission take the coals out of the fire, but that we make it clear on several fronts that this is an issue for all of us. Then we can also see how we can work together with Member States, for example in Spain and Italy, to make it clear that this is a joint thing. I would like the possibility to be actively examined by this Minister for Legal Protection, including European legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u231	What I wanted to say with 'finally it has to be done there' is not that we do not interfere with it and do not devote all the resources. Only, this is Polish legislation, and ultimately it can only be changed in Poland. We are putting maximum pressure on the Polish authorities to make that move. My point is that I find it more effective and that it is better to stand against a single debt instrument, or if you take Hungary two debt instruments, instead of part of the Member States. For example, it includes the Foreign Minister, who regularly discusses this in the RAZ, and who keeps telling us this when it comes to the Article 7 procedure, which is also under way. For the moment, we have the impression that the Commission is using all the possibilities available to it, the Article 7 procedure, the infringement procedures through the Court and now the rule of law mechanism in the Financial Framework, to maximise the pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u232	Okay, then I suggest you move on and move on a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u233	Mr. Chairman. I come to everything about safety, prevention, recidivism and that sort of thing. Our criminal law is based on the trinity: as much prevention as possible, prevention; where missteps are made, punishment; and then try to prevent repetition, fight recidivism. As far as penalties are concerned, we have worked hard in recent years to improve the application of sanctions and to make them work for a safer Netherlands. That is what we have done with laws and rules and the allocation of people and resources. In the area of the fight against recidivism, we have, among other things, made a major battle with the Law on punishing and protecting. This includes not only the retribution element, with the shortening of conditional release, but also more instruments to ensure at the back that behaviour is changed and that this is more important when granting leave. We also better prepare prisoners for their return to society. That's good for the recidivism rates. Besides, we're also looking at who's actually coming in. Is there, for example, a problem of addiction or slightly intellectual limitations? Mrs Yeşilgöz asked for that. A screening tool has been developed for this, the Screener for intelligence and mild intellectual impairment (SCIL), and various agencies such as the Children's Protection Board, Halt, DJI and probation are currently in place. If this indicates that there is a slight intellectual limitation, this will be taken into account in the follow-up. Relapse and prevention is actually where the circle comes together. Because especially when you look at young people who we get into criminal law, we try to get them back on the right track as best we can and where we find young people to prevent them from slipping, or that brothers and sisters slipping off. My colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, has already said a few things about prevention in the context of undermining. I think that's good. Various investigations are also being carried out into the mechanisms of how these types of boys often end up in organised crime, so that you can do more targeted interventions. Also in the context of the broader approach to youth crime, we are looking at whether we can no longer rely on a family approach, rather than an individual approach. Criminal justice is often individually targeted, but you take out the eldest brother because it has done something terrible and then you find two or three younger brothers in the same family, who you hope will not follow the example of their older brother. Then it can help to have a better point of contact with parents, to appeal to them more on their responsibility. We are currently looking at a legal toolbox to make parents more subject to their responsibilities where necessary, and we are looking specifically at examples in the UK in this area. I hope to let you know more in the coming months if that is likely to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u234	A large number of questions were answered in writing. So I would ask you not to think about that again, because that is a waste of time. So no doubles and only answers to those questions that have not been answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u235	All questions were answered in writing. So if you want, I'll quit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u236	No, colleagues have asked other questions about their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u237	All questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u238	So you're actually reading the written questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u239	No, we answer all the questions that have been asked in writing, so that we can never be accused of not answering a question. But we usually pick out the subjects...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u240	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u241	... of which we feel that several questions have been asked about this and that they may also ask for an oral explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u242	Of course it is intended that all questions should be answered, but that there should be no duplication. Because, knowing colleagues, they also know which questions are answered and which are not answered. I'm sure they'll come back to that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u243	I've got three short cubes left. There's a couple of doubles in there. If there's no need for interruptions, I'm going through them very quickly. Questions have been asked, for example, about domestic violence and the adequacy of the instruments. I would just like to refer to the written answers you have received in this area and to the explorations we are doing, including the failure to recognise marriages that have been concluded abroad, after which people come to the Netherlands as soon as they are of age. We are looking at how we cannot then recognise that. In fact, that is the little debate that took place yesterday between Mrs Becker and Mr Markuszower. That is what we are working on. Then legal protection in the digital world. Questions have been asked about the low-threshold facility. The WODC investigation was sent to your room last week. You can expect a letter on this in spring. That's the rules. Ethnicity and nationality have already been mentioned. Of course, we also have everything around the GDPR. Mr. Chairman. Then there's supervision. Questions on the AP have all been answered in writing. I would like to advise against the amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Buitenweg to grant an additional 9 million. We have already allocated additional funds, including in the letter I sent you last week. The AP is one of the best funded authorities in Europe. The budget has tripled in recent years. When I look at the report, I think it is particularly important that the basics are properly put in place before we continue to grow. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go on to the games of chance. That is a great hobby of members Van Toorenburg and Van der Graaf. I hear "greater" here, but they won't thank you for that. Next year, the Remote Gambling Act will enter into force, which focuses precisely on combating illegal Internet gambling, to maintain it more firmly and to increase its efforts on prevention. These are important public objectives. Mrs. Van der Graaf asked: can you give the figures on gambling addiction? I'd love to. In the written reply we also indicate exactly how this can be done. If the legislation of VWS comes through, but you as a Chamber also have a role in this matter, I expect to be able to do so in the course of next year. So that's what I'm telling you. Then the enforcement of lockboxes. That is what is happening, I say in the direction of Mrs Van Toorenburg. This has also led to a number of enforcement pathways, after which at least two manufacturers have made adjustments. Towards the popular game FIFA is now imposed a penalty. Then there are the questions about the concept of market vision. I think it's mainly about the lotteries. What is leading me is the letter I sent you last year. We believe it is important to secure a number of public values. It is not only the classic interests that play a role in gambling policy, such as combating illegality and preventing addiction, but also the maintenance of the payments made from a number of lotteries towards charities, for example. Mr. Chairman. Finally, adoption. Mr. Bishop asked about the support of a number of organizations and of those who were adopted in the search for their roots. That is a theme that is very close to my heart. I said: let us allocate additional financial resources to this in order to provide a range of support that is very much geared to the question of how we can support as many people as possible with the money we have available. Then I focus on the infrastructure, namely a good question mark and a good organisation that can support it. As soon as you go into supporting individual trips or individual searches, that budget is also very quickly lost. So we are committed to the broadest possible support. Mr Bisschop and Mr Van Nispen asked a very specific question about the limitation period. I can very well imagine that it is difficult to accept for those who have to face it. However, it is not for nothing that these twenty years are also explicitly mentioned in the law. Over time you can see that it is also just more difficult to check, for a judge but also for us, what has happened. That is why I would like to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u244	Because I'm a little slow Harry, it's gonna take me a while to get up. I am going to ask about the games of chance, but perhaps Mr Van Nispen has a question on this very point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u245	That's right. I had a question about the Minister's last answer. I understand that the Minister says: over time, it is increasingly difficult to assess evidence. But if that's the case, it turns out to be the judge. If it is no longer possible to prove that things have gone wrong, that an organisation is not liable, then the judge will not assign it either. It is a question of balancing legal certainty for the organisation which may have committed fraud or wrongdoing against the one adopted who may have a case where something went wrong. Then for me, the balance still goes to the adopted one who was a baby at the time of adoption. Then that limitation period starts to run, and when someone turns 18, they have to realize what happened and start a lawsuit. I do not think that this is reasonable, and that is why the proposal, also on behalf of the SGP and the SP: please look at it, let us abolish that limitation period and leave it to the court to assess whether there is any basis for a liability. If the Minister does not want to abolish it, let us at least start that limitation period only when we reach the age of majority. We do that in criminal law, by the way. This is about civil law, but we can make that analogy here. Please look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u246	This is so fried in the law. So it's not a question of: cancel that one-two-three. That really calls for a change in the law. If you're gonna look at that, I think that's wider than just adoption cases. There may have been several things happening in the early years of people they would like to claim at a later age, as soon as they are grown up. So it is also a little more fundamental than just this issue of adoption. I am quite prepared to take a look at that without immediately saying that we are going to do something about it. Because, of course, it's just hard for things like this to get over the table how things turned out. The judge already has the opportunity to judge differently, to say: I think it is in the interests of those concerned that we should not rely on this 20-year limitation period. That may happen if there are several findings on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u247	Let's look at my supposed hobby, which isn't exactly the game of chance. We understand that there has been a concept market vision of the Ksa, which constantly refers to the vision of Bitches. I have to say, the former Secretary of State. I find that disturbing, but it goes on and on. Even when discussions are held with organisations throughout this chain, the vision of the former Secretary of State is always on the table. I just think that's inappropriate, because we didn't say otherwise for nothing. There is also a different line of policy in some areas. So how can we ensure that the Ksa, with all its partners, knows that it is not the vision of a former Secretary of State but the vision of this minister who is here aligned with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u248	You received a letter about that from me last year. That is the policy line of this cabinet, so I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg. That does not mean that everything in that 2011 vision has gone overboard. There are still elements that are still leading in this context. But you can assume from me that the most recent letter is also the guiding framework. Some of the issues that are on the table are, of course, ultimately about things that the Ksa is not about, but which we politically determine here, for example, how to deal with monopolies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u249	Politics hasn't exactly been jubilant about something the Ksa seems to find, namely that there should be as many members as possible. Then I'm thinking, "What do you mean, as many of us as possible?" Are we supposed to bomb the whole of the Netherlands crazy with all these fucking games? In fact, it seems that the profit-making of new entrants is considered to be more important than social contributions. Those are just things that start to stand out all over that chain. Then of course it's gonna be a nasty game, because we were already against those games of chance. On the basis of a new letter, we agreed that something would happen to it, but then every time that poison comes up: as many suppliers as possible, good profit and less payment. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u250	The profit-making of private companies can never be a public objective. The objectives of gambling policy are to prevent illegality, prevent money laundering, prevent addiction and regulate the surrounding market. It is not a government policy objective to ensure that companies can make profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u251	I think you were done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-2.u252	I want to suspend until 1:50 p.m. Then we will proceed with the answer by the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
