ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the VSO Voorhang traffic distribution rule (VVR), Document 31936, No. 723. I would like to welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. I give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have three motions and if time allows another question. So let me start with the motions quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on 3 July 2018, the Minister of IenW promised that, if the European Commission approves the traffic distribution rule (VVR), the VVR would have to go through the national legislative process, including "advice to your Chamber and advice from the Council of State";]] [[noting that there is no longer any mention of veils in the present VVR;]] [[expresses the need for the Minister of LenW to honour this commitment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the traffic distribution rule (VVR) violates the Chamber's majority against autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport, see motion-Laçin c.s. in piece No. 565 (31936) nevertheless allows autonomous growth as a result of strict conditions of the European Commission;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the current traffic distribution rule (VVR);]] [[calls on the Government, in its negotiations with the European Commission, not to agree to a traffic distribution rule (VVR) contrary to a majority of the European Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to permanently cancel the planned expansion of Lelystad Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-744]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-745]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-746]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u3	Let me ask you another question. When this minister took office, she announced that she saw the restoration of public confidence as a key message. She has agreed to apply a veil to a VVR. She has come back from that, in fact, without giving any reason. At some point, the veil was gone. The question is really: how does she think that this way of doing things, so pulling back what you promised earlier and not explaining it properly, is helping to regain that trust? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u5	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has no difficulty in informing the Chamber incomplete or incorrect, ignoring motions adopted and failing to comply with agreements made. The same applies to the Lelystad Airport file. Over and over again, there are reports and calculations that don't add up. There is the Chamber, which clearly states that it does not want autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport, which the Minister himself has confirmed several times, and yet a VVR with autonomous growth. The Minister undertook to refer that VVR to the Chamber before seeking advice from the Council of State. She didn't do that either by making up that it was just the first version, and not the second and third versions. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, that is a really scandalous way of working. I can't find another word for it. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has undertaken to submit the traffic distribution rule (VVR) for Lelystad Airport to the Lower House in accordance with the national legislative process before submitting it to the Council of State;]] [[Whereas the Minister returned to this commitment without coordination and the VVR submitted its opinion to the Council of State without a veil in the Chamber in December 2019;]] [[having regard to the fact that, once again, the Minister has damaged the confidence of the Chamber and its residents;]] [[considers that agreements made with the Chamber should be respected;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the VVR for Lelystad Airport to the House of Representatives and then to seek advice from the Council of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-747]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u6	Finally, Mr President. I can say it again: the extension of Lelystad Airport must certainly not be allowed. I think Corona proved that again. That is why I have also signed Mr Van Raan's motion on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u7	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u8	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is that the Minister has decided not to submit the traffic distribution rule for Lelystad Airport to the Chamber. A firm commitment was swept under the carpet because according to the Minister this is a new version and then the promised participation does not apply. This is not how I deal with the people I know, and I really hope that the Minister does not deal with us in this way either. As far as I am concerned, it says a lot about the Minister that she is so inclined into participation, the democratic process, to allow this airport to continue. After the low-flying routes, climate and nitrogen, Corona is, as far as we're concerned, the next obstacle why we should never get to this airport. Schiphol expects it to take years before the demand for flying returns, if this is ever the case. The assumption of the traffic distribution rule was scarcity, but what if there is not at all? Is the Minister prepared to investigate that? Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Court has declared that autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport is not desirable;]] [[whereas the traffic distribution rule, which was intended to move non-mainport traffic from Schiphol Airport to Lelystad Airport, according to M3 research is operating under the assumption of slot scarcity;]] [[Whereas Schiphol expects that the effects of corona on aviation will not lead to scarcity in the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the effects of corona and the lack of final scarcity on the functioning of the traffic distribution rule,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-748]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u9	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. It takes some getting used to, we have another route in the room. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u10	Mr. Chairman. Many questions and answers have been asked. This consultation was requested in March and now we are discussing it. I think it's good that we discuss it. A lot of questions and answers, too. I would like to stress that the traffic distribution rule for Lelystad Airport to relocate flights was established with the agreement of the VVD. That VVR, as we call it, is a legal rule, which has also been submitted to the European Commission. Last September approval was received from Brussels for the variant that is now also in the pipeline. That approved VVR was also one of the three conditions that we set as a coalition, as a chamber, to open Lelystad. In connection with corona, of course, aviation is now on its way. The opening of Lelystad has also been postponed because of corona and also some additional calculations, and of course because of a nature permit that is needed. But I hope that as soon as the aviation recovers, we can quickly continue filling flights from Lelystad. We are not going through that opening, but soon afterwards. Because, of course, people want to go on vacation. I have a few questions for the Minister. Is it true that this VVR is actually the basis as one of the conditions we have set together for opening Leystad and that that trajectory is also completed at the moment, when we have discussed it here? Secondly, if aviation recovers, how do we ensure that Leystad, precisely because of those holiday flights, will also play the role that we have in mind so that we have room at Schiphol Airport for intercontinental flights? Thirdly, I hope that we will soon be able to celebrate that opening with each other, at least in a subsequent period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u11	Mr Laçin, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u12	A very short question. Does Mr Dijkstra think that the Minister, the cabinet, should comply with agreements made with the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u13	The Minister has to abide by the agreements made in the coalition agreement and has to do with motions and all kinds of statements made by the Chamber, one heavier than the other. It is important that Lelystad Airport is defined as a holiday airport and that the airport is ready; we all know that. We hope that it will be used soon, but yes, corona is now of course throwing soot in the food.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u14	Finally, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u15	That is not the question at all. The question is that this minister said that she would let the VVR go through the national legislative process, so first a veil in the Chamber and then to the Council of State. She didn't do that on her own. Does the VVD consider that this Minister too, all ministers, the Cabinet, should comply with commitments made to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u16	It was known that the first VVR... We had time for that, too. The second VVR didn't go with a front. The Minister will explain in a moment why that is. That's what she said in writing. I think that's a good thing, because we don't have time to waste. The moment Corona is over, when people want to go on holiday again, I want them to be able to leave Lelystad and that possibility is also offered. This VVR makes that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u17	Mrs Kröger, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u18	Mr Dijkstra outlined that the agreements with the Chamber were being violated because there was a hurry...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u19	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u20	That was literally what Mr Dijkstra just said: there was a hurry and therefore the process of participation did not go as agreed with the Chamber. Now there is no such thing, because Mr Benschop clearly states that we will certainly not be able to reach the old level with Schiphol until 2023. Given that there is no rush, does Mr Dijkstra agree with me that we should simply deal with the VVR in the regular procedure, with the veil as it was promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u21	No, because that thing was sent with the agreement of the Chamber, at least with the consent of the VVD. We supported the VVR as it was sent to Brussels. It's also an illusion to think that you can change one letter of that VVR, because then it won't last. I understand that's what you want. You want it destroyed or withdrawn. I'm not; I'm committed to getting flights from Schiphol to Lelystad. That can be done much earlier as far as I am concerned. We need to make that attractive, because this airport is just a welcome place in our national aviation strategy and is also part of the Aviation Note that we are about to discuss with each other. So Lelystad has a role there. Procedures must be followed carefully. That's what happened to this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u22	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u23	I would like to correct Mr Dijkstra. The final VVR was sent to the Chamber after he went to Brussels. So he first went to Brussels and only then shared with the Chamber. We have never talked about this as a chamber. My question to Mr Dijkstra is therefore the following. If there's no rush, as he himself suggests, why don't we do it nicely? Why don't we just ask the Minister to stick to the deal? You also want a reliable minister who follows the procedures neatly, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u24	Sure, but I also want to see Lelystad Airport opened as soon as possible, because that's important. The procedures have been followed neatly. The VVR complies with the rules laid down by the VVD. I can't believe you don't like him. We do. We hope people can fly quickly from Lelystad as soon as the airport opens. As far as I am concerned, I hope that will be in the autumn of 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u25	This is a debate which, of course, we have heard more often in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u27	Mr Dijkstra is, of course, the most in favour of opening airports in the Netherlands. He also rightly points out that it is important that Lelystad serves as a landing airport. Does he also say that it is not possible to give Lelystad that position without a traffic distribution regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u28	As a coalition, we have set three conditions. You were there, too. Let me remind you: an approved environmental impact assessment, an end to the low-fly routes and approval of Brussels for the traffic distribution rule, or market research which shows that there is sufficient enthusiasm. Well, all those things are done. The mood is now a little less because of corona, but hopefully recovers quickly. If you look there, Mr. Paternotte, you'll see that airport all set up there. All you have to do is plug in the coffee maker and deliver fresh croissants and people can enjoy a well-deserved holiday to Southern Europe. We've got to get that done. That also gives room, just at Schiphol Airport, to do the intercontinental traffic. That is a very good mix of holiday flying and focusing the strategic importance on Schiphol. This serves this purpose and that is why we are discussing this with each other, for the umpteenth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u30	Mr. Chairman. Without a working traffic distribution rule, it is not possible to turn Lelystad Airport into an overflow airport. Almost two years ago, the Minister promised to give the Chamber an opportunity to express an opinion on the traffic distribution rule as approved by Brussels. This would go through a wallet at the Chamber and an opinion from the Council of State. In the aviation file, a reliable government that does what it says is the most important thing. That's why I have a motion. There is some nuance with the motions tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan. I'm willing to put them together later, but there is a difference in nuance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, by letter of 3 July 2018, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State undertook that the traffic distribution rule for Schiphol and Lelystad Airport would have to go through the national legislative process, and that this "includes front of your Chamber and advice by the Council of State';]] [[calls on the Government to refer the traffic distribution rule for Schiphol and Lelystad Airport to the Chamber before sending it to the Council of State for advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-749]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u31	Mr. Chairman. It is crazy to talk about the distribution of scarcity between two airports at a time when Schiphol is smaller than we ever thought possible, but we are still holding this VSO. We were stunned when the Minister announced that he would not submit this traffic distribution rule to the Second and First Chambers. It is her authority and her choice, but we had been told at several times as a Chamber that the VVR would be placed before the Chamber. The Minister said: yes, but that was about a previous version of the traffic distribution rule. It's kind of like I'm dating my daughter to go to a party, but she has to come home by midnight. Then when she comes home at 4:00 in the morning, she says: yes, but the party was moved, so it was a completely different party. If she's watching, if she comes home with a story like that, she's gonna have to quarantine for a month. I'm asking the Minister to reflect on this metaphor. Is she willing to hang the VVR after all? In addition, two brief questions. Is the VVR now approved by Brussels fully operational in 2021? In other words, can we use this VVR from the European Commission after 2020? If not, what is the Minister going to do to make that possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Oh, hello, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u33	I've missed you, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u34	It's mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u35	I understand D66 is outraged. You're asking if the Minister would like to put the VVR before the Chamber. I wonder what Mr Paternotte is doing if the answer is not benevolent, if the Minister says she is not going to do so. Then what does D66 do with the motions that have been tabled to put the VVR before the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u36	Motions I always study when I have them in front of me, but it is clear that my question is to the Minister: put this VVR before me. It seems to me that there is plenty of time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u37	Finally, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u38	Does Mr Paternotte think that the Minister should keep the commitments she has made and the commitment she has made before?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u39	In itself that is somewhat the portee of the questions I have just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I see the Minister wants a five-minute suspension to assess the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u41	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to answer the motions and questions in order. I want to try the motions on the pieces Nos. 744, 747 and 749 together, because they aim at the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u43	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u44	No. The minister's just getting started. Do not correct immediately. But you wanted to make a point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u45	Yes, because the first motion is a "spoken" motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u46	Yeah, but he'll see on the same subject. Let me at least take that together, but I shall abstain from judging on the motion in part No. 744.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u47	Mr Laçin really has a point there. I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u48	I will not judge Mr Van Raan on this point, who tabled that motion. On the motions on the items Nos. 747 and 749 and on the questions put by Mr Van Raan in connection with the motion for a resolution 744, which had something to do with regaining confidence, I would just like to mention this whole. In the discussions I have had with your Chamber on the traffic distribution rule, I have, of course, always stressed that Mr Van Raan rightly refers to the fact that I would also like to advocate transparent and careful decision-making. I will take care of that as well, because, as promised, Parliament can weigh all the building blocks relating to Lelystad Airport in full when it comes to amending the Lelystad Airport decision. The VVR is one of the building blocks of that whole. During the submission of the first VVR, there was indeed a mention that some of you also mentioned a voluntary front of the VVR. But the first VVR has been withdrawn and then the usual trajectory of a general measure of governance has been completed. The Chamber was informed of the procedure in between. We've talked extensively about the questions your room has. There has also been a technical briefing on the VVR. For me, it is certain that the VVR is the appropriate instrument to ensure that Schiphol can continue to develop into an airport for networked traffic. I would like to emphasise once again that anything you would ever like to ask or comment on the VVR in the context of the integral journey to the LVB can be done. It's part of the wider front. You can put everything on that, too. I would never want to restrict you in that procedure. Careful decision-making is guaranteed. So I don't see any added value in cutting the VVR separately, and that's how I'm going to read it out. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I'll finish this block and then answer questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u49	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u50	I'll see if I've said anything about this by now. With regard to the Council of State, which is looking at the validity of the legislation, you know that there is a positive opinion from the Council of State. So you can take all that into account in the front suspension procedure. It runs on all parts, because in the past your Chamber has repeatedly indicated its desire to treat it as an integral part. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u51	It's a VAO, or is it a VSO? Then Mr Van Raan. Is it about your motions? Let me get this straight. Then you may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u52	I have two questions, one general question and one specific question. I will ask the specific question first. Is it true, according to the Minister, that at the time when the VVR is at the Council of State and an opinion on it is coming, that it is then finished.............................................................................................................................................................................. That's question one. Question two is a general question. The Minister sketches a general picture of how it went, but does not judge it. The commitment was clear, after all. We'll do a front. It's a VVR and there's a front. She does not go into the question whether the fact, that at the time the VVR changes a bit, the veil with it disappeared unsolicited; nothing else has been told about it until we ourselves began to do so. That doesn't contribute to trust. She's not going into that. I'd like her to do that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u53	Mr Van Raan is right to point out that there has been a change. The first VVR you're talking about has been withdrawn and for good reason. We have indicated the procedure for the second VVR to the Chamber. That's the normal AMvB procedure. Now that I see afterwards what that has meant, it would have been better if we had explicitly mentioned that this meant that there would be no separate veil. That has not happened, but the procedure has been indicated several times. Again, it doesn't really matter. In the front that is wide, you can say everything about the VVR. The VVR cannot be amended. That's what I reported. According to the European Commission, this is it. There's no other VVR to discuss anymore. It's yes or no. That's all there was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u54	Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u55	Finally, I note that on that first point, with a technical explanation, the Minister has changed something: the principle that has been promised to destroy. It's a real shame she doesn't go into that. That won't win her back any confidence. In fact, that's how she feeds the mistrust. Then there is the specific question about the VVR. The VVR has been assessed by the Council of State. The VVR can no longer be discussed. The Minister doesn't say anything about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u56	This can therefore be explicitly discussed. The only thing is that this was the most feasible instrument to distribute traffic. I've reported that before. The VVR can no longer be changed. That is what the European Commission has indicated. The Council of State looks at the quality of legislation. You already have that advice. You can take advantage of that. You can still make all the considerations about the VVR in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u57	I see you standing, Mr. Laçin. You have the opportunity to ask two questions and your motions still need to be dealt with. Isn't it convenient to wait for that first? No? You don't have to. Okay, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u58	The Minister now also discusses the content of the VVR. The VVR has autonomous growth. The Chamber doesn't want that. The VVR is therefore contrary to the wishes of the Chamber. We will take that into account in the integrated debate. What matters today is that this Minister has promised us that the VVR will have a separate front at the Chamber. By playing with versions, the minister claims that the second and third versions had no veils. The Chamber has agreed with you that there will be a veil on the VVR. Period. It wasn't about version one, two or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u59	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u60	The Minister changes this one-handedly. It simply throws the commitment to the Chamber into the trash. That doesn't contribute to trust. That is why I would like to ask the Minister the following. Because of corona, for a very annoying reason, more time has come to talk about this. The opening of Lelystad has been postponed. I ask her to honour her commitment by putting the traffic distribution rule before the Chamber and then going to the Council of State. Time's up. There's no rush anymore. So keep that promise. Give confidence to the people who have been following this file for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u61	I don't see any added value in that. Again, in the broad front for the LVB you can say anything you want to say about the VVR. It simply doesn't add anything. You can put everything in the wide front that we now have. I understand from the Chamber that there will be an integral debate in which everything will be involved. That's exactly what we're committed to. You can involve the VVR and everything that has to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u62	Finally, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u63	I know, of course, in advance what your opinion is. You can say that in all the forthcoming debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u64	No, no, I don't accept that. It's not about my opinion of Lelystad Airport. It is clear, and that is also my view of the VVR. The point is that you made a commitment to the Chamber and threw it into the trash with your own hands. That is what this debate is about as far as I am concerned. What I think of Lelystad Airport and the VVR is clear. That is why I am not talking about the substance of this. I will do that in the full debate. What we have agreed with each other is that, apart from the full debate, the VVR will be placed before the Chamber. That is not what you do now by playing with versions. As far as I am concerned, that is scandalous and unacceptable. This nourishes the mistrust, not just of me, but of a lot of people following the file. That is something we must avoid. You can keep up with this today because there is no more rush. We have time now. The expansion of Lelystad has been postponed. Just do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u65	Mr Laçin described it as playing with versions. That's not how I see it. We made a choice in the first version and informed the Chamber about it. In the second version, also knowing that there was no change to the VVR, we did not see any reason to change it later. Again, your room could involve it in anything. I really don't see the difference...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u66	...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u67	Mr. Laçin, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u68	In several letters I also informed the Chamber about this. Perhaps that could have been more explicit, but that does not de facto affect the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u69	This is a VSO. We really have a whole list of debates. Speaking time is two minutes, but I can see that there is just a debate here. That may be, but then it should just be a debate and not be discussed again through a VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u70	I think we're having this debate in a week and a half or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u71	Mrs Kröger, very briefly and then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u72	The reason why this evokes a lot of emotions is that I think several MPs feel that an agreement has been made on the treatment of a crucial element of the entire Lelystad-Airport dossier and that the Minister has moved. Why did she think it had to be in front of the first version and why did she later say "you don't have to"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u73	That's what I've just given up on. Because we still thought at the first version that you could make changes to that as well. We found out that wasn't the case. It's a yes-or-no story at one of those VVRs. You cannot amend that again in a process, because then you would have to notify again. So this is the VVR in front of you. You can say yes or no to that. The Council of State has looked into it and gave advice on whether it is sufficiently legal. You can involve it in the entire integrated debate about Lelystad Airport and you can ask any question about it and find everything you need in the context of the wide veil.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u74	Finally, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u75	Now the Minister pretends that we as a Chamber only have a role in the democratic process if it is not a yes-no question. The moment it's yes or no, there's no veil. That's not how we work here, is it? If the Minister makes an appointment with us that there is a veil, whether it is a yes-no question or an amendment, that is the deal. Then it's really crazy to say that it couldn't be changed anymore, so I'm taking the democratic participation off?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u76	No, democratic participation is not over, because you can just involve it in the broad front, just to bring everything together at once in the integrated debate you all want to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u77	In my view, the Minister should say to the Chamber: I made a commitment to you under my authority and I came back to that. That can be done, of course, because that is within the competence of the Minister. But I haven't heard her say that. I would like to ask one more question about her reasoning. She says: you can always involve it in the handling of the Airport Decision and the VVR can no longer be changed. The same applies to the previous VVR. If you've gone through a whole notification in Brussels, you can't change it after that. It was already a yes-no question. So exactly the same arguments she now uses not to hang out now were also valid for the previous version, which she would like to read. Again, what has actually changed why you first said "yes, I am giving the Chamber a chance to speak about it" and why you do not want to give that opportunity now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u78	Because we didn't have that image at first. Then it was chosen to volunteer a veil for that. Again, there is no evil intention behind that in any way. We have notified the procedure as it would go several times in letters to your Chamber. There was no longer such a veil, because we have always driven: there will be an integral debate and you can put everything, including the VVR and the environmental impact assessment, in that entire front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u79	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u80	This, of course, was not an answer to my question. The question was what's different now. The minister says "because we didn't have that image at the time." What does she mean by "that image"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u81	That's a question I can't do very much with. At the second VVR, we informed you about how we would do that. We didn't put the front back in there anymore. In retrospect, it might have been clearer for you if we had explicitly said 'no more veils'. I did so earlier, and I don't remember pointing it in the direction of anyone else. We've described the process that that veil is no longer part of. We've shared that with the Chamber several times. Once again, we did so in the realization that you would have an integral debate where all those elements, including the VVR, could be discussed as far and as deeply as you want. Your Chamber has that right, of course. I'm not gonna take anything away from that either. So you can ask anything you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u82	Then I suggest you proceed and assess the rest of the motions. If it's okay, we're gonna vote on that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u83	Yes. For the sake of clarity, on the motion in part No. 744 I do not pronounce judgment. You won't be surprised that I have the motion in part no. 747 and the motion in part No. 749 detachment. Then I come to the motion on part No. 745. He's asking the government not to agree to the VVR. Nor will Mr Van Raan be surprised that I betrayed him. The same applies to the motion in part No. 746, requesting to call off Lelystad Airport. Of course I'm not going to. Then I have the motion in part number. 748 by Mrs Kröger. It invites the government to investigate the effects of corona and the lack of closing scarcity. M3 did indeed analyse the extent to which Lelystad Airport could act as the landing airport of Schiphol Airport and what would then be the percentage of autonomous growth. The demand for air transport and the supply and market behaviour of airlines are, of course, crucial to this. As a result of COOVID-19, you are all right in saying that demand has, of course, fallen temporarily. We are now seeing the first signs of recovery. There is an increase in the number of flight movements from Schiphol Airport. What we do know is that building a position at an airport is crucial for airlines. That in itself doesn't change because of the current corona time. As a result, additional research does not provide new information. I have, of course, already checked that at the airport and at the slot coordinator. I have also heard from Schiphol Group that companies currently operating at Schiphol Airport indicate that they still want to build a position on Lelystad, to have a good foothold there when Lelystad opens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u84	No. I'm sorry, Mrs. Kröger, unless you make your motion... Yeah, but I said two questions could be asked. You guys have chosen to do that in a different way, so I'm gonna go see the minister and thank her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u85	Those were the motions. So I have also advised against this motion. Then I had Mr Dijkstra's question as to whether the VVR is one of the conditions for opening up Lelystad Airport. That is indeed the case. The other building blocks will be on the agenda as well. Mr Paternotte asked whether the VVR could be deployed after 2020. Yes, the European Commission has not laid down any conditions for the year of opening in its decision. The European Commission states in the opening decision that Lelystad airport will be opened to commercial traffic at a certain time. Those were the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u86	I see Mrs Kröger looking a little unhappy. You may ask one question about your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister's answer surprises me, because the whole M3 study, which we have had a rather extensive technical briefing on, meant that there must be a final shortage. Scarce is the base. Then the question is how the aviation market is going to develop. In the aviation bill, the Minister says something about that. It refers to a report which is not yet public. Can the Minister share with the Chamber the market forecasts for aviation, its knowledge and the implications for the traffic distribution rule? Because that is the basis for the entire Lelystad Airport project, as the Minister is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u88	That's just what I was trying to sketch very briefly. No changes are expected, as there are fewer flight movements, but a waver is set due to corona regarding the slots. You don't have to fill up 80% of your slots right now. You keep those rights as long as the corona crisis continues. We also don't see slots being returned or anything like that. You can see that all airlines still retain their historical rights and that they also want to retain them. I also indicated that both the Schiphol Group and the slot coordinator still expect that there will be a shortage of slots, because they want to maintain that position strategically, both at Schiphol Airport and at Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u89	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u90	They're the same spokesmen, I see. Then we go to the VSO Traffic Distribution Rule. Oh, we just had that! I got the wrong guy. You're still sharp. You guys keep a close eye on it. Thank you.
