ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care and, of course, the spokesmen. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're very worried. We are concerned about whether the government will regain control of the virus in time, and about the declining confidence that the measures seem to be in place in society. Many people find the measures unclear. They are concerned about whether the measures are sufficient and whether they will be on time. We believe that this has to do with the fact that it is not clear what exactly is the purpose or strategy of the cabinet at the moment. During the summer period, when the number of infections increased, we have always heard the cabinet express concerns about this increase. But it was always said: yes, we are worried, because things are not going well and the number of infections is getting worse, but fortunately things are still going well in the hospitals; there is nothing going on. The fraction of the SP doesn't think that's right. After all, we learned from the first wave that at the moment when it goes wrong in hospitals, we are already too late. Then the virus is already ahead of us, we're chasing the facts and we've lost the grip on the virus. That's where we stand now. That is why the additional measures are needed. We ask the cabinet if it can make it clear exactly what it is going on. Does it send in such a way that, at the moment the virus gets on something, maximum effort is made to reduce it? This could mean that measures are already being taken at an earlier stage when the number of infections is increasing. We would like to put that question here today. These may be less violent or less far-reaching measures, but at the time you take them earlier, you might be better off pushing the virus back. Then you can possibly avoid larger, more intense national measures as we now have to take them again. We'd like to know from the Cabinet how it looks at that. In addition, we see that the cabinet constantly shifts its responsibilities: then again to mayors, then to the security regions and then to healthcare providers. We're not okay with that. We would therefore like to propose an alternative where we no longer do so and where we take joint responsibility for the measures, the cabinet first. We must also make it clear to the whole of the Netherlands how it is going to look. So you could think that a kind of scheme is being made in which you say: for this number of infections measure x is needed, for a little more infections measures x and y are needed and for more infections x, y and z are needed. This is already happening in other countries. We'll ask the cabinet how it looks at that. Hopefully we will be able to avoid what is a bit of the situation: national advice is given, local advice is given and then we will discuss with each other throughout the Netherlands whether or not we are going to follow that advice. We simply don't have that time. We can't destroy this virus. All we can do is smash this virus. We'll have to do that together, as the Cabinet keeps saying. But we don't see the Cabinet doing it together. Above all, we see the cabinet shrugging off its responsibilities. The mask is exemplary as far as we are concerned. We don't think you can leave that to the shopkeepers at all. We can't ask them to do that. Shopkeepers aren't boas. Let's not do that. Another measure I would like to highlight is one that has been proposed by the OMT, but which we understand will not be taken over by the cabinet. Those are protective devices for our caregivers in the nursing homes. We have been asking for this since the beginning of this crisis. The latest advice from the OMT says: set up protective equipment for all healthcare professionals in the nursing homes throughout the Netherlands. But the cabinet refuses. It's blocking that. We want to know why. We think, even if you have a picture of what happened during the first wave in the nursing homes, that this is taking a big risk. We don't want to take that. So I want to know from the cabinet why it doesn't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	I hear Mrs Marijnissen say: do not leave the masks to the shopkeepers, as has now been planned. Then how would Mrs Marijnissen like it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	We do not think it will work as it is now, leaving it to the shopkeepers, simply because you cannot ask shopkeepers to do so. You're actually asking for an extra threshold to get into your business, even though you have to fight to keep your head above water. We would like to see it as I was trying to say: it must be clearer what the number of infections is and what measures are needed. As far as we are concerned, a mask could be one of the measures contained in such a scheme. This prevents discussions like "that store does and that store doesn't work" and "that municipality does and that municipality doesn't work." We believe that we should have this discussion together. We must agree together: if the number of infections is so high, then we think it is important that these and those measures are taken. And such a measure is, for example, a mouth cap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	It's fine to have that discussion. I'm just trying to make it clear, not to catch anyone, but just to see what most parties in the Chamber want today. Would you like it to be an advice to do it nationwide? Inside, outside, mandatory, with a penalty? I just want to see what a majority is for today, to see if we can provide that clarity, not necessarily in the road map for later, but for now, in the current state of affairs. If we say that we don't leave it to the shopkeepers now, what do we do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	The tricky thing is, of course, that we constantly have that discussion when we say that we do not want to choose such a schedule. Today it's about a mouth cap; tomorrow it's about something else. So we shouldn't want that. But today we have the discussion about the mouth cap. We think that more and more experts are saying: that mouth cover is indeed an addition. So we do not think it is wise to choose not to do so now. We think you should. But you shouldn't do that the way the cabinet does it. Because then it is just an advice and it shifts the responsibilities once again to those poor shopkeepers, who are already having a hard time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	Fine! It is clear to me that Mrs Marijnissen does not want it as the cabinet has proposed it. But I'm just asking, how? I'm not trying to corner someone. We want clarity today. I've heard parties say more widely, including in the media, that they don't want it as it is now where shopkeepers have to choose. They want it wider. And then I just have some simple questions. Do we want it inside or outside? Do we want it when you walk to your place? Should it be legally mandatory or should it be an opinion? Should there be a fine on it? I will also deal with this myself in my own contribution. But then today, at the end of the debate, we can at least see clearly what Parliament and the parties in Parliament stand for in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	It has to be done in those places, but well, I follow the experts in it; that seems to me as a politician wisely in the public, public space where you cannot observe the 1.5 meters. This is said by more and more experts, contrary to what RIVM and the cabinet say, that a mouth cover can have added value. In those places. Indeed, today we are proposing that you could make this region dependent if you did opt for such a clear schedule. Then you avoid that in Drenthe, where the infections may still be huge, everything has to be done. And then you also avoid that discussion and ambiguity that we have all the time. There is now an ongoing debate on opinions that should or should not be followed up. Then we have a clear line: where in public space 1.5 meters is not possible, you wear a mouth cap in the places where it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	In fact, Mrs Marijnissen is arguing for a schedule as Ireland has done. It also asks that question for the future. However, I have also heard Mrs Marijnissen, the spokesperson for the SP, say that these masks should not only be used in large cities, but that it should be clear and the advice should apply to the whole country, because it is now rising so high all over the country. Is that what she is advocating now, regardless of the discussion about what to put in such a schedule in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	Exactly. I'm afraid that's where we are now. But bear in mind that we want to make today's plea to avoid this in the future, and to create more clarity about the measures and to stop shifting responsibilities. We think that's very important. But given where we are now, the grip on the virus is gone, and it is running wildly out of claws, we do think that this is a necessary step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yes, also because of the lack of clarity when you do it in one region and not in another. Almost everything is now at least orange, you say. In all regions, there is a need to follow the same line as regards the advice to wear a mouth cap in indoor areas. Does Mrs Marijnissen also want a legal amendment to impose fines on them, or does she have any confidence that they will do so massively as soon as there is a clear opinion? We have to do it together anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	I think it can be extremely helpful if the Dutch are clear on what the goal is, so if it is clear why we are doing it. You do not need to shield with fines, enforcement and similar measures. It is much more important that there is clarity. It must be clear what is expected of the people. It must also be clear what the objective is. I really want to make this plea today. Otherwise, we will end up in a debate about mouth caps all day long. The experts say, "Just do it now, because it contributes something." That's right. It contributes, but it is absolutely not the solution. We face a very big challenge, namely as soon as possible that virus gets back under control. It's gonna take a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mrs Marijnissen rightly calls for much more predictability in the timing of action. We've already asked the cabinet about Ireland's schedule. I have tabled a motion calling for a roadmap. By alert phase, you will show which measures are being implemented. It is also indicated when the scale can be scaled again. I was just triggered by Mrs Marijnissen's remark that the cabinet should always take the lead in this. Does this leave the regional approach and the responsibility of mayors? I would very much like to see regions where things are going well be able to scale down at some point so that freedom can increase there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you for Mr Jetten's question. It gives me some space to say something about this. I fully agree with him. However, that did not fit in with my five minutes' speaking time. Indeed, the advantage of such a scheme and a roadmap is that it is clear when what measures are needed. Another major advantage is that it is also clear when measures are no longer needed when they can be scaled down again. I think you're preventing responsibilities from being shifted. You can make national agreements, but you can lay the responsibility for the execution locally. You do not get the confusion that in one region the mayor x decides and in the other region with the same circumstances the mayor y decides. No one in the Netherlands understands this confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	We are of the same opinion as the SP on the duty of mouth cover in public indoor areas. I can imagine this having an impact on shop staff, for example. I think we're gonna need some customization there. We also have splash screens and the like. Does the SP see that there is room to do more than the mandatory mouth cap?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	Absolutely. I also hope that we can look at that. You're already asking a lot of shop staff. You hear and read in the newspaper they're all dealing with. When you talk to people, you hear that some people have fun with the rules. Our shopkeepers are sometimes called names. That's incredible and antisocial. If you have to wear a mouth cap all day, that's very spicy. I really think we should see how we can organize that safely for our shopkeepers. If there are alternatives, such as a splash screen, there are possibilities. People can breathe properly and do their job easier. I absolutely think we should look at that. If it's possible, we really should take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. The tests, I'd like to talk about that today anyway. We see that whole school classes are at home because it takes too long for the teacher to be tested. We see employees from companies who have to be quarantined for days, but not tested because they have no complaints. It's costing society money now, every day. That is why we ask the cabinet when the tests will be put in order. We also ask the Cabinet to take specific action on the rapid tests. We see across Europe that countries buy fast tests. That can certainly be a solution, especially for the nursing homes where people are sometimes four or five days out of rotation. Can the cabinet tell us what's going on? What exactly does it expect at this point? Mr. Chairman. Finally, our caregivers. We've talked a lot about them in the last few months. And the second wave, which we've also talked about a lot, that's what we're in the middle of right now. The whole of the Netherlands is looking again at our caregivers. They'll have to stand there again, even if they indicate they're not ready. They will have to stand there and they will have to do it. The whole of the Netherlands is looking at our carers, but our carers are looking at us. I'd like to appeal to the Cabinet: give our caregivers the appreciation they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr. Chairman. We've come at a dangerous time in the corona crisis. The question is: can we turn the tide, or are we heading for a long lockdown? And behind that word "lockdown" lies the loss of thousands of lives and the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. The facts don't look good. The number of infections is increasing, the number of hospitalizations is increasing. More than 150 nursing homes have been visited. Furthermore, there is the problem that our protective equipment, testing and source and contact research are actually not working or are no longer functioning satisfactorily. We must also note that we have wasted valuable time in the summer and since the summer. And please don't let "too little" and "too late" be the final judgment on this cabinet's crisis approach. Now there is a new package of measures. I want to be clear about this: we support these measures. In fact, I call on everyone to stick to these measures and to contribute. And at the same time, I have to say quite honestly that I'm holding my heart. I wonder if the cabinet is not taking a gamble by putting together a package that is intended to deal precisely with the reduction of these infections. I think that is a dangerous prospect. I think the problems are bigger and that you should actually do more more now to protect health, but also to protect the economy. For I think that the Cabinet should recognise that with these measures, the chance of relaxation in three weeks' time is actually zero, whereas that is the perspective offered to entrepreneurs. Look at what's happening. I spoke to employees at Amphia Hospital in Breda on Monday, who had that first wave. One of them was literally filling up when I asked, "How are you?" The image of a room full of people who were on their belly on the ventilator... She said: we don't want to do that anymore, we don't want to do that anymore, and we can't do that again. Another said, "I'm gonna have to abandon my patients again to work in a cohort department." They're patients with cancer, patients with heart problems who are in danger. So for those people too, we need to do things more and faster now. And now when you talk to teachers, you hear they see that sometimes in poorly ventilated schools teenagers crawl down the hallway. So we will also have to do more to help those schools to keep it safe. I am not saying that we should close the schools; I support keeping the schools open, but we must do more. For example, there should be national guidelines on how to deal with contamination. A national directive on how, for example, to reduce the risk of contagion with mouth caps in the corridors at the time of trade. And when you talk to the staff of the nursing homes and home care, who have already experienced what it felt like to have to do their work unprotected, you hear them screaming to be able to do their job with protective equipment. They want that to protect themselves, but perhaps even more to protect their clients and patients. The OMT advises you to do that now. It is then incomprehensible that the cabinet does not now take over. After the lessons we have to learn from spring, you can't take another such risk with those employees and with those patients. And again, more than 150 nursing homes have already been visited. And think of all those employees from the supermarkets who've been working all this time. As you know, they did not receive a bonus; it went to the shareholders. It is therefore also irresponsible to say: let them now maintain or enforce a mask. So make clear, national directives with an obligation to wear a mask in shops where the 1.5 meter distance cannot be kept, not because it is the solution, but because it contributes and because we have an interest in doing as much as possible now to reduce the number of infections quickly. That's what we need to learn from how this horrible virus works. I see a familiar face there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yes. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	I think we all agree that after the press conferences of the cabinet and the mayor of Amsterdam there is confusion about those mouth caps. It also became clear during the earlier interrupting debates that today we are going to try to get more peace and clarity about this. Mr Asscher now uses the word 'obligatory'. Does he want a legal duty to wear mouth caps inside at that 1.5 meter distance, or does he opt for clear national advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	I would certainly do that, because it affects fundamental rights. It is a restriction of fundamental rights. So you can't say, "Well, look." That's why I'd do that. I would now like to say that, as of today, the urgent advice is to wear a mouth cap anywhere within which it can't be 1.5 metres, for example in the shops. I would also announce that this will be an obligation. All you have to do is settle that formally, because that is what our Constitution prescribes. I think you should use Article 58j of the proposed covid legislation for that. That legislation is not yet in place. The cabinet is late with that, because we have been in this crisis for seven months. But that should be a legal basis to give it legal form as well. Then we all know here that 80% or perhaps 90% or perhaps almost 100% of the Dutch will comply if something is an obligation. After all, you clearly communicate what you're gonna do and why you're gonna do it. You wear that to protect someone else, and so can we all do something about that crisis instead of just sitting inside and waiting. And sure enough, then you'll have to make sure it's legally okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u24	I think one of the lessons of the past few months is that we need to think a lot more about how we change people's behaviour and not think about prohibitions and enforcement every time. So my question is again: is it not much better to go for national advice now with a good communication campaign, so that we appeal to people on their responsibility, and to take the step towards a legal obligation, which also involves a lot of enforcement, and not to start immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u25	Here Mr Jetten is asking a question that I had already answered. I am in favour of a clear national directive, which is now starting with a compelling opinion, making it clear that it will be an obligation. Then Mr Jetten says: how do you maintain all this? I have indicated that if you do that clearly and communicate about the urgency, you will need much less enforcement. I'm not arguing for that either. I'll argue for clarity. In the time we are living now, I find it irresponsible to say seven months of wizard laundry: boys, it doesn't work, but it's mandatory in public transport and you have to wear it on the ferry to Amsterdam-North in the radiant sun, but not in a hospital or a nursing home. You don't have to come up with a battery of enforcers at all, but now you're leaving the enforcement to the supermarket employee who gets into a fight before the entrance. One of them does it now and the other one doesn't. The Beehive will do it and the HEMA won't do it. It's gonna be a competitive advantage. We're almost setting up shopkeepers against each other at the price of the health of their own customers, especially of older visitors. That's irresponsible. So we need to clarify that today. I heard that in an interruption by Dijkhoff. I agree. As far as I'm concerned, we're giving that clarity too. Let there be no misunderstanding: many of the measures that are now being taken intervene in our fundamental rights. That's why it's such a terrible time. They intervene in fundamental rights in order to be able to see each other and meet. This is about your physical integrity, but there's also a fundamental right to health. That's what's going on here. That's what the whole Public Health Act is based on. But don't wait. The main problem is... No, I'm not gonna qualify for that. I think valuable time has been lost. I think we're in a hurry. Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to where I left off in my speech. We see that the cabinet is always moving on independent experts, but we are now also reading that these roles are beginning to get mixed up. I think that's dangerous. We read that the OMT is actually told what to advise instead of the other way around. Nevertheless, if it is said 'do more now and do it faster; go for a faster reduction in the number of infections', I think that is a strong and important appeal to this cabinet. I also believe that the government should take account of the effects that this already has and provide an additional package of support for the sectors most affected. Mr. Chairman. We can still turn the tide, but then the cabinet shouldn't be hard learners. Then we have to step away from a strategy that sometimes looks more like hope that it will succeed than we all clearly strive to contain and push that virus away, thereby keeping the health and economy intact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. It sucks. We had corona under control. The last few weeks, months, the number of infections did increase, so there were warnings and stricter warnings and the pubs closed a bit earlier. That was annoying to hear and do, of course, but it was possible. All these weeks, unfortunately, we were able to prevent more measures such as those that we now have to take, if we were to all just stick to the basic rules. But apparently that was too hard. A small part of the Dutch really beat the rules. A large part of the Dutch still wanted to stick to it, but it became, I think, less sharp with everyone. I think everyone's had a moment of slackness. Still a little too close together on the terrace. Just inviting that extra friend home over the maximum number because it's a birthday and the group is so big. However, more often at work; I think we recognize that here as well. Yet another weekend away to an area that just jumped on orange again. Or at least congratulations on a wedding. At least the virus really enjoyed the macabre dance that it's doing to us. It has used man's most beautiful contact, affection and friendship ruthlessly to spread and then to infect, damage and kill. It has taken so much space, but it has also been given by us, that it is now necessary to take more stringent measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u28	This morning we had a meeting in which a specialist specifically told us what corona actually means, how sick you can get and that we're going to be stuck with chronically ill because people have brain damage and scarring on the lungs for the rest of their lives. Can we then conclude that there is perhaps far too little communication about the severity of this disease and that it is not a simple flu? Has this cabinet not sufficiently taken up its role there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u29	I honestly don't think so. All these months we've seen these messages, too. The question is just how much attention it gets and how much attention people give to it themselves. I myself am not convinced of the feasibility that if people's behavior is not what we had hoped for, then it is a cabinet communication error. In the end, that is always what it comes down to in our society: in the end, it is communication. But these are also just people who choose not to read or skip something themselves or to think "yes, well, you know, it's summer now, it's gonna be okay," or "I've been locked up here for so many months now; never mind" or "it's getting sharper again and in the meantime I'll take it from there." You also hear people say: let's meet quickly now, because we can't do it anymore. It's kind of like you're imagining going to line up in six weeks. Then it makes sense to look after your food in the next six weeks instead of taking it for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u30	Do I hear the VVD say: no matter what the cabinet communicates, it's not good and it doesn't help? We can see that there is increasing movement that it is not really a disaster, that more and more people are denying this virus and that the seriousness of this disease, which is here in the Netherlands and in the whole world, is not getting in the way. We really should say a little more than that: just stay at 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u31	I agree with Mrs Van Brenk on this. That is why I made the point of more public communication last week, for example. I just insisted that I don't think the cause is how the cabinet communicated. I think the reason is that people prefer to listen to something that sounds pleasant, to something that you don't have to limit in your freedom and to something that reassures, although it is false. Those are things like "it's not that bad" and "young people don't suffer from it." We've seen the influencers who got quite the lid on their noses because society said: okay, now it goes too far. Let's just forget about the little group that keeps saying there's nothing wrong and that the virus is already statistically gone. When it got too big, society got up and she said, "Hoho, this is bullshit, this is getting dangerous." I've seen the cabinet interrupting holidays and warning them back then. Then it was criticized that it warned too much. So my reaction was mostly that I don't think it's because of the cabinet that people think that. I think it's pretty human that if the stress and panic around you fall, maybe you'll falsely reassure yourself based on information that sounds more pleasant, but not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u32	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u33	Now additional measures; that is annoying for all of us, but especially for entrepreneurs who are now getting another tap and the people in the care who have warned us and asked us to do our best not to give the virus a chance. I support the measures, but they do not guarantee success. Once again, it really comes down to our own behavior, because if we take measures, but we break the rules or look up the edges, then no measure will help. If we stick to it, then we can spare each other, then the care can handle it and more people can keep their business or their jobs. We'll avoid a lockdown and then we'll do something great for each other. Mr. Chairman. Then the masks. That's where we've been in a bit of a circular reasoning since spring, because if you keep a distance of 1.5 meters, they don't add that much. But we also see places where keeping 1.5 meters away isn't possible or where you do your best but the others don't. It's always the others. They'll add something. We're actually in a bit of a catch 22: you just have to keep your distance and not put on a mouth cap, when that doesn't always work or can. That's why we made it mandatory in the State Department. Then there are also concerns that if you have a mouth cap, you can keep less distance, while there are also studies that show that a mouth cap has a signal effect: if it is worn, people keep more distance, they realize how serious it is and they better follow the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr Asscher and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr Dijkhoff says: it is exciting if it is enough. I don't think it's enough. So the question is whether you should not do more now. He himself brings up the duty of mouthcaps and says that we have been discussing this for so long. In many other places, that discussion is over. In April, the World Health Organisation and the European consultant advised to do so, for example in shops. Then what are we waiting for when we know that we are in a crisis, where every bit can help, precisely to help entrepreneurs and people's health?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u36	In April, therefore, I argued in favour of this and tabled a motion with Mr Klaver, which was then taken over by the cabinet. That is why we did not vote on it. Then it became part of the exit strategy. Then the OMT issued an opinion: it would not add so much at that time, but perhaps it would if the figures were up. The numbers are rising now. I understand that the cabinet will say that it is asking for a new opinion from the OMT, but as far as I am concerned, we do not have to wait for that. To be honest, the advice will be that there is another insight. "It will help and do it," or the advice will remain as it was: "we are divided within the OMT; keeping distance is better and it may never replace it, but it may have an effect." In both cases, my group would say: thank you for the advice; let us do it. As I draw the same conclusion on both of the results of the opinion, I would like to ask the cabinet today to ask for the advice on how to do this. But to choose today to make sure we wear mouth caps in the inner room, if you walk to your spot, before you sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you for that. Then you see there a clear assignment arose for the cabinet. I had mentioned two more points where I think we could do more now: around the schools, which are really struggling with these outbreaks, and around the nursing homes, where the OMT's advice on protective equipment is still not taken over. Can you actually call on the cabinet and urge us to make more haste on these points, given the seriousness of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u38	That's in the asking sense of my input. I'll get back to you on that, but I'm sure you'll be at those schools as well... We often handle the age of 13: from 13 you have to do something. If you introduce that duty from 13 on, that would also mean, in my logic in schools, that you set them up in a school when changing classes in the hallway. But I make one reservation: the field of education often has a strong opinion. So I would like the field of education to be heard in this and I would also like the opinion that this age group should be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u39	Is he gonna come back to the question about the nursing homes? Is that in the input or is he going to say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u40	That's in the input, but that's in the question. So I'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u41	Actually, I'm going back to before the colleague's input on the masks. But I do understand that the VVD is not for an obligation as far as the mouth caps are concerned, but for advice? That is another enlightening question, because for my group an obligation seems to be a step too far. But my question is actually about something he said before. Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD actually says to the people: you have not had your behavior well and we are going to take care of it now. But Mr Dijkhoff, through you, Madam President-in-Office, it is not just the behaviour and perhaps even the behaviour of the people that has caused us to lose sight of the virus? Don't you have to look at your own team in trade-K? We also lost sight of the virus because there's been a mess made of testing, right? People have to wait a long time to test; so they may still go to work or not stay home. I'll also mention the contact investigation that doesn't take place if you have to wait for tests. I believe that this research is carried out hardly or not at all in most GGDs; people have to do it themselves. That's how you lose sight of the virus, with all the consequences. Look at the infections through the so-called small microdrops, the aerosols. In inner spaces, good ventilation, I think, is even more important than that five feet. In Germany and other countries, they pay a lot of attention to this. The cabinet doesn't want to do that. Isn't it a little easy to say that the people in the country have done it all and now there are measures again? Did you yourself and didn't your cabinet just fail on parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u42	It's all connected. We've got more eyes on the virus than ever before. That's why we know it's getting out of hand. That is why we can already project what is happening on the ic and do not have to wait until we come up with measures. At the beginning of the walk-up there was full visibility and there was no test problem either. After that there were indeed test problems; we have less test capacity than we want. But at the first warning at the beginning of the summer it was not there. A test doesn't cure anyone either. A test can help you find out faster that you have to stay home. It can help to make it easier for people to see what measures they have to comply with and how they should behave. So it's both. Nor is it the fault of people themselves, when the cabinet has done a great job; I am not saying that. You need to fix it together. There is no point in taking measures if we then ignore them all and it does not help to ask people to stick to the measures if the means we choose and which we are trying to use to make them easier, less painful and less costly are not in order. So I guess these things are just connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u43	It's not true that testing doesn't cure people; literally it does. We see that still around 10,000 people a day who wanted to be tested cannot be tested. Of the people being tested, I think around 7% are positive. That's 7% of 10,000 people every day who aren't being tested, 700 people. Those are 700 people who, if they don't have their test results, certainly don't all stay home. It might have to go back to work, go to the office, go to shops. Those 700 could infect other people. And that every day. 700 people who are infected do not have a contact examination; they are not tested and have no rash. Your cabinet will take care of that. That's hundreds, thousands of people who are sick and infected others. They are added every day, because the cabinet does not have the test policy in order. Madam President. You also did not go into my story about aerosols, at least Mr Dijkhoff. Again, TU Delft recently made such a projection. People were sitting in a room and sneezed in the back; that was then imitated. If there was no window open, you could see the image that for minutes all small aerosols were wandering around around that person. When the window opened, you saw them leave immediately. This to show that the people who have become ill have really not all sneezed each other in the face. They just got sick because of poor ventilation in indoor areas. If you don't do something about it, if you deny it, more people will get sick. Then you can blame people, but that may be the fault of the wrong policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u44	In my opinion, Mr Wilders illustrates two things with his numbers: we have a great deal of insight into the numbers and the infections. In fact, he illustrates exactly what I was trying to say, but perhaps he is better off doing so, namely that people's behaviour determines whether those infections continue and that the cabinet policy can help those people, so that the behaviour they need to exhibit is less annoying. So Mr Wilders is right: because people are not tested, you increase the chance that their behaviour is not good, and as a result they are spreading the virus again. So the tests have to be in order. We discussed this in detail last week. The test itself does not determine whether the virus is spreading. But Mr Wilders is right. That's why I said those things are connected. Then it's about aerosols. I agree with Mr Wilders that they play a role. In view of the studies, I do not think that aerosols play such a big role that all other measures would actually be superfluous. If something hangs around someone who's sneezed, keeping distance is still wise. And it's even nicer when those aerosols are gone fast. Then it's about distance and whether it's aerosols, whether it's aerogene and whether it's airborne. And then you also have the practical question what we can do with those tips and advice on ventilation. If most people infect each other in the home situation, is that because of contact in each other's vicinity? And you know, whether that drop stuck at five feet or came straight to me, it's still wise to keep your distance. It's still wise to check the ventilation. I believe there are also advice from the RIVM about the type of ventilation, where you change the air from the outside or circulate it, because the latter is even more unwise; so you have ventilation, but the wrong one. Well, I just don't think that we can put systems in every house, so that doesn't necessarily mean that it's a whole different package of measures if you put more emphasis on aerosol distribution of droplets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u45	Finally, Mr President. Once again, I am not here to lecture Mr Dijkhoff or anything, but I think it is just too easy to link it to people's behaviour. It is indeed also the cabinet that, as I have already said with the tests, with the source and contact research.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's not people's behavior. If people think that and take the responsibility to be tested now and have to wait days for it, or companies that are now even being tested in Germany, right across the border at Venlo in Duisburg, and pay them out of their own pockets, that is also the result of the cabinet which then simply failed and could have been prepared for it. If, once again, you lay the line on sneeze, you know that in September a lot of people are coming to get tested. About aerosols, finally: yes, I sincerely think you, especially in indoor spaces, with good ventilation... Again, I'm not a virus denier. Nor do I deny that even large drops can cause you, when I stand close to you, to get sick inside, and I sneeze. But people often deny the importance of those little drops. And if you acknowledge that, and you're going to have a policy on those microdrops and make a ventilation plan, then you're gonna recognize that you're gonna have a lot more sick people in indoor spaces than you're gonna have on those 1.5 meters, because that's often not enough for indoor spaces. So I am so sorry that this does not happen, because then we could work together to reduce the number of infections in the Netherlands, and also to reduce people's other obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u46	To that end, I very much agree with Mr Wilders; I also think that there is a profit there. I don't think that profits are greater than those 1.5 meters, so I don't want to give the impression that if we start doing other things with ventilation, we won't have to maintain those annoying 1.5 meters and sit in a store or in the hospitality industry again with a lot more people. And I also agree with Mr Wilders on... I'm not blaming anyone. I'm trying to analyze how it got this far. And that's where our behavior plays a role. And it certainly plays a role in that, when we fail to do everything we can to make it as easy as possible for everyone to comply with those rules and prevent spread, that is also a factor that indirectly leads to a higher risk of spread.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr Azarkan, and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Dijkhoff actually says in the first part of his story: it is the fault of a small group of people who have not kept to the agreements, and that is why we are now in a very difficult situation. I miss the reflection on the actions of the Minister and the Prime Minister. How does Mr Dijkhoff view this action?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u49	First of all, the word "debt"... I just analyzed what happened. I don't think anyone here will deny that there was no Dutchman who beat the rules, but also not that there were still a lot of people of good will, but it all got a bit less sharp. Here too, how we work here with each other; it just got a little less sharp. That is an analysis of how it has come about and from which I try to draw lessons, namely that the call for self-responsibility, which I, as a liberal, am strongly in favour of, does not always do enough. So in this case, also with regard to the interruption between the cabinet and Mr Wilders: well, that testing, if that had been in order, if we had more capacity to wait less long, then you reduce the chance that people think "well, I'm not gonna wait for this," "it's costing me too much," "the disadvantages are too great," or for other reasons. I don't want to accuse those people; they can be perfectly normal human reasons, which makes you the wrong choice. And reduce the number of wrong choices if you have more test capacity. Last week we discussed it extensively with the cabinet that it should have been better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u50	We talked about this in detail last week. And it was the pillar in the fight against the virus: the combination of tests and source and contact research. We were going to extinguish it, that was the idea. But then we also have to conclude that, when we do not do well, we ask a lot of questions, and that we ask a lot more now? Of course, that has to do with behavior, but it also ensures that people are unclear at the moment and that trust goes away. So I think it is important that we explain in conjunction that we have failed partly in the testing and the source and contact research. The result is that it becomes even more difficult to control the virus. The difference with Germany... We saw it yesterday, too. I asked that question myself. We do as many tests as Germany, but the quality is also in the speed. If we can do it faster, we'll have a lot more control over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u51	Sure. At the same time we test much more than in spring, when we did. Then we asked for more people. Of course, we need to ask less annoying things from people to help fight the virus if you have even more test capacity, can be tested faster and have a rash faster. That's a fact for me. But I don't think that, if we can't, we shouldn't ask that multiple that we're asking of people. I'd like you to be able to call, test and get the results as soon as possible if you get a cold. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. Then I think we should wait that day extra. It's still many days less than in spring, when we couldn't test at all. Even if you were sick and said that you were in that ski hut in Austria for three days that was in the paper and was a big spreader, and said that you're very sick now and the lungs are coughing out of your body, the doctor didn't say, "Let's get tested." Then we couldn't even test. So, yeah, I wish we were even further. That would have made it even easier. Then the costs or disadvantages for you to follow the rules are smaller. But just because it's not what we had hoped for now doesn't mean that you shouldn't ask people to stick to the rules and stay inside in that extra day or two days that you have to wait, to prevent the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u52	I have a question for Mr Dijkhoff, who builds on Mr Asscher's interruption, about protective equipment in nursing homes. Mr Dijkhoff said that he was going to do something with it to the cabinet, but I have a question for Mr Dijkhoff. He's now pleading for mouth caps. Can Mr Dijkhoff make one argument or think of one reason why we are now having this conversation about mouth caps in public space, when we would not give our caregivers in the nursing homes, who are extremely at risk and working with a very vulnerable target group, those protective devices? Can he come up with one argument for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u53	No. I wouldn't say: put the mouth caps on inside if they can't get a foot and a half. I think that's confusing, too. Then I walk into an empty store and when there's 10 more people in one go, I have to put on that cap. So I would say, in those kind of spaces inside. You don't have to go outside, inside. In a theater or theater, you put it on until you're in place. If you're in place, you can do it again. Then it is also strange that it does not have to be in the nursing homes if it is in the municipality or throughout the country, as we want as a Chamber. Of course. Only, I don't think in a nursing home it's a question of whether you want a non-medical mouth cap, like people have it in the O.V. or in the cinema. In health care, you want more. That's where you want medical mouth masks. So the answer to Mrs Marijnissen's question is: no, I cannot think of that, but I do not think it is the desired outcome for Mrs Marijnissen if we propose to put on a substance mask in the care that you wear on the train. They're different categories, though. By definition, if you advise or have to enter mouth caps, you get them in the nursing homes also for the visitors. I do think that a care institution should have the space to assess that. I can also imagine that there are situations where it is not just about people who need physical care, where the assessment of the treating doctor or nurse is that that person is very upset and that it is not going to help. There must be room for the professional to judge in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u54	Of course. Of course, it's about protective equipment for our caregivers in the nursing homes. But my point is... If you think that a fabric mouth cover in the supermarket is now an addition to the measures, then I also hear the VVD argue in favour of it.How is it possible that to this day the cabinet doesn't advise the OMT and caregivers, but the cabinet doesn't give protection to our caregivers in all nursing homes? That was my question to Mr Dijkhoff. Can he give a reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u55	That's a question why the cabinet doesn't do something. Only the Cabinet can answer that question. When asking whether something is necessary or not, the OMT opinions are leading me. And if there's anything you need to do, you have to do it. If the OMT says that it can help, but that it doesn't think that it is necessary, as in the case of the mouth caps in public space, then there are other arguments. Then there are questions like: do we have enough, what is the trade-off, do we think it should be mandatory in the Netherlands or do we think it sufficient if healthcare institutions themselves can say that they choose to do it? So if we are going to introduce a national mouth cap obligation or advice for non-care and non-medical institutions, then the question arises as to whether there is a relationship with medical masks in the care and nursing homes and whether the cabinet thinks it is logical to scale them up as well. That is the question I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u56	The OMT opinion is clear. The OMT advises protective equipment for our caregivers in the nursing homes. Now, and then in all the nursing homes, so not only in the nursing homes in the fireplaces. The words of Mr Dijkhoff again fell: is there enough? That is a wretched question, which is again hanging over the market. This happens after the debate we had last week, the solid debate on this where at least one thing was made very clear by the cabinet. That was: no, the scarcity was over, the shortage of stuff was over. But it is indeed the question that pops up again. If everyone asks, if the caregivers ask, if the OMT recommends it, what is the reason why the cabinet is still blocking it? Does Mr Dijkhoff not agree with me that we are taking a huge risk with this? We all remember what happened in those nursing homes in the first wave. But the cabinet is in the wind with the OMT advice in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u57	Whether the question is a problem depends on the answer. We'll get it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u59	So I would like to hear from the cabinet what needs to be done to introduce the wearing of masks nationwide and how quickly we can achieve this. Does the cabinet think that an urgent opinion would be sufficient, or should we require it? And how do we do that? Do you have to go through the Corona Act? I believe that Mr Asscher has already looked up the precise article for his amendment. The question is also whether there is a relationship with the nursing care that we have to take into account, or with other forms of care. There is also the question of what age limit would be wise. Should we join the 13 years of age, as with other measures? Does it help the schools that the students wear mouth caps in the hallways? Or do schools see any objection to which we should not do so? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, before there is a national advice or even a duty, everyone is of course free to put on a cap. Everyone in the country is also free to say: they are my house rules; here you just wear them. Every store can do that; the O.V. already does that. But I also understand that entrepreneurs do not want to get in the position of having to decide and then maintain it. This may not be clear to customers, and that is not pleasant for entrepreneurs. Hence the questions I just asked. Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs are already having a hard time and are not going to get it any easier in the next few weeks. What does the support to entrepreneurs look like? How does this package work, and in particular for the catering industry in the coming period? We now have 20 days to show that we are prepared to abide by some nasty but necessary measures. We do that because we take our people in care seriously, because we take the heavier consequences of a lockdown seriously and because we take each other seriously. It is not necessarily the measures that have to work. They tell us what we can do to prevent spread. But we will have to do so with 17 million Dutch people and ensure that these measures work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr Asscher has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u61	If you see how quickly the number of infections has grown and how slow this type of measure is working out, then I think there is virtually no chance that we will be able to relax again in three weeks' time. So I think it's better to be honest about that and to agree on a more stringent package so that it increases its chances. Because this getting over it is a nightmare for people trying to keep a bar in their legs. I think we already know that more support is needed. For culture, for catering, a targeted package. Shall we ask the Cabinet to come forward with such a package in two weeks' time? We can't say it's breathing. It's not breathing at all. This comes on top of it for a lot of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u62	At first, for sure. I put it this way: we have twenty days to avoid worse together. I didn't say "to reverse it." That would be fantastic, but I think it would be a great deal if we could see in three weeks' time that no additional measures would be needed. So we would all have done it together, because that is where it is true for'sacrifice' to have done it handsomely. And do you have a view of relaxation after that and then when? Look, we've got support packages. There's a trail in there. That was in case no additional measures were needed. So I think, if you take these additional measures for additional damage, that the package needs to move forward. The question is to what extent this is already happening. Then we can judge whether we think that is enough or not and whether we ask the cabinet to put another tooth on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u64	"To put a tooth on top of it?" I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u65	Something like that, but we do understand. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u66	I have a question about this support package and about how entrepreneurs look at it. Is it realistic to expect entrepreneurs to understand this correctly? Less than a week ago, we talked about a package in reduction, in which we are going to impose stricter requirements on aid. We're less than a week away, and we can already see that the power test is going off. And it's already been announced that it's different. If there's one thing I get back a lot from entrepreneurs, it's that ambiguity. Can you expect a cabinet to develop a vision for more than a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u67	That reminds me a bit of Mrs Marijnissen's question about a road map. But it also assumes as-then. You can expect the Cabinet to outline, for the various scenarios of how the virus can develop and the impact it has on the economy and society, what would happen in general. You can't expect the Cabinet to predict the future. We've got a package, and there's a cut-off. It has also been said that if the virus re-emergs and you have to take measures that will lead to deteriorating prospects for entrepreneurs, then things will be postponed again, just as Mr Azarkan has said. That's how it works, and I don't think in a crisis situation like this, with such a pandemic, you can predict how things are going to turn out any more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u68	Last question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u69	That's just the question. I think the Cabinet, which talks to scientists, behavioral experts and all kinds of other experts, is gonna let you expect them to have more information than you and I. I really think it is a lot that we are reducing this debate a little bit to: whether or not we have mouth caps. I find that very strange, because I can't judge that at all. I don't have that information. The cabinet says we have 50% information, but we have to make 100% decisions. I may have 1% of the information. So I think it's good that we can determine this here. I do believe that the responsibility lies with the people to whom we have asked, who have been appointed for it and who are equipped for it. I think it's really remarkable what happened last week. And then a lot of other people said, "Is this really the time? Aren't you gonna make that entrepreneur insecure again? Then I find it so easy to say: yes, no one can see into the future. No, what we are asking of the Prime Minister is that he can look somewhat into the future and that he is working on models. I do not think it is justified, and I hope you will agree with me that last week we said 'this is the package' and say to entrepreneurs a week later: we are going to change that again. I don't think that's justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u70	I think Mr Azarkan, if he just takes the information that is being provided to us, has much more than 1% of the information. Those models and forecasts and the information from the scientists are also provided to us. We also see the advice. But they're models and projections. And they're scenarios. I think it is very sensible for the cabinet to say: in the baseline scenario, in which we do not get a new lockdown, this is the phasing-out path. Then you know what you're up to. The alternative is to say: you can't look ahead for more than three weeks, so, entrepreneur, you'll hear what you're up to. But it's also about saying, if the facts change, and if things turn out worse, we'll adjust something. I think it is better to give that clarity, and now, for example, to say that we will not introduce that power test as of 1 October, than to say: we have said it, so we are sticking to that. All these scientists and all these experts can say to the cabinet: in certain developments this happens. But no one, not even she, can predict how it works. They're not psychics the Cabinet's talking to. Of course, it's still scientists who come up with projections, models and scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u72	I had Mr Dijkhoff's words working on me. I think he was right to say that we can hope that the package of measures that is now in place will stabilise in six weeks' time. This means that we are stuck with this package for much longer and, if it continues to be so, we will need at least another month or two of these measures to see that decline. Have I understood Mr Dijkhoff so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u73	I'm not saying that as Nostradamus. When I look at the figures and the measures... I think we're trying a three-week reset now and then we know where we stand. I do not think that the spread has already been reduced so far that you can say: we are done. I think it's just a matter of getting along. In the spring I have always called that a "macaber dance." If the spread decreases again, you need to see which things you can relax first. The measures are, of course, much less intense now than in the case of a total lockdown. We already know more, and that's what we're using.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u74	I understand. This was also indicated at the briefing this morning by members of the Red Team. They said that we would actually need more with these measures. The question I have to ask Mr Dijkhoff is whether he would consider it wiser to take a firmer approach now with tougher measures so that we can keep the deadline a little shorter. If we continue in this way now, the chances that we will actually stop the virus are smaller and the chances that we will have to scale up measures are greater. In other words, we're actually increasing the misery for society. Too soft healers... Well, you know the proverb.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u75	Yes. And sharp knives, clean wounds. The problem is that you're bringing up the misery. It depends on what you do. Look at the catering business. This is of course very annoying and it has a real impact on your case if you can let the last people in at 9:00 p.m. If we shut down the catering business completely for three weeks, things don't all open up again, even if we manage to reduce the virus further. If we can continue this, I think more companies will survive in three weeks. I know you're at risk, but I think that's more in our behavior. That's what I've been trying to tell you all along. We're gonna get a lockdown anyway if we go back to looking up the edges and pretend we're all lawyers: this is what it says, but do I have to do it here, or do I get a little more here? That also applies if we just break the rules. We'll get the damage anyway. I therefore believe that we can reduce the virus in a way that is annoying, but which seeks a balance between reducing the virus and harming society and the economy. It is not just about companies and entrepreneurs, but also about our own social contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u77	Madam President. The cabinet has decided on a number of new measures, as the number of corona infections is increasing again. The image is once again a complete chaos. There's been a disagreement between the cabinet and his OMT advisors. The test policy is still a mess. The horrible corona app turns out to be as leaky as a basket when it comes to privacy. Meanwhile, care workers are still waiting for a bonus, but officials already get a homework bonus of as much as €363 for an extra cup of coffee at home. It shouldn't get much crazier. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the Netherlands is losing control of the virus. This is not due to citizens who do not comply with the rules, but to the cabinet that still does not have its business in order and that comes with the wrong measures. First of all, let's talk about the wrong measures. I said it in an interruption to Mr Dijkhoff: the one and a half meter rule in the outdoors is really nonsense, because hardly anyone with normal behavior gets infected in the outdoors. For indoor spaces, good ventilation to prevent microdrop aerogenic infections is much more important than the one and a half meter rule. It is incredible that the cabinet still does not want to do this, unlike many other countries, such as Germany. That is irresponsible, because it will put us in a situation where more people are infected. That's unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. The test policy is still an embarrassing display, with waiting lists that of course should never have been there. There are companies that have their people tested in Germany because they have to wait too long here. Minister De Jonge now has plans to send our DNA to Sharia emirate Abu Dhabi because too little testing can be done here. It's unbelievable. The source and contact research is an even bigger mess, because most of it is absent, with all the consequences. Mr. Chairman. The problem of more infections is, apart from the terrible consequences for people who are getting sick and the blows to our economy, mainly because hospital care is now in danger of becoming overburdened, while a lot of healthcare workers are already struggling. Then I'm not talking about corona care so much, but I'm talking about regular care. If the number of corona patients in hospitals continues to increase, the care of non-corona patients is at stake. Then doctors have to choose who does and who doesn't get care. We've seen how that goes wrong earlier this year. People with cancer, heart disease or diabetes didn't get care or care too late, so they only got sicker and sometimes even died. Like in the Tilburg Elisabeth-TwoCities Hospital, where a patient with oral cancer can no longer operate because he had to wait, and now only palliative help can be given, and a patient with breast cancer has now died because she was no longer given care. It is always that wrong economy in the care, closing hospitals and winding down hospital beds, and the cowardice when it comes to the salaries of our care heroes. If you deal with care like that, you'll have natúrual problems in crisis time. Mr. Chairman. In order not to allow regular care to collapse, not only the number of infections and the number of hospitalisations should be reduced, but there should also be sufficient care staff. Because that's the big problem today. From hospital care to care for the elderly, there is a huge shortage of care workers. It is incomprehensible that Minister De Jonge did not foresee and arrange this. My appeal to Minister De Jonge is therefore: take care of sufficient staff in the care. Seduce them with a higher salary! Make sure that they do not lose part of that salary if they start working more part-time, because they lose their rent allowance or their health care allowance or any supplement. Make sure that more managers in care go back to the workplace. It's crisis time! We need fewer managers. Go work in the workplace. That could add up to tens of thousands of extra hands to the bed. Mr. Chairman. Then our economy. Our economy can't handle a second lockdown. It would destroy our country and create hundreds of thousands more unemployed. Many entrepreneurs are already almost bankrupt. So the Netherlands cannot lock again, I say to the Prime Minister. In the coming six months, the aid measures for firms will not be reduced. Please withdraw all your proposals to that effect. This is not the time to be economical. Go around the table with sectors that almost completely fall over, like the catering industry. Help them. Help them where they can, even when it comes to extra money. Half a million people work in the catering industry. Half of the sector is already technically bankrupt and they are now getting it disproportionately hard. Don't let that happen, I'll tell this Prime Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. The virus happened to us. But if you don't get a chance to deal with it, you're gonna lose the game. So cabinet, finally make the right choices and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u79	Does Mr Wilders know how many ic-beds there were in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u80	I don't know how many ic-beds there were in 2015, but I do know that the total number of beds in the hospital sector in 2009 was about 47,000. That's about ten years ago. The total number of beds in hospitals has therefore fallen by almost 10,000 over the ten years of Rutte. I'm sure that will give the same pattern to the ICUs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u81	That's right. I can give you the answer: there were 2,200 in 2015. Then, of course, my follow-up question is: do you remember how many there were in March 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u82	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u83	That was 1,200. But the best question is, of course, how many are there now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u84	At least there are far too few of them. We should have at least 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 or maybe 10,000 Ic beds. The problem in the Netherlands is all these cuts. All those Rutte Cabinets have just cut back on care for the past ten years. They've been stingy on salaries. Hospitals are closed. They've scaled the number of beds. That's all been so wrong. If you want to do that differently, you'll have to reinvest in care. That's the only answer I can give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u85	I couldn't agree more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u86	Okay. Then I'll go to Mr. Pieter Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u87	I thought, inspired by Mr Van Haga, that I would also ask a few quiz questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u88	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u89	I have just heard Mr Wilders, in an interruption to Mr Dijkhoff, say quite clearly that he does not want a duty to cover his mouth, that he is against it. But I think I also heard him say that he could support the nationalisation of the advice which now applies only to the big cities. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u90	Well, maybe a quiz question back then. In May of this year, I tabled a motion calling on the cabinet to give advice to do so in indoor spaces, supermarkets and such like. I will answer the quiz question myself: the CDA voted against it. My motion in May, which said "advice to do so," was therefore rejected by your party. I'm always, except for certain sectors... When we first came out of the crisis, we sometimes advocated an obligation for contact professions such as hairdressers, but in general I think it is far too far to impose an obligation in the public space in the Netherlands that the government decides that you should wear a mouth cap. That's not what I'm here for. But I'm not against the government giving an opinion, as long as it stays with an opinion and doesn't become an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr. Chairman. Another debate on corona, at a crucial moment. It will be no different with you: via Instagram I get a lot of messages, especially from young people. "Aren't these too many measures? What are we doing?" "Is it true with those PCR tests, they're not very accurate?" "The number of deaths isn't that bad. This is very similar to flu, for example." All those people who are asking why we are doing this and why I will be calling for more action in a moment, we must keep it on the retina. We have to stop the care from being able to cope with it again. We can already see that the hospitals are very busy. We cannot applaud all those people who work in care and then take no measures to prevent them from being able to do their job. I was at a television programme yesterday and then I talked to a doctor, an oncologist, about the care that should also be continued for non-corona patients. That too is in danger. Think about what it would mean to you if a family member got sick or yourself, and then the right care couldn't be provided. That is what we are trying to do with each other, and for that we sometimes have to take terrible measures with each other. That is why we cannot rule out measures at present in time. Mr. Chairman. I think the cabinet missed a chance at the last press conference. Instead of creating clarity, there has actually been more discussion and uncertainty. I also think that the cabinet should have taken more action. Then you can think straight away of very harsh measures, as Mr Dijkhoff said: three weeks everything is closed. That's not what I want to suggest. I'd like to look back on a few things. There are restrictive measures for the catering industry, because we see that the number of infections there was high. I get that. But if we look back at the summer and where the infections came from, then the re-introducing of the virus has largely come from people who came back from vacation. I think it is a mistake that the cabinet did not act more firmly at the time, and I think that the cabinet should not only give advice, but should state as urgently as possible that going abroad on holiday this autumn is not an option. As little travel as possible. And then the masks. It has been said scientifically enough whether or not mouth caps work. A political choice must now be made. In my opinion, and in my opinion, a majority in the Chamber, there should be a national duty to cover all public indoor areas where you cannot keep sufficient distance. The real question is how we're gonna do that. I also found the interrupting debates on this very interesting, because it is a very difficult question. I see some sort of escalation ladder in there, I'll say. In any case, I believe that the mask should be included in the RIVM Directive. With communication, we can get a long way. With handwashing, in the elbow sneezing almost everyone does it, but sometimes you make a mistake and keep at a distance of 1.5 meters. If we say that mouth caps should be included, this should be incorporated into the RIVM guidelines. In all the shops and buildings where I come from, it says that there are RIVM guidelines. I think that's a lot of clarity. For the short term, we simply have the Public Health Act, with the Minister's designation in Article 7. If necessary, this can be used. However, this becomes problematic when it takes a very long time. Then, as Mr Asscher said, we come to the corona law that is being made. That's the order. I hope that today we are not just fighting each other. I hope that we can show the Netherlands that we are taking a step forward. As far as I am concerned, the first step is to include it in the RIVM directives. We need to think together here about how to make enforcement possible for the mayors. I'd like to hear from the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u93	I actually hear Mr Klaver say: do not oblige now, but we are holding back the option if compliance is too limited. Mr Asscher said that it should now be advised in the directives and that we can make it mandatory as soon as the law arrives. The tone was we're gonna make it. I hear more from Mr Klaver that we should start with an opinion. If too few people stick to it, he still wants to make it a duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u94	First, I say something in general. We must be careful to think that we can make commitments in this crisis. I don't know about you guys, but threatening to punish you if you don't do something isn't the very best motivation to act. I think you've come a long way with very good communication. That is why I think it should be included in the directive. That doesn't shut the stick behind the door. We're gonna need it. You can do that through Article 7, like I said. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he can deploy that already. At least that gives the mayors powers to act if necessary. Then you can see if you're gonna put it in the law. How exactly that fits in with the legal technique is not quite clear to me yet. I'm telling you, honestly, I need to take a closer look at that. I am not going to rule on whether or not this is going to happen. I think it's an option, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman. Then the masks in the nursing homes. I do not want this debate to end without the government making a commitment that all nursing homes should have mouth caps. I find it incomprehensible. Last week we had a very intense debate on this. The OMT advises to do it in all nursing homes, but the cabinet limits it to three regions with 1.5 meters. This 1.5 meter does not come back in any other directive, not in the opinion of Bianca Neighbor and not in the guidelines of ACDC. Please, go to all the nursing homes to use these mouth and nose masks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u97	We'll make that plea, too. But I haven't heard from anyone so far about community nursing, not even this cabinet. I honestly do not understand why this sector is being skipped. I just think it's outrageous. I really hope that your plea is to make these protective equipment available to them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u98	Sure, you're right. I should have mentioned those people, too. Home care and care workers also come into situations where they can put themselves at risk or put the patients at risk. They end up visiting a lot of people. It also applies to that category. It applies to all those caregivers who have been told so far that it is volatile contact taking into account 1.5 metres. Only in emergencies was it necessary. No, we have to use it preventively for all those professions. While we are at it, I would point out that it also applies to disability care. I am also very concerned about mental health care. It shouldn't be locked again. Preventive measures must be taken to ensure that these institutions remain open. The point is clear. I think that's what the Chamber wants. I think this is also widely advised about nursing homes and home care. We really need to move on. To be quite honest, I do not think it is acceptable if that is not the conclusion of yet another debate we have on this issue. If we let this pass, we can't take ourselves seriously anymore. Mr. Chairman. Finally. This will have a huge impact, including on our economy and our society. This calls for additional measures, for the cultural sector, for the catering industry, but also for all thosezzp'ers. I was glad to hear that the power test will at least temporarily fail. But I really want to point out that the partner test puts a lot of people in trouble. These are mainly people who work as a social worker in the cultural sector and who have a partner who, for example, works in the care or education sector. Those partners earn between €1,500 and €2,000 per month. The zzp'er gets no support. With this amount, a lot of people cannot support their families. We must intervene strongly, but then we must help people to make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you, Mr President. The Animal Party, like many other parties, is deeply concerned about the rise of the virus. The questions as to whether we are doing enough and whether we should not have intervened earlier, therefore also play with my party. At the same time, however, we are also aware that these measures have a major impact on society, not only on entrepreneurs, but also on our psychological well-being and on citizens' rights. These interests must be constantly weighed against each other. But doubts must not lead to passivity. The effect of the measures will only become gradually visible in two weeks. Hospitals are already warning that they need to delay a lot of regular care to cope with the number of covid patients. So the logical question arises as to why the cabinet has only now come up with more stringent measures. At least it seems too late for care. And are these measures going to be enough? Or should a reproduction number of 0.8 be sought? I'd like to hear a reaction to this. The basis is still not in order. Last week we discussed the lack of adequate testing and tracing capacity. As long as it is not arranged, it actually keeps mopping with the tap open. When is this gonna work out? And that other basis under the corona policy is the basis of support. That is really being undermined in two ways at the moment. The first undermining stems from the tendency to resort to half-hearted measures, actually in a kind of attempt to keep everyone happy. It achieves the opposite. A regional masking obligation causes confusion and resistance, and undermines confidence in these measures. We are in favour of a single directive, regardless of what the cabinet chooses. That directive should apply to everyone and should be able to be enforced at a national level. I'd like to hear a response. The second undermining arises from this blind spot of the cabinet for two sectors that undermine public health, namely aviation and slaughterhouses. People really don't understand why they don't intervene. Because Corona did not walk from China to Europe in March, and yet aviation always comes under all the rules. Limit the travel, was the message from the cabinet on Monday. Among other things in the NS they probably should have taken a while. If not in the aviation sector, where you can still fly to your favorite risk destination for a bump. Café bosses are now desperate, but the restaurants at the airports can continue to give happy gifts until after 10 p.m., at least if we have to believe the information on the page of national government.nl. The one-and-a-half-meter measure has killed the cultural sector, but never existed on aircraft. How does the cabinet justify this derogation for aviation, which continues to go on and on? Because politics is choosing in scarcity. With an increasing number of infections and scarce test capacity, we need to think very carefully about the risks we want to take and what we want to use our scarce test capacity for. That, of course, means allowing and testing for unnecessary fun flights in a different light. As long as the test capacity is scarce, the scaling up of test capacity for passengers at Schiphol Airport will be at the expense of capacity for other people. Flying to code-orange destinations is therefore really irresponsible. And reserving scarce test capacity for holiday flights is really hard to explain. Therefore, the Party proposes to reduce the number of flights: no more flying until testing is possible. I'd like to hear a response. Yesterday, the Chamber also adopted a motion by the Animal Party in which it states that the promotion of dumping tickets to areas at risk by airlines is completely out of place. In addition, the cabinet must now really intervene by actively discouraging these fun flights, as is also requested in a motion from me that was adopted earlier. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'll join the slaughterhouses as well. While we thought we could breathe this summer, slaughterhouses in Austria, Belgium, Ireland and England, among others, were faced with new large corona outbreaks among the staff. After all the outbreaks that took place in Dutch slaughterhouses before the summer, the Chamber and trade unions called for an immediate reduction in slaughter rates. For example, the slaughterhouse staff do not need to continue to work shoulder to shoulder. But at the moment, Dutch pig slaughterhouses are expanding their production again and there are plans to increase the slaughter rate again. That's not because something has changed in the threat of the virus. Quite the contrary. The reason is purely economic: because prices are rising and there are additional opportunities for exports to China, for example. And that, while the virus is now in full swing in society, with all the dangers it poses to the staff in the slaughterhouses. We're doing everything we can to get the reproduction number down again. Will the cabinet now give this sector, a proven fireplace, a real job to sell extra pig ribs to China? If we put public health at risk for this, I ask the Prime Minister. As far as we are concerned, therefore, absolutely not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u101	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr. Chairman. In this time of corona, we all have these short coronage conversations with a neighbor, or a colleague, or just someone who recognizes you on the street and speaks to you. Sometimes these conversations linger, because someone says something you think is "hey, that's relevant" or "I hadn't looked at it like that." I had such a conversation last weekend when someone said to me: I really know I have to change my behavior, but I'm trying to delay the moment that I really have to do that. That is a sign of the feeling that I think a lot of people have been sitting with in the last few weeks. Am I gonna do that birthday? I'm going to that Friday afternoon drink, aren't I? Am I going shopping that afternoon or not? I think more and more people don't, but it's happened a lot. These are difficult political considerations, too, because we are in the middle of that second wave, and tougher measures are needed to put the virus back on its feet. It is therefore a good thing that the measures taken this week have been taken. But the question that also lies above this debate is: is it enough? That's a very difficult question to answer. Much has already been said about mouth caps, and I am going to say something about this too, but the OMT is also considering another measure. That is a very difficult and sensitive measure with a loaded word. Because it's about a curfew. That measure is in the OMT opinion and the cabinet has not taken it over. I understand that, but at the same time there is that question of whether it is enough. In Antwerp, a curfew, like mouth caps, was part of the package, which was very similar to the Dutch package, to get that R down there very quickly and to go down very quickly. Since the cabinet sketched the picture "we're doing this now to prevent a lockdown," my plea is not to set a curfew after all. I'd like to ask the following question. Suppose this type of harder measures doesn't prove to be enough in a week or a few days' time, does the cabinet still consider taking these kinds of steps, or is this the package and are we directly at the lockdown when we find out in two or three weeks that it's not enough and that the R has gone above 0.9? However, I would like to ask the sensitive question about the additional opinion of the OMT, also in the future. Last week, in the debate, we also discussed the risk of the regional approach, the lack of clarity, the fact that the image is diffuse and that behaviour is not sufficiently adapted. That was in the context of: how are you going to do that next time? In the meantime we have been overtaken by reality because of the rapidly rising figures and there has now been a clear rural line since Monday. We have also seen that 6.5 million people were looking at it again, because everyone felt that this was the time when they had to change their own behaviour. However, as far as the mouth caps are concerned, a regional line has yet again been chosen. This is also the result of the opinion of the OMT, which was divided on this issue. At the same time, reference is made to an earlier opinion of 28 July, which stated that if the figures were very high, this might be different. That is why, according to that OMT line, the cabinet has now chosen the urgent oral mask advice only in the big cities. With regard to the figures, however, should we also note the figures that Jaap van Dissel had yesterday, which showed that almost the whole of the Netherlands is with strong increases in figures and, for reasons of clarity, do we not see that, as many have said here, we have to get an urgent national advice in order to start wearing that mouth cap in the supermarkets and in the public indoors? Because I think it is precisely about those mouth caps that clarity is desirable. On behalf of my group too, therefore, the question is whether what is now only being asked in the big cities should not simply be asked for a national emergency, otherwise perhaps in a few days' time we will see that we are going to do it there. Then you can also clearly communicate about it. I also believe that many institutions are in need of this. I already got e-mails from institutions outside those big cities. They say: from now on, if you come here, we will give the urgent advice to put on a mask. I would like to close with two questions. The first one has to do with the quick tests. We adopted a motion on this matter this week which was tabled last week. What's the situation now? Indeed, there are images from other countries where they are now being bought and experimented with. What's that like in the Netherlands? Are we here for the wave, too? The second question concerns the Irish example that Mrs Marijnissen mentioned. I believe that a motion by Mr Jetten was tabled last week on the issue of clarity. It is a pretty A3 format by the way. It's not small, but it does clarify what stage you're doing. When can we have this as the Netherlands? I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. As in spring, together we can get this virus underneath. Together we stand strong. It will be difficult, again in the coming weeks, but if we persist, we can also push this wave down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u103	The last question, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u104	I was just chewing on that hard word "curfew." I understand very well that the cabinet has not taken any steps in this respect. I fully support that, because in a curfew, I am thinking of an emergency situation in which you are drastically restricting our way of life and our freedoms. I am therefore curious to see what Mr Heerma is thinking about when he reads that opinion and whether he agrees with me that this goes far beyond the intelligent lockdown of spring and is therefore undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u105	The reason I asked is that no one did, when all the people in this debate are asking if it is enough. Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver were very clear about this: is there not too much target of 0.9 and should it not go on? All the questions about the mouth caps have been asked, but the OMT specifically mentioned that curfew. It was part of a package in Antwerp with which there were great results within three weeks. I'm not pleading for curfew. Since the OMT has advised it, I think that the question should be asked here, not because I would argue for it, but because we also need to keep our finger on the pulse for the next week and weeks to prevent us from finding that it has not been enough in three weeks and that you may end up in a full lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u106	Also for you, Mr. Wilders, the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u107	I also refer to the word "curfew." Surely it is not the case that the CDA is now going to argue in favour of this, and you have not done so before tomorrow, in order to set a curfew the day after tomorrow? With the catering industry closed at 10 p.m. companies are already going bankrupt, but a curfew for the whole of the Netherlands? The OMT didn't say that either. This morning I think it was the Volkskrant that the OMT wants two things: it wants to consider a curfew, after 23:00 or 24:00, and it wants a national duty to wear mouth caps. Well, I don't know if we should want to live in a country where the government decides what to wear and when to leave the house. But what does the OMT add to that? I quote: "In the models it adds very little. But if you want to scrape all the bits, you also have to choose for this." It doesn't just disrupt half the Netherlands, it doesn't pay off. It's symbolic politics. Then seriously invest in care, make sure there are enough beds, make sure there's enough test material, make a ventilation plan. That will make the Netherlands better. But symbolic policy to keep everyone in, a duty of silence and so on: you don't think that the CDA wants to go that way, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u108	You indicated at the beginning of your question that I am not in favour of that. The fact is that this debate is to a large extent about whether it is sufficient to prevent a lockdown. Mr Wilders quotes a newspaper, but I think you can read in the OMT opinion that a form of curfew is being considered as additional. The masks are precisely mentioned in a context of "regional only." I believe that, like many people here, I am in favour of giving this urgent opinion on clarity nationwide and going beyond what the OMT has written so far, because it is a matter of division. In a debate in which the question is whether it is sufficient, I think that the following questions should be asked: what does the OMT mean by this, how does the cabinet look at it and is it in theory something that might be needed as in Antwerp, in order to prevent a complete lockdown? I am not in any way in favour of that being done now; so is Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is behind the facts. It has ignored signs of ascending corona infections and really intervenes too late. Why have these measures not already been implemented last week and why is the cabinet not following all the OMT's advice? That gives little confidence for the next few months. The urgency really has to go back to the public and this cabinet plays a crucial role in this. It has already been mentioned: Germany and Ireland are working with a very clear framework of measures. We adopted a D66 motion on that last week. In the case of a certain number of infections, a specific measure will enter into force. Everyone will know where he is, feel the responsibility and make sure it happens. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS also wants to see this ambition in the cabinet. We can no longer muddle. We really need to act now. As far as we're concerned, the soap around the mouth caps characterizes what's going on right now. Yesterday, the cabinet advised the retail trade in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague to let customers wear masks. The mayor of Amsterdam gave the urgent advice to wear the masks in public courtyards. That's confusing. Why isn't that aligned? And why does the cabinet place the responsibility on shopkeepers? Supermarkets and HEMA have already said: we are not going to do that at all. A minister will see that coming, won't he? The call for the wearing of mouth caps is increasing. Now we have to wait another week for the OMT's advice. Why polder over mouth caps? Why go after the facts for the umpteenth time? Take the position and introduce a national oral cap. As far as we are concerned, the time is right. As colleagues have already said, the advice has been given to wear surgical mouth caps in nursing homes in large cities. The OMT doesn't think that goes far enough and advises to do that nationwide. Then why is that advice not being followed? Why wait until things get out of hand in other regions? It's like nursing homes are in second grade. They didn't even mention nursing homes at the press conference yesterday. Nursing homes are not represented in the weekly consultation with the Minister and the healthcare sector. Why not? Then who's in the meeting? We've submitted written questions about ventilation in nursing homes. We have little faith in the standard answer: yes, ActiZ is working on it. The importance of ventilation in the control of the virus is stressed each time. So how far is ActiZ with that checkup? Because once again, the nursing homes seem to be disadvantaged. I told you, nursing homes are still in second grade, but for home care, the stage is completely out of sight. I do not read in the letter about additional measures for home care and domestic help. Shouldn't they also wear surgical mouth masks? Mr. Chairman. There are many other healthcare professions that are completely ignored. We cannot and must not let that happen. They all come into contact with vulnerable people too. I just want to get a very clear answer from this Minister today. I read the phrase in the NRC: the economy is also in intensive care. Then you shouldn't be obsessing on a support and recovery package. Does the Cabinet agree with us? It is good that our motion on the prevention of corona in the work situation and at home work has been adopted, and we are looking forward to its concrete impact, but I also call for protection and enhanced enforcement for those who are unable to work at home and who are still in unsafe work situations. Can that be promised? I have a few more questions. On October 6th is the kick-off of a period in which we would dwell together on the grief of the coronavirus. We think that is important and we would have tabled a motion for a resolution, but is this the right time? Because the second wave seems to reappear. So I'd like to hear how the cabinet looks at that. It is good that the population survey has been restarted. What's the status of that? The Prime Minister had a discussion with the elderly at the Catshuis at our request last week, following our motion. Is there anything the Prime Minister can share with us about this? I would also like to mention the message that we received from someone who lives near The Hague. He's been working on a test for a week. Eventually, it could be in Goes, over an hour and a half. How's the testing going? What's the status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u111	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr. Chairman. On Monday, the Prime Minister said that the pain should be shared fairly. And we've been in solidarity for the past six months. People with cancer and heart problems were united and stepped aside because the ic-beds flooded. People in the cultural sector and entrepreneurs were united and closed to stop the spread of the virus. Young people showed solidarity and withdrew to their dorm rooms with their laptops to bring down the reproduction number. But we now know that the virus is very venomous, but with an IFR of 0.24% similar to a heavy flu. The Nivel stations haven't been showing COVID-19 for weeks. This should lead to a rethinking of the measures. That is why there are a number of questions. Wouldn't it be better to reverse the measures and ask our elderly and vulnerable to voluntarily keep their distance? Isn't it better to steer at square meters per person than at a gross limit of 30 people? Why do people still have to wait five days for a test results? Why isn't better ventilation being done? What's the status of better tests, like the antigen test? In 2015 we had 2,200 ic-beds. Why hasn't they scaled up by now? Why is COVID-19 still on the A list of infectious diseases? Mr. Chairman. The number of infections, the reproductive number and all society disrupting measures are based on positive PCR tests, while we know that the PCR test does not show contamination. Even the RIVM confirms this. How reliable is the reproduction number now based on positive PCR tests? Several professors warn of the high number of error positives in low prevalence, sometimes up to 90% error positive. Why don't we do additional clinical trials in a positive test? Why don't we do a second test, a blood test or a lung photo to rule out a catastrophic PCR error? I've already asked for an independent investigation and also for validation. I really do not understand why the cabinet is not open to removing this uncertainty. I would therefore like to retable my motion on this matter today. Mr. Chairman. Solidarity cannot continue to be asked if the sacrifice is unreasonable. The current measures are unreasonable for large groups of our population. For six months now, we have been asking for great sacrifices from people with other diseases, students, entrepreneurs and also people in care. I believe that now is the time to call for solidarity from the elderly and the vulnerable, so that the rest of society can move forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u113	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr. Chairman. It is now over six months since the corona measures were introduced, a six-month period in which all Dutch people were severely restricted. We can no longer go and stand where, when and with whom we want. Hard-working entrepreneurs see companies that they've built slide to the abyss. It hits everyone, every day. At first, an overwhelming majority of the Netherlands could still understand this. After all, we were dealing with an unknown virus and there was a lot of uncertainty about the severity and impact of that virus. We were also totally unprepared for an outbreak because of the government's lax attitude. But support for the policy is crumbling. That is understandable, because fortunately the situation today is very different from that in March. We have increased ic capacity, the shortages of protective equipment are being resolved and we have learned much more about the virus and the effectiveness of the measures. For example, it has been shown that the virus is highly dispersed through microdrops that move through the air in meters and can continue to float for hours, and not.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It also appears that the virus is significantly less dangerous than previously said. Not 3.6% of the infected are killed, but estimated to be around 0.2%. We are talking about 0.24%. That's quite a difference. The average age of the deceased is well over 80 years and almost only people with underlying diseases die. According to CBS, the average age in men is 79.6 years and in women is 83.4 years. As horrible as every ic-recording and every death is for the victims and next of kin, we can conclude that the coronavirus is not the cold virus that was thought. It raises the question of whether the current measures are sufficiently effective and proportionate. Can we not protect vulnerable groups and prevent their healthcare capacity from overloading without closing down the entire society? In May, I filed a motion to investigate alternatives to one-and-a-half-metre society. In particular, I pointed to the possibility of a reverse lockdown. In short, not all 17 million Dutch people are subject to radical measures, but specific measures are taken to protect vulnerable groups. The government dissuaded this motion, referring to mysterious advice from doctors and virologists. However, it is now clear that the medical world is also questioning the current measures, not a single quack, but many thousands of doctors and virologists from the Netherlands and abroad. They argue for a radically different policy. Has the Minister taken note of the call from more than 1,400 medics who, in an open letter of 17 September, plead for a reverse lockdown? Does the Minister recognise that the PCR test is so unreliable that 37% of the people tested positive are probably not infected at all? Then why is there structural talk of infections rather than positive tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u115	Mr Hiddema, before you continue, Mr Segers has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u116	In the debate on how to deal with the corona crisis, the Forum for Democracy first said that we should be in a huge lockdown: it is dramatic what is happening. At that time, it was "the virus," and that is the tone that is still on display today. "It's not so bad with the virus, so take it easy with those measures." The measure is then the number of deaths. At least, if I have heard Mr Hiddema correctly, that is the criterion on which it is felt how serious it is. If it turns out that lung damage, heart damage and brain damage are much more serious than we thought at first, even in the case of a mild infection, so people don't die from it, but do they have permanent damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u117	Well, Forum for Democracy doesn't have the medical truth in store. I just want to talk to you about authoritative medics. I would like to draw up a Forum position on this, and I am working on it now. I was at Mr. Van Dissel's briefing yesterday. Unfortunately, at the time, I did not have the medical reports that I will be discussing, but they support my argument, with the same figures as I have mentioned so far. Does Forum now think that additional damage effects in which this virus plays a role but are being taken on sale? No. Those 1,400 doctors will have taken that piece for their judgment, too. But I'm still not ready to hold the verdict of these doctors to your Chamber. That's what I'm gonna do. But we don't stick our heads in the sand. We are not going to look at any quacks or casual passers-by without any medical training or without any insight into microbiology, statistics or anything else via the image tube to be able to afford to judge this virus. I don't want anything to do with that. And neither is Forum, I can report you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u118	Again. You say the number of deaths isn't so bad, if that's a problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u119	I'm not saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u120	Maybe I can ask my question. Insofar as it is a problem, this must be solved by the need for the elderly to distance themselves from young people. Older people have to stay away from the rest of society. My question is this. More and more research has been done and there is increasing clarity that the long-term effect of the virus, including in people who survive, is permanent damage to lungs, heart and brain. Is that a fact that Forum says: okay, then we need to think again about these measures and then perhaps the seriousness is such that we need to take these measures? Or does Forum still say: it's not that bad, slow down, not that crazy, we just go on with our lives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u121	Well, no, Forum acts like a businessman. Forum evaluates the immense disadvantages, also psychologically. They don't lie about it. This debate, I think, and endless television broadcasts with pseudo-experts or real experts spread some kind of smear virus all over the country. That's what these doctors are warning you about. Our immune system is in danger of being undermined by very nervous people who do nothing but polish their bodies. It's a serious warning. In this sense, Forum has a very broad view of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u123	But it's gonna turn out to be. It's too bad I got these reports, which I just... I will talk about an article that appeared in HP/De Tijd on the twentieth of this month. Those 1,400 doctors published some kind of open letter on September 17th. That's exactly what I'm talking about. From that point of view, taking into account what Forum did say in my motion at the time, I thought in May I wonder if a smarter lockdown would not be wiser. Today I also read a, I don't want to say "heartbreaking," yet significant and impressive article by Leon de Winter in De Telegraaf. He may not be a virologist, he may not be a microbiologist, he may not be a statistician, but his article does make him think. Maybe we should go that way. We're still looking in a glass ball. We cannot combat or control the effects of this virus by imposing an unlimited coercive regime on our people. We will have to maintain, in a way, an economic survival perspective for the people. There's no getting away from that. Soon the whole Schiermonnikoog will be forced to walk with masks. Do we have to do all that? You can't do that, can you? You have to use your mind. I have the verdict of 1,700 doctors here. I'll get to that. But then there's something else. Recognizes the Minister that the PCR test is so unreliable that 37% of the people tested positive... Oh, I've had that. Does the Minister recognise that excessive hygiene measures can actually weaken our immune system? It's in the report of three medics. What does that mean for our resistance to the annual seasonal flu? Then there is a question that has been asked more often, but which I have still not received an adequate answer to. How does the Minister explain that, in countries such as Sweden, the virus does not spread more quickly without protective measures and excessive hygiene measures than in countries where the strictest lockdown measures have been introduced? Usually you hear: that is a wild country with all lakes and forests; there is much more space between people. No, it's not. It's in that rural situation that you don't meet a lot of people. They're sitting there just like they are here on a bunny. They don't have mouth caps and the numbers are no more dramatic than ours. Then you ask yourself that question, don't you? Apparently, that's how it's gonna work. Shouldn't we go that way, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u124	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u125	Why doesn't the government want to investigate whether we're better off protecting only those who need it and releasing the rest of the population in their movement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u126	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u127	Madam President. I would like to answer three questions. First of all, what's going well? Secondly, what could be better? Thirdly, what am I worried about? First of all, what's going well? The urgency is great. It was communicated very clearly at the press conference. Thank you for that. There is also a good combination of coherent measures that indicate how we can reduce the groups in which we are located and reduce the number of contact moments. That's good, too. I also welcome the fact that the cabinet is taking a serious look at the Red Team's advice, listening so well to some counter-information and letting it work in itself. Secondly, what could be better? The cabinet sends a reproduction factor of 0.9. That's on the tight side. That's what members of the OMT say. Then you're really at the top. Shouldn't we take more margin? Shouldn't we take a safer number? We've been above one for weeks. So there's been cause for concern for weeks. Then the masks. A lot has been said about that. I think we should make the precautionary principle more important. This means encouraging the use of mouth caps, not only in retail but in all public indoor areas and perhaps also in secondary schools. That is also the opinion of the ECDC, or ACDC, as Mr Klaver said; that reminds me of a band from my youth. The ECDC says that in many places, the 1.5 meters are not easy to live by. At this point there is therefore a moving insight. The same is true of members of the OMT. Then there is another question from my colleague Carla Dik about the opinion of the World Health Organisation from April 2020, that is to say this year. That question was asked last week. The advice was to allow people in care, including cleaning staff and care staff, to use protective equipment at a distance of more than 1.5 metres. There would be a reaction from the cabinet to that. That's what I'm waiting for. If we are going to encourage the use of masks, it is important that everyone has access to them and that everyone can buy them. There are also people with a narrow scholarship. Isn't it a good idea, as I suggest to the cabinet, to add mouth caps to the packages at the food bank? In this way, people from disadvantaged areas can also make use of it. Especially in places like markets, where the 1.5 meter is difficult to maintain, they can wear a mouth cap. Mr. Chairman. We must continue to focus on increasing test capacity and on source and contact research. Quick tests also have a place in it. We see elsewhere in the world that there are many experiences with rapid tests, with 100% certainty in negative results and a small part falsely positive. With follow-up research, rapid testing helps very much. The regional approach for large cities has never really got off the ground. We can determine that. Mayors look at the cabinet a lot. It is good that the direction is now taken nationwide, but the toolbox should be available for local drivers when scaling up. But what's in there? Then it is important that we communicate honestly, clearly and transparently. I come to the escalation ladder which Mr Marijnissen referred to and on which Mr Jetten tabled a motion last week. We really need to be clear about what happens if it doesn't work after three weeks and if we don't have that 0.9. What measures are we going to take? I'd like a response to that. For my part, an encouragement to work on that. I would also like clarity on the subject of ecclesiastical weddings and funerals. There are a lot of questions about that. So please clarify this in this debate. Finally, Madam President, what do I have to worry about? I have concerns about the independent advice of the OMT. It's under pressure. We must be careful not to politicise expert advice and discredit it. This damages public institutions like RIVM, but it also undermines the approach. We must therefore continue to communicate clearly about the basis for action and, if necessary, make it clear that we are moving forward. As far as I'm concerned, we don't involve behavioral experts enough. The advice of the OMT is very medical. That is very understandable, but we have often said in debates, even in the spring, that you may have to put other people next to it, for example behavioral experts. You can also see in the World Health Organisation that the advice is much wider than just medical. Then the supply of protective equipment. The iron supply is now ten weeks. Isn't that too little? Do we not need more stock if we are to use more preventive protective equipment in the care of the elderly? Finally, Madam President. The care should be able to handle it. That's what the cabinet keeps saying. I understand that, but shouldn't we just say that the care person should be able to handle it? Isn't that the focus that comes first? We might be able to technically arrange 700 ICU sites, but can the staff handle it? Research among the staff shows that 80% is against a second wave and 30% is suffering from anxiety. In other words, the staff is under pressure. And are they not the measure? At the very end, Madam President, I agree with a question put by Mr Dijkhoff. What is the impact on business? The measures are increasing, but the aid is being reduced. Shouldn't we be looking at that again over the next three weeks, and perhaps after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u128	Last question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr Segers was right to ask about the stocks of protective equipment. We know the Christian Union as a party and Mr Segers as someone who really cares for the elderly and nursing care in particular. That's what this place's been about a lot. My question is therefore for Mr Segers: does he not think it is very risky, if not incomprehensible, that the cabinet is not taking over that part of the OMT opinion, namely that part about the direct protective means for our caregivers in the nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u130	That was Mr Dik's question last week. The World Health Organisation's opinion was already there in April 2020. That said: care workers and cleaning staff need protective equipment, even if the 1.5 meter is maintained. For us then the question was: what was done about it? We'll get the answer to that. So, yes, I would rather take the safe side and use those resources preventively. Hence my question about the iron stock. Is a ten-week supply enough and shouldn't we increase our stock?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u132	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u133	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u134	Madam President. Walking over a balance bar isn't easy. Before you know it, you're gonna step next to it. I had to think about that, because that is actually what the cabinet is asking for. Too few measures can damage health and hit vulnerable people hard. But taking too many measures also causes damage. So it's actually just a very narrow path that you can walk on. How can you hit the virus as accurately as possible with as little damage as possible to everything that makes our living together valuable? It's easy to criticize if you have the idea that things are going wrong, isn't too little being done or isn't too much being done? But it poses very difficult dilemmas for everyone: what is wisdom in this? At the moment, we are convinced that the proposed tightening of the corona rules is painful for all kinds of people, including entrepreneurs, but also, unfortunately, at a time when the infections, but also hospitalisations and outbreaks in nursing homes, are simply rising too quickly. It is good that the cabinet has repeatedly stressed that the fight against the virus starts with the responsibility of everyone. That awareness of responsibility must always be fed up with good communication. I ask again what additional blow the cabinet is going to make in that. As far as the measures themselves are concerned, we are in favour of this and, in fact, this also sounds broad in all the contributions made by the Commission that they are always as predictable and as follow-up as possible, because that also helps with that support. Fortunately, this is the case for a number of measures, but sometimes you also run into things you say: it really needs to be better here. Take the measures around weddings. I got an e-mail from a couple in Zeeland hoping to get married in a few weeks. Long adjusted and weighed, eventually they decided to let it continue. Zeeland did and does it relatively well and there was regional customization, but on Monday there are suddenly national measures and the number of guests, if understood correctly, seems to be reduced to four. Well, even in the intelligent lockdown of spring, it wasn't that strict. Last night, moreover, it appeared that, if that is true, a maximum of 30 persons applies to civil marriage. But what exactly is the situation with the rest of the guests, even in halls, or that may add up to some of 30 or not, that is unclear. It seems to be a small point, and it is, but it does affect people and it gives a lot of uncertainty in hall centres and in people themselves. You also run into that point of predictability. As long as you know what you can take into account if the situation deteriorates and if there are more infections. That brings me to the point that has already been made in Mr Jetten's motion and by others: should you not now give much more clarity as to what steps the cabinet is taking in one week or three weeks' time, if the situation is moving in the right direction or if the situation is getting worse? What are the conditions under which customisation can be applied, so that differences between and within regions can be addressed? Shouldn't the source and contact research be in order before you can think about a more fine-meshed approach? Mr. Chairman. Inimitable government policy is now also in the area of mouth caps. There have been numerous calls in this Chamber for nationwide preventive use of personal protective equipment in nursing homes for months. The OMT also advises this now. Why is it that the cabinet is not dealing with this as soon as possible, especially when you are aware of the objective of protecting vulnerable elderly people? Can the cabinet at least promise that the national stock will be made available to nursing homes, wherever in the Netherlands, who want to proceed to preventive use of mouth caps? The cabinet is now again asking the OMT for advice on the use of non-medical mouth masks in public space, but a number of well-balanced advice has already been given. Shouldn't we just have a tricky knot cut here? We too, like all the groups, have asked ourselves what we would like to advocate. When we read the advice, we get the impression that it makes sense, just now that the virus is alive, to have a clear advice to wear a mouth cap in crowded areas such as shops or other crowded indoor areas. Couldn't that also belong to good handling in virus time? I therefore also call for advice and not for a legal obligation. Mr. Chairman. I see my time is up. Then let me just compliment you on the curfew we have set in this house...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u135	Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u136	...that there will be no more debates here after 11:00 in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u137	We'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u138	A good night's sleep is also very important for the control of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u139	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u141	Good signal, too. Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr. Chairman. "It looks like a war situation. We could never have imagined this." That's what the internist Heijckmann of the Bernhoven hospital in Uden said on 20 March 2020. We know one thing for sure: never again. For the cabinet, therefore, with 3,000 infections a day there is nothing more to do than intervene. We need to get control of the virus to protect our health, our economy and our freedom. But we must also keep a close eye on how we act. D66 wants to prevent a new intelligent lockdown as much as possible. Much rather we look at what can be, at intelligent freedom. That starts with meeting the commitments made. How many fines have actually been issued in The Hague, Rotterdam and Amsterdam over the last three weeks? Adequate enforcement monitors the sense of justice and prevents a vicious circle of increasingly stringent measures. The freedom of one must not be at the expense of the other. The main victims of the new measures, sport, culture and events, must also receive good support in the coming weeks. I ask the cabinet on the basis of which criteria mayors can quickly grant exemptions to cultural institutions. Intelligent freedom also requires clarity about the use of mouth caps. It's been a lot today. As far as D66 is concerned, you cannot shift that responsibility to shopkeepers, because they already have enough on their mind. I therefore ask the Cabinet, following many parties, whether it is not wise to come up with one national opinion so that it can also be communicated clearly. I'm just saying that D66 is open to the advice of wearing masks in crowded places in buildings where 1.5 metres away is difficult, such as in supermarkets and public buildings. Not because wearing such a mouth cap is nice, but because it might help guard our freedoms. How does the cabinet view the use of mouth caps in schools and educational institutions if this can lead to more physical education? Why hasn't the OMT's advice been taken to use medical masks in all nursing homes? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Now that we are in a second corona wave and once again have strict measures, it is necessary for the cabinet to show clear leadership. We don't have time for squabbling between boards and confusion in advisory bodies, because the virus doesn't care about that. Clear communication is therefore indispensable. I, like many of my colleagues who have spoken before me, have received many questions from people who no longer understand why these choices are being made. They lack the basis for certain measures. That is why I ask the cabinet: explain the Netherlands clearly and take us with you. What is the expected impact of the new measures? What dilemmas have played a role in this? When will the Roadmap be ready so that we can see exactly which fixed set of measures can be put in place for each alert phase or possibly be reduced again? I know that the cabinet has been working on it since the adoption of that motion, but I would like to hear when we can also see that roadmap. Mr. Chairman. A little like Mr Van der Staaij, I am warning you about the moment when the cabinet looks too much at the corona crisis through a close lens. Of course, public health is paramount, but this crisis also requires a broader perspective. Can the Cabinet make it clear what impact the measures have on our regular care, on education, on development, on work, on social contacts and on our lifestyle? Finally, Mr President. 20 March 2020 we no longer want to experience this war situation in hospitals in the south of the country. We don't want to go back to the time of delayed surgeries, closed nursing homes and a bummering youth care. If things are going in the wrong direction in the next few weeks, then we must be prepared for the worst. Therefore, a few questions to the cabinet. Are we sure that the regular care in such a second wave won't be on a lower pitch? And specifically for the intensive cares: what is going to happen if our ic's are overcrowded while the script for code black isn't final yet? I would like to know from the cabinet how we ensure that the doctors who find themselves in this difficult situation also have political backing with clear rules of play. Finally, Mr President. It is important that we all stick to the rules in the next few weeks, so that we can regain control of the virus. But let us also not lose sight of the perspective of freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u143	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Together we do not control the coronavirus, partly because groups of Dutch people do not follow the rules, but also partly because the approach by the cabinet is not good enough. Crisis management calls for leadership, for courage, for measures that are effective and that are respected. And she's also asking for clear communication. We have actually arrived for the umpteenth time at an important point in tackling this virus. Every time we have the debate on this, we say to each other: we are at an important point. But we're getting really hard with our sniffs printed on the facts. There are 40 times more infections than we had in the summer. In the last week, there were 19,000 infections. The estimated number of infected Dutch: 1 in 120, compared to 1 in 10,000. In 100 schools, students are infected. In 150 nursing homes, residents are infected. This is about our vulnerable elderly; I am holding my heart. We've been waiting seven months for the Corona Law. How's that necessary corona app coming along? How does this app contribute to fighting the coronavirus? And are fundamental fundamental rights still guaranteed? Can we guarantee that the privacy of the users is not violated? Mr. Chairman. We are now told that regular care will be scaled down because we already have 660 COVID-19 patients in hospital and 160 in intensive care. The National Coordination Center Patient Spread has been reactivated for a week. How do we prevent a nightmare that will occur before our eyes? Because we're in the middle of that second wave, actually just like a lot of experts predicted. They said, "In autumn." In August we had a doubling of the number of infections, but that was not alarming enough for the cabinet, while we know damn well that infections work exponentially. Any Dutchman who wants can be tested, said Hugo de Jonge in May. Testing, testing, testing. I don't know if he meant: you have to call long to be tested, you have to travel long to be tested and you have to wait a long time for the results of the tests. He didn't say that, but that's the practice. And the source and contact research is just not good enough. The idea was good: testing as many people as possible with complaints, tracking the people they've been in contact with, testing them, and quarantined. "Extinct," said the Minister. But because there is too much time between complaints and test results, the source and contact research is worthless, hopeless. In the fireplaces Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam the capacity was scaled down weeks ago. And from that moment on, we've been chasing the facts, too. We still test relatively as much as in Germany, but far too slowly. And that difference, that's crucial. Mr. Chairman. Why are Denmark and Germany doing so much better than we do here in the Netherlands? We also saw it yesterday at the briefing: when it comes to dealing with corona, we compare ourselves with the middle of Europe. We're doing it fairly well, but that's not ambition, is it? We can fight this much better, can't we? We're at the top when it comes to proactivity. We are at the top of the list of most competitive economies in Europe. We can not only do better, but we have to do better, especially because it is crucial for our health, our well-being and our entrepreneurs. This is about jobs. This is about whether we can pay the rent next month. This is about whether more people should line up at the food bank. This is about psych complaints from young people. This is about trust and security. Somehow it is not possible to convince enough Dutch people to follow the measures. Perhaps it would be an idea for the cabinet to consider perhaps taking a different approach to the crisis. Instead of choosing a medical approach, you could also opt for a behavioral psychological approach. You must not just say that the rules are not being respected, but you must ask yourself why that is not happening. My question to the ministers is: are behavioral experts and psychologists involved in communication and enforcement strategy? People aren't robots who carry out random assignments. In infectious diseases, behavior is an important determining factor. In the past, this has played a decisive role in combating the HIV and Ebola crisis. How can we learn from the fight against other infectious diseases here, but perhaps also in other countries? Mr. Chairman. The measures raise many questions. Are they now for three weeks as announced, or are they really going to take much longer, as I heard today? We're lucky to have it under control in three weeks. Are the rules now national or regional? Is that curfew coming or not? "Can I still get a haircut?', calls the one. Part of the OMT is dissatisfied with the OMT opinion. That would have been precooked, where some members could sign at the cross. There is uncertainty, and there is dissatisfaction. Finally, Mr President. It's crucial that we get the corona virus under control together. I wish the cabinet leadership and wisdom. As Dutch, we have to do better than we are doing right now. That is where this cabinet comes in with clear, well-founded measures, clear communication and an effective approach. All Dutch must follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u145	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr. Chairman. Now that the corona virus strikes everywhere, it immediately becomes apparent which country does have a good approach and which country does not. Unfortunately, what the course of the corona crisis has shown in a painful way is the underlying condition in the administration of the Netherlands. Minister Hugo de Jonge falls off his pedestal as far as we're concerned. In the fight against the virus, there is much less room for manoeuvre than the Hague policy is used to. Wrong assessments have huge consequences. The virus knows no kindness and mercy, to quote the words of Prime Minister Rutte. The Red Team's experts this morning painfully confirmed how Minister De Jonge missed all signals from the second wave this summer. As early as 22 July, the Red Team warned that the situation in Amsterdam was in danger of falling apart. The alarm signal was totally ignored. Precious time has been lost. Time to scale up the test capacity, bring the GGDs to full war strength, organize things well, develop a good plan for the use of mouth caps, develop a clear alert system for the population as in Ireland, and to communicate honestly and clearly. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Minister De Jonge thought he had it all under control this summer, packed his bags and left for the sun. What should happen now? The Minister has been relieved of many duties over the past week. We would advise him to hand over the stick to someone who can quickly get the case under control. Testing is a mess. From all over the country, we're getting reports of the chaos in making test appointments. People have to move heaven and earth for a test that can only be taken a few days later, and then they have to wait far too long for the results. Concentrate corona diseases in a number of specially equipped hospitals, so that regular care can take place elsewhere. And pay more attention to aerosols and ventilation. From now on, every minute counts. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u147	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-4.u148	I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we will vote first and then we will continue with the debate.
