ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the Code of Conduct Members of the Second Chamber of the States-General and the proposal for a regulation on supervision and enforcement of the Code of Conduct Members of the Second Chamber of the States-General, Section 35351, Nos. 1 and 5. The code of conduct and the arrangements for monitoring and enforcement have been submitted by the Bureau of the Chamber. I would like to welcome the President of the Bureau, Mrs Arib, and the Bureau members, Mrs Tellegen and Mrs Bergkamp. Welcome aboard. Of course, a warm welcome to the Members of Parliament and a warm welcome to the people who are following this debate in a different way. I suggest we get started. We agreed to ask four questions. It is up to you whether you ask the question in one go or two or three questions in a row. I am happy to give the floor first to Mr Markuszower, who will speak on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. In the aftermath of this Chamber period, just before the parties that have been serving for decades in the Netherlands are hopefully voted for a substantial part of this house by the electorate, just during the twilight of this Chamber period the elite are trying to strengthen its grip on power in the Netherlands. The code of conduct before us today must ensure that the authority and dignity of the Chamber are not undermined. In addition, the Bureau proposes a college that regulates the monitoring and enforcement of this code of conduct. On a proposal from the Bureau, a body of the Chamber in which the power parties are the main body, a college is chosen, a so-called independent college. That college will then be given the power to sanction MPs, to deprive them of the floor. Even in the so-called house of democracy, the parties of power want to restrict the free speech. Mr. Chairman. What are we supposed to do in the Netherlands? Not the Bureau, not some college, filled with puppets of power parties, not even MPs, no, the electorate determines whether and when the authority and dignity of the House of Representatives are compromised, and in criminal law the judge does so in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. A question from Mr Sneller. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr Markuszower's confidence in the judge here is heartwarming. But where does Mr Markuszower come from that college itself can impose sanctions? Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	Even sanctions? No. The college is all about business, isn't it? There's gonna be a college, filled...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	Okay, so if Mr. Markuszower...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	No, Mr Markuszower has the floor. It'll be right back with you, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	There's gonna be a class. Anyone could really be in there. They don't even have to be MPs. Anyone could be in there. And then they'll do a recitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. In addition, Mr Sneller. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Markuszower comes back to his words very quickly, because just a moment earlier in his speech he is talking about a college that imposes sanctions, and so he simply takes it back. The second question, then, is who will enter that college? Perhaps Mr Markuszower has good thoughts on what qualifications or what demands such people would have to meet, so that he can also make a constructive contribution to this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	Well, I'm not getting back to anything. Of course, that college is going to be everything, because that's the way it is. Then a lecture comes with a lecture, and then the Chamber goes along with it; that makes sense. It doesn't change the principle, either, because whether MPs want to silence their fellow chamber members, their competitors, on the recommendation of a college or even without a college... That principle, which I have just appointed, is not the Bureau, I write, not the College and not Members of Parliament, no, the electorate, I say, the electorate must decide who says what. And if someone breaks the law, then the judge has his measures. But not MPs, not college. And who should be in that class...? Because I would be obliged to make a constructive contribution here. I'm very constructive. My proposal is not to have a lecture. I don't have to look at people's qualifications. That is a compromise on a proposal which is essentially a very bad, undemocratic proposal. If I have to come up with names, profiles or qualifications for the members of the college, then I will join in the game of the power parties to shut up parties and MPs like ours. I'm not gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. Mr Sneller, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	That's not participating in a game at all, that's just accepting that there's a majority. During the debate on the estimate, where we had this debate earlier, the PVV was not present to have that discussion. This is the first time you've come with it. It was already on the voting list and, in my opinion, there was a large majority in this Chamber, at least among the Members present in that debate, who represented a large majority of the Chamber before it, so it is coming. And then the PVV can choose to put itself out of that discussion and not want to participate in it, but then I don't want to hear the PVV ever again about who is next in that lecture, because this is the time to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	It's true that it was hidden in some kind of debate about the estimate. Indeed, we woke up just in time and hammered it as it is called. Luckily, we can discuss that here now. I actually hope that today I can convince my fellow roommates not to vote in favour of this terribly bad proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	Your fourth question, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	We had a proper deal at the procedural meeting to deal with it there. The PVV chooses not to show up at a legislative consultation on the Court's budget. Mr Markuszower had nothing to do with it. So he shows off other people's feathers and he does wrong to the rules we agreed on here and the procedures we follow neatly if the PVV were to participate. This isn't about anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, absolutely not. It is not for nothing that I am the first speaker, I have asked for this debate. It is good that the VVD has also said at some point that this should be discussed in plenary. It is a good thing that we are discussing this in plenary rather than in a back room in this house, because everyone has to see what power parties like yours, like D66 here, are trying to do, namely silence, impose sanctions, unjustly destroying reputations of MPs who are simply elected by the people, where D66 is no longer worth the D of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	D66 doesn't seem to like democracy. Apparently, they don't want the people to choose who's saying what.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	They want the power parties to decide that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you. A question from Mrs Özütok. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr Markuszower outlined a situation as if the Review Board could impose sanctions on any statement made by a People's Representative. I'm sure you've read that it's really about misbehaviour of MPs. At present too, these abuses can usually be judged by their own groups, and then sanctions are imposed. Then what is the problem of setting out in a code of conduct and making it clear to everyone what the behaviour must be and establishing that abuses are subject to sanctions? I don't understand. Before a sanction comes into effect, something really precedes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	The representative of GroenLinks assumes good faith, that people who are not in that college or the representatives of the major power parties are all in good faith and are going to judge very honestly whether or not other MPs behave properly. First of all, it is not clear what good behavior is. Perhaps you find something very bad that I think is very good and the other way around. So that's arbitrary. In response to Mrs Özütok's comparison with the current sanctions by political groups, there is, of course, an internal dynamic that each group can agree with itself. But that is up to the political groups themselves and not to competing Members of Parliament. The proposal before us concerns competing Members of Parliament, who are therefore competing for the same seat, who have an interest in not saying everything in this Chamber, that other parties in this Chamber are not successful. There are only 150 seats here, so each seat of one party is at the expense of another. That's just how it works. So we're all actually competitors of each other. The power parties are meeting now: we're going to make a lecture. And if they're in bad faith... I assume that I am in bad faith; I tell you this very honestly. This whole proposal is in bad faith. I assume that there will be a negative competition and that the members of the College, the representatives of the Bureau or even the majority of this Chamber will make every effort to push other MPs out of here through such a college...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u26	...or make black, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you. For everyone: try to keep the questions and interruptions short and concise. The same applies to the answers. Mrs Özütok, your second question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u28	I will, Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Markuszower is reading all sorts of things in the code of conduct that are not there. My group is not afraid of setting up such a code of conduct and of having our behaviour checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you. I don't really hear a question, so I'll go to Mrs. Chicken's. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u30	For the Acts: I do not mind that Mr Markuszower is against a sanctioning college or against sanctions, but Mr Martin Bosma of his group is one of the most important Vice-Presidents of this House. He's at the Bureau. I happen to have been at the Bureau myself. He's not mouth-dead. So let's face it: you don't have to agree with the decision that comes out, but it's not like the PVV doesn't play a role in the organisation of the Chamber. That is by no means the case. I hope that Mr Markuszower will also acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u31	I acknowledge that the Bureau is ultimately composed of representatives of the House of Representatives. But the majority in that Bureau we are just before the elections, so it is not at all clear whether the parties that set this up now will have the majority of them trying to do something right now, namely rule over the grave. The present Bureau is now proposing a code of conduct which will have an effect after this period, if these parties no longer have the majority. In theory, the minority here will soon be able to silence the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u32	That wasn't my point. You can find what you find. Soon we will be able to vote; I can give you that. But I am getting a little tired of you pretending that you are not part of this Chamber and that you do not have a vote in the Chamber, because that is by no means the case. Your partymate, Mr Bosma, sits here at least once a day. He's got a really big finger in the porridge and finds everything. I do not know how that goes in the Bureau, but do not pretend that you are not part of the same chamber. That's my call. Let us just continue to discuss whether we want such a sanction college and whether the sanctions are perhaps too high. That is part of the debate, but don't pretend you're not part of the same blue chairs we're all in. I'd really like that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you. Mr. Markuszower, I'd like to ask you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u34	I don't think I'm acting like I'm not part of it at all. I'm standing right here, aren't I? I'm standing right here, aren't I? I'm here, aren't I? I'm saying something here, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u35	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u36	I don't quite understand the point, but it must be so intelligent that I have to think about it for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u37	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u38	The electorate shall decide who is to sit in the Chamber, who is to represent his or her interests in the Chamber, and the electorate shall decide whether that is to be done in the right way. Maybe the power parties don't like to hear this, but you here don't decide who represents the interests of the voters and how to do it. That's up to the voter himself. Maybe the power parties don't like hearing this, but MPs aren't employees. I say to Mrs Kuik: we are not an organization. We're not an organization. We're not employees of the Chamber. The MPs don't work for the Chamber. Members of parliament work for the Dutch and not for the Bureau. They do not work, as I say with all due respect, for you, Madam President. They also do not work for the power parties or a college filled with exponents of those power parties. The people choose the MPs. The people decide who may be MPs and the people decide what the composition of the House of Representatives should look like. And if the criminal court rules that someone is not allowed to participate, then the criminal court decides. It may sound innocent to some. It will even be presented by many here, Mrs Özütok, as something noble and as something completely logical: "Good behavior can't hurt? That is something we must all strive for, isn't it? Surely MPs should set an example?" I assume that today will be the spider of the day. That will be the so-called frame, but the truth is really different. The truth is that this code of conduct is the newest instrument of the power-hungry parties to smother other sounds, for example the sounds of the ordinary Dutch, the so-called vox populi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u39	There is a question from Mr Van der Molen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u40	I recently had a whole discussion with Mr Markuszower at a committee meeting. Perhaps Mr Markuszower remembers that. Mr Markuszower took the view that Jewish Dutch people had to blame themselves for the discrimination, persecution and nuisance in the streets because they happened to vote for the wrong parties. I thought that was a terrible statement, because you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u41	Sure, because you misquote me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u42	No, no, no, Mr Markuszower, Mr Van der Molen has the floor. We are having a proper debate here, and that goes through the President. Mr Van der Molen is finishing the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u43	I was angry about that in that committee, but I will never say that Mr Markuszower cannot say that in the Chamber. I agree with Mr Markuszower that any Member of Parliament can say what he wants. But I would like to make a comment, because you have the impression that this code of conduct is about what we are saying here. Our opinion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u44	The question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u45	I would like to know from Mr Markuszower whether he is reading this arrangement, because that is not the case at all. It's about behavior, not sticking to the rules of integrity, but not about the opinion of Mr Markuszower or me. Does he read that arrangement like that or does he have a completely different view of reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u46	One: it is great that I can say this from Mr Van der Molen of the CDA. The quote he just presented to me lacks the nuance and finesse of the way I said it. As you quot me, therefore, is actually a misquote. You can read the Acts. It just misses the final touch of someone who knows what anti-Semitism is in his DNA for 2,000 years, how to do something about it and how to do something about it as a Jewish person. So it's just missing the finesse, but I can't blame Mr Van der Molen for that. I think it is wonderful that Mr Van der Molen allowed me to say that, but it is not clear to me whether I can still say that of Mr Van der Molen after we have agreed to the code of conduct. He's nodding now. I am very grateful that I may, but perhaps Mr Van der Molen will change his mind and I will not be able to say it again. I can't guarantee that. Again, everyone here assumes good faith. That's a very nice trait, but I'm a lawyer from home and you have to assume sometimes the situation is different from how you did it in your good intentions. How it stands, I can't read it any other way. That was the question, rather than that there is room for that committee to take it very widely and that indeed other things, which we all now say do not fall within the scope of it at all, may suddenly fall within the scope of it in two or three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you. Mr Van der Molen has waived a follow-up question. So you'll continue your argument. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u48	Democracy is a great good thing, but too much democracy seems to scare many parties here; I say that to D66. If a majority of Dutch people say by referendum that they do not want more but less EU, what does this Chamber do? We'll get more EU. If the Netherlands says by referendum that it does not want to conclude a treaty with Ukraine, then what does this Chamber do? However, to conclude a treaty with Ukraine and D66 will soon end the entire referendum. And if the majority of the Netherlands have been of the opinion for more than 100 and so many years now that the States-General should represent the Dutch people and we Dutch people who have properly enshrined the rights and duties of MPs in the Constitution and other laws, and if it turns out that the power parties find that it can be detrimental to them if the interests of all Dutch people here in this house are protected, then what do these power parties do? They then try to silence Members of Parliament by means of a code of conduct, so that the interests of those Dutch people are no longer properly represented. If you can't beat them, if you can't beat us by the agreed rules of the game, then you just change the rules of the game, right? At least, as it turns out, the idea of the power parties here. If the parties of power are afraid that the voters will hear the arguments and views of the parties such as ours, for example, but it may also be another party tomorrow, then you will simply shut up the parties like ours, then you will ensure that you can intervene as soon as your political competitor becomes too big or threatens to become too big? These will be the effects of this code of conduct. The PVV will therefore vote against this regulation with conviction and calls on all those in this house who still respect democracy to do the same. We say, "Get rid of this worthless proposal, get rid of this code of conduct." The PVV will not only vote against it with conviction, but also says: if this arrangement is adopted, we as PVVs will not participate collectively. We will not be silenced by a college, the Bureau, MPs or whatever. We will not cooperate with the procedures described. We're not crazy stallions. You may think so, but we don't think so. We are representatives of the people, who know our rights very well. Apart from the above-mentioned objections, this regulation is also completely superfluous. Members of parliament have already fulfilled the obligations imposed on them by the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the oath or the promise and other laws, even the Code of Criminal Law. Those duties are there, but Members of Parliament also enjoy rights, of course. These rights are potentially restricted by this code of conduct and its enforcement. In this respect, this code of conduct, and its enforcement, may be unconstitutional. I therefore do not understand, as I say to Mr Bishop of the SGP, why he is tabling an amendment that weakens it slightly. Why does Mr Bishop not vote against later, is a question I am proactively asking. I see that Mr Bishop is already walking to the interrupting microphone. So I ask him: why does Mr Bishop not vote against this code of conduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr. Markuszower, you are engaged in your input into this debate. I give Mr Bishop the opportunity to ask a question. If you have any questions for Mr Bishop, then you know the arrangements in this house. Can I now give the floor to Mr Bishop to put his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u50	I look forward to the interruption of Mr Markuszower later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u51	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u52	I hear a glowing speech in which Mr Markuszower states that he will not comply with the agreed rules. That's a bit disappointing to me, this anarchist approach almost reminds me of Antifa from a party that usually stands for law-and-order. Anyway, what is the code of conduct about? There was a lot of confusion just now. Perhaps it will take away a great deal of confusion if I name the rules as they are in the code of conduct: "The MP shall perform his duties in independence and in the general interest. The MP shall not accept any gift or favour intended to influence his or her actions in the office. The MP shall comply with the registration obligations imposed on him by the office. The member of parliament shall not use information obtained in office for personal interests and shall, where appropriate, ensure that it is confidential. The Member of Parliament shall act in accordance with the rules of the Chamber." This doesn't give you room to shut up a colleague's politics, does it? Mr Markuszower will be able to make exactly the same speech in committee to Mr Van der Molen when he has just made or when he has held? I would like to suggest that you take this code of conduct into account. What matters is its enforcement and its application, and I would like to have the discussion on this because we believe that it is indeed a step too far on a few points...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u54	... but in itself this is entirely within the constitutional paths.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u55	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u58	I've made it as short as I can, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yes! It's up to me to guard the order a little bit. Mr. Markuszower, please respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u60	There were two parts of the question. First of all, Mr Bishop does not have to worry that the PVV suddenly becomes a member of those terrible Antifa people. Of course, we do not have anything to do with that; Mr Bishop knows that very well indeed. We are a party of law-and-order and we also believe that everyone in the Netherlands is obliged to comply with the law. And that is precisely the problem with monitoring and enforcing this code of conduct, which is not only contrary to the Constitution, but also contrary to the principle of legality, which I shall come back to later. It's completely unclear. Mr Bishop himself mentioned that provision 5: the Member of Parliament acts in accordance with the rules of the Chamber. That is, of course, an open end. I shall come back to that later in my speech, so perhaps we can wait and see. If Mr Bishop then thinks that I have not answered it correctly, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yes. Maybe it's a good idea for you to move on with your input. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u62	In addition, in addition to the constitutional objection, this regulation runs counter to the principle of legality. After all, no offence is punishable only by the effect of the preceding legal provision. If the Chamber agrees to the code of conduct and its enforcement, Members of Parliament will soon be punished on the basis of an arbitrary judgment of a college composed of pull-dolls and rulers of the power parties. This scheme and its enforcement also run counter to the principle of legal certainty. It is entirely subjective and purely arbitrariness-based when, or and how, the setters and pulldolls in the next appointed College of Members of Parliament will sanction. Soon only a handful of mannequins and rulers of the power parties will be able to settle the fate of a Member of Parliament. I would like to mention a number of remarkable facts from the scheme. The conduct of Members of Parliament is covered by the Code of Conduct, and now it is outside the scope of their duties. Members of parliament are therefore always and everywhere outlawed and, if this arrangement is adopted, so always and everywhere in the grip of that college, filled up, I shall say it once again with stats bosses and pulldolls of the power parties. Another fact. Everyone, including a non-kamer member, can be appointed to the board of enforcement. The parties of power can therefore choose from a huge pile of CVs of people who will be willing to do the dirty work for them, namely to defuse unpleasant MPs. Another fact. The majority of the Chamber, however small it may be, can choose a college that can silence the minority, no matter how large it may be. And now there is another point that I think is very important in that context. Since that college is appointed for a term of six years, the current majority of the Chamber, or the majority that exists at the time when the College is appointed, ensures that their Executive College is active for at least two Chamber periods. In theory, therefore, the minority decides on the fate of the majority. Because if there have been elections, the composition of the Lower House is different, but that college is always longer. That always stays over the election. There's almost no such thing as undemocratic. Everyone in the Netherlands... It is not clear to me whether this should be in the Netherlands; it could also be someone from North Korea, the friends of D66. Anyone, really anyone can bring a complaint against a Member of Parliament. The Dutch, foreigners, really anyone can turn to that college of power parties to file a complaint against a Member of Parliament. Little will be revealed. Name of the complainant: anonymous. Deliberations, supporting documents: not public. The arrangement has been made so that the power parties MPs without fair trial thus go much further than any judge in the Netherlands could do to destroy completely. The members of the college, the pull-dolls and the rulers of the power parties, are insanely not themselves committed to any code of conduct. I do not know if you have noticed this, but the members of the College who have to assess whether we are going to behave as MPs are themselves not bound by any code of conduct. The members of the execution college are not elected by the Dutch, by the electorate. So unelected, unelected people will soon be able to make elected people mouth-dead. Again, there is almost no such thing as undemocratic. Any sanctions imposed, whatever they may be, will in any case lead to reputational damage for the sanctioned MP. Once the college decides to shoot, it will always shoot. This arrangement is legally messing with all sides. This arrangement is undemocratic. This arrangement will give the current parties of power the weapon just before the elections to smother noises that may affect their dominant position in good time. This regulation is unnecessary and, above all, very unfresh. This regulation and its enforcement are unworthy of a parliament that claims to want to operate in a democratic rule of law. This regulation, this so-called code of conduct, should not be adopted in our democratic home. Once again, the PVV will vote against this regulation with conviction. We call on other parties here to do the same. The PVV will never recognise the authority or position of the board of stats and puppets of the power parties. The PVV will never be silenced and will always defend the interests of our constituents with everything we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u63	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. We'll wait until the chair is cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Code of Conduct for Members of the House of Representatives and the Regulation on the monitoring and enforcement of this Code of Conduct. Not necessarily the most interesting debate we can have in this Chamber, but a necessary debate. It has been a while since GRECO, a part of the Council of Europe, called on our country as a Member State of this Council to draw up better rules. Today, these rules are on the table in the form of the Code of Conduct and the enforcement and monitoring rules. Mr. Chairman. Let it be borne in mind that we would rather be able to say that we did not need these rules, but that ultimately applies to all the rules of conduct in society. Unfortunately, however, reality is more rigid and there can always be situations in which people can behave in a way that we would rather not see. That is why it is right that we should lay down clear rules, including for ourselves as MPs. By now laying down the code of conduct, six rules are actually clear with a description and a detailed explanation, we are doing ourselves a service as a Chamber. Firstly, we codify standards that are and should be a guide to our actions already for all of us. But it also ensures that every Member of Parliament can place a certain situation which he doubts about along the bar of conduct and, if necessary, discuss it with colleagues and the independent adviser. In addition, we show society that we consider the integrity of our office and our actions to be very important and that we are aware of them. This is important, especially at the present time when our work is rightly followed closely by many people in society. In short, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance can fully support the present code of conduct. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the code of conduct, there is a mechanism for monitoring and, where appropriate, enforcement if the code of conduct is infringed. This arrangement also looks good as far as my group is concerned. It is a good thing, if we agree on a code of conduct, to have an instrument to enforce the rules if someone breaks those rules unexpectedly. The code of conduct is therefore not binding; it is testable and enforceable. That's important. Mr. Chairman. Some have doubts as to whether anyone should be able to lodge a complaint. My group believes that this is a good idea. We are not so afraid that all sorts of obvious unreasonable complaints will suddenly be dealt with by the independent college. In addition, it would be somewhat odd that, if someone in society or an employee of the Second Chamber were to do so, I could also imagine that a Member of Parliament would clearly act in breach of the code of conduct, that person would have to file a complaint through another Member of Parliament. That sounds a little absurd. Then we get some sort of click culture inside the Chamber. This may put colleagues who have heard of a breach of the rule of conduct by a colleague but who have not themselves found it in a difficult, difficult situation. It would therefore be wiser to give everyone the opportunity to report an established breach of the code of conduct. As has been said, my group assumes that complaints are dealt with in an objective and sound manner, with hearing and hearing again. Mr. Chairman. Then here's the next thing, in line with this. We now occasionally see social media, for example, that colleagues are accused of non-intelligent action. Sometimes there are reports about it in the mainstream media. If such reports are unjustified accusations of breaches of rules of conduct, this could be very damaging to a public representative. In such a case, it is important that an independent college looks at such a situation in the short term and gives an opinion on it. Then an unjustified accusation by the independent college can be refuted. Then a Member of Parliament does not have to defend himself against ominous accusations for a long time. On the other hand, I can imagine. Suppose I'm accused of behavior that violates the code of conduct and that it persists and keeps coming back. Can I, as a Member of Parliament, if I feel that I am being falsely accused, submit a request to the College to look at this issue and give a ruling on it? That would help me in such a case. Mr. Chairman. My group has another question to ask the Chamber: can it promise that we will periodically evaluate the new code of conduct and the enforcement rules? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. In addition to the code of conduct itself, my group can agree to the current rules to maintain the code of conduct, as I said at the beginning. I hope that we will not have to make little use of the rules we are discussing today in the future. Then we can be proud of a well-functioning and integrity parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u65	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Sneller, who is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For years we have been talking about international incentives and reminders to better safeguard the integrity of MPs and about the intentions of the Bureau and proposals from various parliamentary working groups to put an end to the non-binding nature in this area, i.e. the code of conduct and the system of enforcement and supervision. For example, at the moment, Members of Parliament can consistently ignore the obligation to register under the Rules of Procedure without any consequences. And that's how practice runs the standard. As far as I am concerned, we were able to vote on the proposal after the previous debate, because my group supports the code of conduct and the advisory and sanctioning system, which contains careful procedural guarantees. But Mr Van Gent and his colleague Bishop have tabled two amendments which I would like to respond to. The first amendment aims to reduce the maximum penalty for Members of Parliament. Of course it has something ironic that the VVD is coming up with this proposal. The party that always wants the punishment for all kinds of other people higher, higher, higher, says: for postal code Binnenhof it does not have to be and should be the other way around. I also find the substance of the amendment unconvincing. Firstly, there are all kinds of safeguards; Mrs Özütok has already referred to them. An independent college conducts research and advises a sanction. Members of parliament may appeal against this College's proposal. I would like to thank the President for including this appeal on the basis of the previous substantive debate. A separate, temporary college is then set up and only the Chamber itself can impose a penalty, and not the College on its own. It concerns the college of research integrity, as stated in the scheme. The Court can only impose a penalty if the College has also advised it and therefore not independently. The month suspension is clearly the most far-reaching sanction in the list. For less far-reaching violations, the clue and the reprimand are open. The suspension shall not apply to votes. So that crucial part of the free mandate remains completely intact. Moreover, it is also not true that this suspension option would be completely new. It builds on two precedents which are already in the current Rules of Procedure and which are also reflected in the proposal under discussion this afternoon. Rule 60 of the current Rules of Procedure states: either the President of the Chamber or the President may now, on his own authority, not require a majority, even more so, that no appeal to the Chamber may be made to exclude members of the Chamber for the remainder of the day of the further attendance of the meeting, for example in the case of repeatedly used insulting expressions. I refer to Article 45, the new Article 15, point 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u67	A question from Mr Markuszower. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u68	But that's a completely different provision, isn't it? That is when the President of the Chamber finds that the order is disturbed during a debate or that a Member of Parliament behaves in such a way that the debate cannot, in the opinion of the President, be conducted in an orderly manner. The President-in-Office of the Council will then be able to intervene on his own authority. I can find some of that in itself, but I can do it now. However, that is not comparable to if you behave badly on the street or if the whole of the Netherlands can complain about your behaviour outside this house? In the current Rules of Procedure, the President has no authority over your behaviour outside this house or about matters relating to media reports or to someone you harass and want to file a complaint against you? Those are two totally incomparable values, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u69	This Rule of the Rules of Procedure deals with what Mr Markuszower talked about all the time, namely what is said in the debate. Then it's really not just about disturbing the order. Then it is also about insulting expressions, inciting unlawful acts or non-disclosure. So perhaps Mr Markuszower would do the right thing, even before this afternoon's debate on the Rules of Procedure, to see what exactly is written.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u70	I read it. The regulation before us today is not just about behaviour in this Chamber. It's also about how you behave outside this room. If, in the opinion of a complainant in the Netherlands or abroad, outside this room, you misbehave and undermine the dignity, the college can be activated. Then someone can file a complaint, including for behavior outside this house and for conduct that doesn't interfere with order. And then that college can impose a penalty, certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you. I call Mr Sneller. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u72	The college can't impose a sanction. Mr. Markuszower can keep repeating it, but it's just not what it says. Nor is it what is being proposed, so he is throwing everyone's eyes at what this proposal is really about. My point is that this is a power which, in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure, and I have not seen any amendment to amend it in the new Rules of Procedure, may be taken on the sole authority of the President. I have just said that the system of sanctions, as it is in the regulation that we are discussing today, builds on precedents in the regulation. This was the first one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you. I also see a question from Mr Van Gent. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u74	I also had a question about sanctions. Because it is true that the committee can propose a sanction and then the Court has to decide on it, even without any deliberations. Now, in the hypothetical case that the Chamber decides, at the request of the committee, to suspend anyone from participating in all chamber activities except voting for a week, do you think that, for example, his portfolio or his spokesperson may be taken over by a member of the political group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u75	Yes, this has happened in the past when groups have decided independently to suspend MPs from their own groups, for example, as far as possible under state law. In fact, that is my second precedent. Perhaps Mr Van Gent would like to take that with him. The House can now decide by a majority, on the basis of Rule 145, and I have already referred to it, and immediately on the basis of Rule 15.13 in the new Rules of Procedure, if that is adopted, when it concerns, for example, the non-performance of confidentiality as agreed. So what Mr Van Gent suggests as a problem is that the sanction would be new. This is about committee meetings, but, of course, portfolios are also provided by Members of Parliament. That's what it says. So that problem would already apply, as far as it is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you. The second question, Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u77	Of course, violating confidentiality is also a criminal matter, so that is something else. But I still want to ask a follow-up question to my other question. I understand that a spokesperson can be taken over, but does that not create legal inequality as a group but as a single person? Because it can't be replaced by anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u78	No. In my view, that is also the consequence that is simply attached to it. You can't be replaced if you're alone. But just for a second... That Rule 145 is simply something contained in the Rules of Procedure and also sanctioned by the Rules of Procedure. Not every breach of secrecy is a criminal offense. That depends entirely on the nature of the confidentiality. The second amendment that has been tabled would like to leave the right to submit complaints exclusively to fellow Members of the Chamber, because they would otherwise "be bird-free." I think that's a hell of an exaggeration. The College of Investigative Integrity can simply choose not to deal with manifestly unfounded complaints. And if the complaint is dealt with, then an investigation will follow with hearing and hearing again. Only then will the report follow with the views of the Member of Parliament at the Bureau. This will then be made public, while the College will not disclose information independently: Article 5. If there are serious reasons, even parts of that report may remain confidential. So much for the amendments. Finally, I think it would be a good idea to include the following in the plenary debates. That is why I would like to ask the President once again my question from the previous debate. How long can such an investigation take? This is true of the consultant's trajectory, but even more so for the college. I understand that it is difficult to set a fixed deadline for this and, of course, such an investigation deserves all due care. But I also think she agrees with me that it should not take too long, because it hangs like a sword of Damocles over a Member of Parliament. So how does she look at the tension between those two, and can she at least promise that the college will receive all the support it needs to ensure that the research does not last longer than necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik, who is speaking on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr. Chairman. Most groups know the use of signing an internal code of conduct when you run for a party. There is no question that we behave a little nicely here in this house and beyond. If Mr Van Raak does something stupid, we all actually suffer from it. If I do something stupid, maybe we'll have more trouble with that. So it is not just a matter of one group, it affects the functioning of Parliament as a whole. These are the letters which the President then receives. They are small things, such as the moment when I forget to turn off my ears during a debate, while I am listening, into inappropriate language. So they're small things, but they can also be escalating things, and that's what today is about. Today we are talking about the imposition of sanctions and a sanctioning committee. I understand very much that there is a need to set clear rules with each other, but I also have a number of concerns. My main concern is that this morning's debate began on how to prevent it from becoming a political thing. We shouldn't get any more trouble than we're gonna have fun with it later. It must help us to improve the functioning of the Chamber. It must not have the unintended effect that it strengthens the disruption rather than benefit us. My second question is how to prevent the College from being flooded with all kinds of requests. How does the college sieve those requests? Is there some kind of evaluation so that we can adjust in the meantime when we notice that the instrument is no longer doing what it needs to do? My third question is exactly how we maintain it. What power or counterpower do you ultimately have for that? My final question is that of the examples we are thinking about. Mr Markuszower is very much afraid that he will be silenced. Well, we're all out of trouble or back talk here, so I don't think that's the case. We will then fall more back on the current Rules of Procedure. It's going to be very extreme, excessive circumstances. I think it is very good that the Presidium, in this case through the President, clearly indicates what it is in. What are we supposed to think about and how are we going to deal with that? Mr President, my final question is how we deal with the sanctions that the College may be able to advise and, of course, what the Chamber itself decides about, compared to the measures that groups may have already taken. Most groups also take such measures when something happens that everyone agrees it has not been a useful, perhaps deliberate or unintentional action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u81	There is a question from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mrs. Kuik says I'm mainly afraid that we'll be shut up. I have said that many times, but of course there are two forms of silence. There is the direct form, in which you are for example deprived of the word or in which you can be suspended. It is already possible that you will be temporarily deprived of the word. But there is also an indirect form of silence, and that is criminalising someone. There could be a rumor about someone and then there'll be a complaint procedure. I have already mentioned this in my speech, and I am curious to see how Mrs Kuiken sees it, that the fact that you are the subject of a complaints college alone makes you outlawed as a Member of Parliament. The complaints college will be looking at you in secret. You don't even know who's complaining to you. It creates a certain dynamic. The Telegraph or the AD will write: that and that MP is under scrutiny or how do you say, that and that MP is the subject of discussion in the activated complaints college. You are doing something wrong, the citizen does not yet know what the accusation is, but it may then be that the Member of Parliament, without the Member of Parliament knowing who accused him or her, without the Member of Parliament knowing the deliberations in the College, is suspected of something very serious. And no one knows exactly what it is. I would like to ask Mrs Kuik: do you see that danger, how do you see it, do you think it is also a form of indirect silence? Of course, it reduces the chance for such a person to be re-elected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u83	Clear, thank you very much. I call Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr Markuszower is asking all legitimate questions. I'm just assuming that the staff college works under confidentiality. Two: if there are rumors, they are in the media before a college can deal with them. We already know "trial by media," so to speak. Such a college could also help to separate facts and fiction from each other. In short: they are in themselves legitimate concerns and also good questions. My main concern is that we turn it into a political theater rather than perhaps helping to act with integrity. What I find regrettable, Mr President, is that it is sometimes too long for a Member of Parliament, for example, to sincerely apologize or for a Member of Parliament or a group to say: we have to do this in a different way. That's what I've been worried about. Regretfully and act accordingly, or at least take action as you promise, would also help in this house. It helps myself and helps others. You actually want a college like that to have no role. At the moment that college is going to play a role, we actually already have a problem with each other. I think we all agree on that, too. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer. Questions were also asked about when. Is it a month, or are there all kinds of differentiations in it? Or are there any other options? I like to hear it. I'm not here all the time because I have some other things to do. But I will come back and, of course, I will read the report back. Well, then, Mr. Chairman, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u85	Yes, thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo. Mr Van Otterloo spoke on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the code of conduct and what is related to it. It is about how a Member of Parliament should behave and what role he or she has as an example. And that is not easy to lay down in code of conduct, even though it has been tried to do so in five lines. There are political differences that also translate into what the electorate likes or doesn't like. Nevertheless, as far as I am concerned, there are enough things that are clear as to why certain behaviour is acceptable or not acceptable. Not for nothing we're part of the High Colleges of State. Something like that creates obligations. I'm not of nobility, but you understand: nobility is mandatory. We also have more freedom in our meeting than others in society. We can afford more here in this Chamber than outside the Chamber before the judge could interfere. The documents rightly state that it is ultimately the electorate who has to decide on the fate of a Member of Parliament. But I agree with Mrs Kuik who says that we all suffer when there are stories in the publicity about behaviour that are not acceptable. We all have a duty to hold this office in high esteem, because we have an exemplary function. Part of the reputation is also at stake in less political matters. It is then a question of what is more generally accepted and of setting an example at individual level. Then it gets harder. When it comes to money, there have always been people and there will always be people who will be called small or large scribblers. For even if you, as a Member of Parliament, stand in your right to make maximum use of an arrangement, the outside world may still believe that this should not be moral. In the past, if you could claim that it was not fraud or abuse of an arrangement, it could now be referred to as improper use. The same applies to the current regime. I have experience with far less florissant arrangements in my previous periods. It's of all times, but it's gotten stronger. Today's discussion concerns the establishment of a code of conduct and the establishment of the College of Research Integrity. As a Member of Parliament, you want to stand up for your constituents, because you want to deal with certain matters differently. But where do you put the boundary between group interests and more individual interests at this time? In that respect, we have it a little easier: we have less individual interests here. In the period just before I became a Member of Parliament, I supervised a number of real estate transactions. Then I come across municipalities where the alderman sells to his neighbour a piece of land from the municipality and has the building demolished by his own brother, and the city council doesn't want to talk about it further. We won't have that here. We won't have a coffee shop owner here who's also in the city council and so, you might say, can't have a vog, or can't have a vog, if you look at what he's doing at the back door. But you also have lobbies that clearly place the individual interest or that of a small group above the general interest. That is why I was hit again last week by the reports that the Netherlands remains the frontrunner with the large number of cancer patients. This is due to the fact that we smoke more in the Netherlands. It is also the result of the fact that we in the Netherlands have a very active lobby for the tobacco industry. Then there's the next question. We know very well that we have to say things like "someone shouldn't be rewarded after coming here," but what do we do with people who worked directly or indirectly for the same industry before they joined the Chamber and who have the same views here in the Chamber? Then you can say: they were paid in the past. Is that something that has happened, of course, what that committee would then be dealing with? There is, of course, talk in the media about whether this is possible, an ex-lobbyist or an ex-worker of VNO-NCW who has the same views. How does this committee deal with complaints about the old employer and the positions of the policy? I am also sometimes surprised to hear that before, so that is not a new feeling of substitute shame when I see colleagues reading the lyrics of lobbyists, which I have also seen. Then I think: there is a lack of self-consideration. Let me say at random: we have of course seen it with the farmers and we have seen it with the Q fever. Then you see that there is the question: if a complaint is made, would it be dealt with? We also live in a time of growing conspiracy theories. I am not talking about Mr Markuszower's contribution, but I am talking about what is coming to us. Let me give you an example, because it's about a minister. It is not covered by this code of conduct, but the example is, of course, clear. De Jonge would have a brother I don't even know for sure who would be in the pharmaceutical industry, and the whole pandemic and vaccine can be traced back to this familial relationship. We are flooded with such e-mails; colleagues will recognize that as well. No? Then, fortunately, you are not on the committees that are approached. But the e-mail bombs are numerous. The question is: what will the committee do with complaints of this kind? Are they treated at all, or are they covered by the same category of "the earth is flat" or "it is the Templars, or the Masons." Finally, Mr President, my final point. I have noticed something, and I have put a question on that to the current confidential person. That question was also put to the First Chamber. There is quite a difference in interpretation between what the confidant does here and what these views might have about, and what is the case in the Upper Chamber. Now I can imagine that from the combination of functions that there is in the First Chamber and much less here. However, I would like to see a little more clarification from the Bureau as to how far the scope goes compared to that in the Upper Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bishop, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I remember as the day of yesterday the first time I was sworn in, as a councilman in the municipality of Veenendaal. Those are moments you'll never forget. I then realized that you are lifting your hand and swearing before God that you will act with honor and conscience and that you will contribute to helping implement the laws of the country. You also swear you didn't do anything to buy in as a politician. I also realized at that time: yes, although I am still so transparent, and in the meantime, under the guise of transparency, I would try to do things in secret that cannot stand the light of day and in which I have not acted with integrity, then there is still someone who lets me say it a little popularly, looking over my shoulder, before whose face I stand, from whom I cannot hide it and to whom I must answer. The oath that you then take and which I then take is an appeal to the omniscience of God, the recognition of his omniscience and of his good care for this world. That makes the oath for me personally so much more than expressing a promise. Mr. Chairman. Even if you later take the oath, as with the installation as a Member of Parliament, that remains a moment with the same load. You can use tools for that, too. We therefore believe it is important that the code of conduct and the system should give concrete substance to the carrying, implementation and application of these rules. In this sense, therefore, we wholeheartedly support both the rules of conduct and the rules of supervision and enforcement. The fact that a Member of Parliament is in an independent capacity and in the public interest sounds clear. But then you have a huge question: what is the public interest? Who decides? Where, from one political point of view, a particular position is not a general interest but a partial interest, it is, according to another party, the general interest. If, for example, colleagues in the Party of Animals stand up for animal interests, this is in their view the general interest, for the service they stand up for, while for a number of other groups, to which I also count, this is not an insignificant aspect, but a partial interest in the consideration of a much wider issue that you then deal with. So everything has its own place. Is a left MP who has his children in a white school a relevant information that needs to be registered because of the interests in education debates? Is a right-wing MP with a strong mortgage credible in debates about maintaining the mortgage interest rate deduction? Can a MP whose wife runs a farm be credible president in an agricultural debate? This kind of example indicates that it is not black and white, that there is also a grey area, and that one's own conscience and moral compass also have a very special meaning in this kind of thing. The big risk is that in practice we allow the coloring of a certain political perspective to be guiding. We must avoid this as much as possible, because rules of conduct must be as objective as possible. Mr. Chairman. I have already said that we think it is important to have this kind of code of conduct. We also think it is important to agree on monitoring and enforcement. In any case, that can provide a basis for talking to each other. That could mean you're reluctant to sue, but generously addressing. I think that's a good line. On two specific points, Mr Van Gent and I have tabled amendments. First of all, on the possibility of suspending a Member of Parliament. The explanatory statement already states that this is a very far-reaching measure, which is badly tolerated by the constitutionally enshrined free mandate of a Member of Parliament. We have not chosen lightly to delete suspension, because in fact it means that you, as colleagues in the Chamber, are speaking to a colleague, doing his job when it comes to input into debates and discussions, blocking and making impossible, and this is no longer a question of an order measure. The Rules of Procedure do indeed provide for this. It goes on, it can lead to a month's exclusion from debates and consultations. That is why you are touching the constitutional position of the Chamber in the heart. That has been an important reason for us, as SGP in any case, that we say: a note, a correction of a mistake or a reprimand, all of that can be done, and also order measures are excellent, because these are adequate measures to ensure the progress of the work. It is true that the President has an important fundamental role to play in this. But the categorical exclusion of discussions and debates, which affects the work of the Member of Parliament, goes too far as a kind of sanction. As far as we are concerned, this possibility must therefore be abolished. That has nothing to do with more flexible punishments or whatever, no, it has to do with the constitutional position of the Member of Parliament. Secondly, there is an amendment on who can lodge a complaint. This is an internal arrangement of the Chamber. In our view, therefore, the regulation should not be open to any citizen who so wishes. A colleague also mentioned the political abuse that could be made of it. We all know processes that take place on social media. You should not think that something similar is going to happen around this arrangement. Then it's gonna blow its target off completely. It is an instrument to promote internal political hygiene as effectively as possible. That is why we say: do not limit it to an instrument which is at the service of the Chamber and cannot be at the service of any citizen. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u89	Before you conclude: a question from Mr Van Otterloo. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u90	These are two points which are interrelated and which Mr Bishop has also mentioned in succession. He finds it a major problem, if I may say so, whether it is unconstitutional, I do not know that a Member of Parliament is being suspended while he has a mandate from the electorate and has been elected. But this is also because, rightly or wrongly, we do not have any anti-corruption arrangements in relation to other countries. One of the five codes of conduct deals with corruption. Should I understand Mr Bishop so that he does not find it a problem if someone is clearly corrupt and sits here and can be suspended? Is that the only way to nail that MP to the political shame? On the second point: if you leave it to colleagues alone, then the risk of a political reckoning is not much greater, whereas if that is not the case, you can leave it to others to complain or not, and you do not have to be the mouthpiece yourself. For then what Mr Markuszower said could happen, for which I am not afraid, in fact, that political accounts can take place here. As far as I am concerned, it would be a wrong signal if colleagues were left to do so, because then it would be given a political load.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u91	Your point is clear. Mr. Bishop, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u92	First of all, I would like to talk about the first point: corruption. That is, of course, a criminal offence, so there are other ways to tackle corruption. I do not believe that this code of conduct, with the ultimate sanction being a suspension, can be an effective weapon to tackle corruption. I think that a different path should be chosen. In that sense, it is not an effective instrument. On the second point: political abuse. I am very aware that with this code of conduct and the system of supervision and enforcement, there is no way of preventing anything from being politically abused. A malicious group that wants to cut down another political group or another MP, a member of the Chamber, could possibly use that. Only, if you open it to non-Room members, that risk quadrates itself. So, in order to reduce that risk in any case and to prevent the instrument from being improperly used outside the Chamber as a political instrument, we say in that amendment: use the instrument, the regulation of supervision and enforcement, as an instrument of internal hygiene, as a self-purifying capacity of the Chamber. In our view, this is most effective if we use this instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u93	By the way, there are different forms of corruption. If it comes to a trial, we know from the experience with aldermen and city council members how long it can take for that to be decided. So I don't see that as an alternative to a suspension here. But I understand that Mr Bishop does not agree with me that it is precisely opening up to others that allows us to be more cautious, in order to avoid the appearance of political reckoning when it comes to complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u94	If I understand correctly, opening this arrangement to non-Room Members would make Members of Parliament more reluctant to use it as such. I don't see that relationship. I do not see why, as a Chamber, you cannot deal with this arrangement in a cautious way, a careful way, when you say: non-Room Members should not be able to find any grounds for putting a Member of Parliament on the suspect's bench. Because that's what's actually happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u95	I note with myself that, and I have checked with the rest of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that at the moment when others can complain, we can be more cautious. We do not have to charge the MP because we leave it to others. The others are the voters. Those are also people who are worried about this. At the moment that we would do so as a Member of Parliament, we immediately have the appearance that it is a political reckoning and then Mr Markuszower gets right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u96	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u97	I do not see that contradiction in that sense. If you see which processes are taking place on social media, I have already referred to them as "big risk" that, if you open it to non-Room members, it could be abused to a large extent. That is why I think: let this be an instrument for the internal political hygiene of us together. Then it's at least as effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Özütok. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr Bishop says that he thinks the code of conduct is important, that he also considers our integrity very important and that it is important that those rules are there and that we can all respect them. But why leave the assessment alone with the MPs? Because if an employee who works in the Lower House finds non-intelligent action by a Member of Parliament, the employee will only be able to address it through a Member of Parliament. If that Member of Parliament has not found that out, then he can't do anything with it. So why are you restricting it only and exclusively to MPs? It is precisely this openness that is important for transparency and to make clear exactly what is being done with integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u100	I think it would be extremely careless if an employee of the Chamber or of a political group were to go directly to the committee. In my opinion, then, you should first discuss this with the person concerned or at least with others and verify whether the observation is correct. Members of parliament will be involved. Then it seems to me that it is reasonable for the Member of Parliament to bring the matter before the Court of Justice. So I don't see any obstacle to that. I only see this as a measure of care by linking it with Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u101	Finalizing, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u102	I think this sounds like a threshold, because I am not just talking about group workers. I'm talking about staff from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u104	So I see it really broad. I am sorry that you are very exclusively confined to Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u105	Let us be clear: even the President could play a role in this. If a member of the Chamber finds something and cannot go to a political group, then the President, as a Member of Parliament, can still... So there is no threshold. There's no threshold. This amendment is merely an attempt to prevent as much as possible the improper use by outsiders. Again, we all see what is happening on social media: incredibly and brutally accusing and putting in the dock. You don't want to do that, because that also damages the reputation of the MP's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u106	Were you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u107	I had a beautiful closing sentence, Mr. Chairman. If you'll allow me, I'll close with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u108	Oh, yeah. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u109	This subject clearly shows that we cannot capture the functioning of our consciences in precise rules. The conscience does require constant tightening, correction and reflection. In our view, this code of conduct and the system of supervision and enforcement can make a valuable contribution to this. I wish us all a great deal of wisdom and insight as colleagues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Gent. Mr Van Gent speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow speakers for this debate. They agreed two months ago when Mr Bishop and I asked for this decision to be taken just before the vote, because this code of conduct concerns us all. We also considered it important to have a separate debate on this. It's a good thing the Chamber gets a code of conduct. Many Dutch institutions, organisations and governments as well as foreign parliaments have one. In terms of integrity, it is also important to know exactly which rules apply to MPs. Integrity is also an important topic for the VVD, something we have unfortunately had to deal with on a regular basis. That has also forced us to take firm action. A number of rules in the Code of Conduct are unambiguous. For example, Article 2: "The MP does not accept a gift or favour intended to influence his actions in the office." That's clip-and-ready. However, the interpretation of other articles can be considered differently. For example, Article 1 provides: "The Member of Parliament shall perform his duties in the interests of his independence and of his general interest." As Mr Bishop said, there are, of course, different and sometimes even contradictory views on what the general interest means. The explanation of this Article states that the Member of Parliament shall refrain from any conduct which seriously impairs the authority or dignity of the Chamber. Of course, you can argue exactly what you mean by that. Now, open standards are inherent in codes of conduct. You can see that in other codes of conduct. But that of course makes the monitoring of these codes a lot more difficult. It is good that independent supervision and enforcement are regulated, but there are still two concerns. Firstly, the scheme allows any person to lodge a complaint with the College of Investigative Integrity. That means that literally anyone anywhere in the world can sue a member of the House of Representatives for an alleged violation of the code of conduct. We believe that this will become unworkable, precisely because of the open standards that the code of conduct has. For example, a Member of Parliament will be able to be sued for failing to respect the dignity of the Chamber. That is why Mr Bishop and I have drawn up an amendment which limits the possibility of lodging complaints to the Members of Parliament themselves. After all, it is an internal code of the Chamber itself. We also have a second objection. If the College of Inquiry finds integrity that the code of conduct has been infringed in a specific situation, a suspension may be proposed to the Chamber, which may decide on it without discussion, excluding a Member of Parliament from taking part in plenary sessions and committee meetings for a maximum period of one month, of course, subject to votes. The VVD believes that integrity violations should be addressed firmly. It has happened in the past that a Member of Parliament has been expelled from his or her group. But the punishment can never be contrary to the fundamental rights of the people's representative. He or she cannot be removed from office, nor can he or she be deprived of the floor. In this respect, it is striking that our neighbours, the First Chamber, write in an explanatory statement to their code of conduct that formal sanctions such as general suspensions or withdrawal from membership of the Chamber do not tolerate the constitutionally anchored free mandate of the members. Freely translated: the privilege to be here and to speak here has been given to the MP by a voter, and that right can only be taken away from him or her by the electorate in elections. That is why Mr Bishop and I have tabled an amendment which deletes the possibility of suspension as a sanction. Mr. Chairman. It's really personal to me. It's not about me and it's not about my party. In my opinion, this is something very important: the institution of the House of Representatives. I disagree with a great deal of what is being said in this Chamber. Sometimes I even take offense. But I would like all representatives of the people, from left to right and from top to bottom, to feel free in their expressions, without risking being sued by any citizen, with even the ultimate consequence of being silenced for a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen. Mr Van der Molen speaks on behalf of the CDA Group. I call Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. That we spend an entire morning on this is my fault. We have already had a code of conduct in this Chamber and have discussed with each other whether we should take that last step, namely that in future we no longer decide whether we can get away with anything, but that others, like in many cases in Dutch society, are watching with us and seeing if we have complied with the rules. At that time, the CDA Group felt that this should be done, and that this last point should also be implemented in the opinion of the committee set up at the time. I think that's a good thing. I will also emphasise this further in my contribution. I also think that, with all the differences of opinion, we have already had a very nice debate on the way things are going here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Integrity is a fundamental value for public administration. If it is not guaranteed, it could undermine our democratic rule of law. In this Chamber we are often critical of others. For example, together with the Christian Union, I put forward the proposal that aldermen should be screened by default before they are confirmed by the city council, for example, to see if there are interests that are inconsistent. And we should not know anything about it in the Chamber if, for example, we get scientific studies from ministers, which we subsequently find to have been improperly influenced. Then we always point to the other, but it is also good to put your hand in your own bosom. Members of parliament can also make mistakes and make mistakes in practice. It's not always easy not to make mistakes either, because when are you gonna do it right? But it is good to clarify those rules. 'Cause what if you got on a plane that was paid for by a businessman and you didn't put that gift in the registry for MPs, and the outside world thinks, but wait a minute, would that businessman ask for something in return later? And what if you get a fee because you live far from the Chamber and have to rent something here, which can be quite expensive in The Hague, and afterwards it turns out that you live somewhere else and you weren't actually entitled to that compensation? Yes, we can say a lot about it, but that is what we, at least the people who receive such compensation, are looking at collectively. It is therefore a good thing, as far as the CDA Group is concerned, that we are taking a number of steps in this Chamber to strengthen our integrity policy. As a new Member of Parliament, I was surprised that, although there are integrity rules, the majority was left to parliamentary groups to decide how and whether they were maintained. Thus, in principle, one MP may get away with more than another, and that also undermines confidence in the Chamber. We all have a duty, of whatever political colour, to protect the authority of the institution of parliament. It was for that reason that I tabled the motion on behalf of the CDA Group in order to achieve clear sanctions in cases where the code of conduct and the integrity rules for Members of Parliament are violated. It is a good thing that an advisor for MPs is now available and the code of conduct is a welcome addition, but the average Dutchman might rightly think that the rules without any kind of enforcement ultimately do not propose much. The fact that the motion was then adopted unanimously, including those of the PVV, shows that the basis is very broad. Let us therefore do everything we can with each other to ensure that the regulation enters into force as soon as possible. My first question to you is therefore the date from which the code of conduct will apply and from when it can actually be monitored. The CDA Group supports the code of conduct and the arrival of a college that monitors the integrity rules and that may propose sanctions to this Chamber. We appreciate the fact that, at the request of the members of the Committee on the Interior, and in particular Mr Sneller of D66, an appeal procedure has been added for Members of Parliament against the rulings of the College: hear and hear. This is in line with the view expressed by the CDA Group on the regulation. Monitoring and enforcement of integrity rules is also intended to protect MPs from unfounded complaints. Integrity is a prerequisite for MPs to be able to do their job. That's what it's all about. That's what it's all about. Mr. Chairman. Two amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a monitoring and enforcement scheme, both by the VVD and the SGP. The amendments seek to adapt the sanctions and limit the possibility of lodging complaints against Members of Parliament. The idea behind these amendments can be imagined by the CDA Group, because if anyone can complain, aren't MPs de facto outlawed? Even if you rely on what is being said about this and that on social media every day, you will soon see that shit is floating. In addition, excluding MPs from the debate for a maximum of one month is a very severe and final sanction. The VVD and the SGP seem to think that goes too far. However, the CDA Group does not share the thrust of the amendments. For example, the VVD and the SGP wish to grant the right to lodge a complaint exclusively to members of parliament, because they fear that Members of parliament will be declared outlawed if anyone can lodge a complaint. The CDA Group does not share that concern. The monitoring and enforcement regime is crystal clear about the premise that not every complaint is an official complaint and is also being dealt with. The complaint can't be about criminal offences. The complaint cannot be without justification, as is often the case with Twitter. And a complaint about a member of parliament's political position is not a complaint under the arrangement. One cannot complain about what we say, but about what we do and what we leave behind. That is why we believe that Members of Parliament are not being declared outlawed and that adequate rules of care have been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u114	A question from Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u115	But if you read the code of conduct literally, it says, for example, that a Member of Parliament serves the general interest. A complaint can therefore be lodged if someone has said or claimed something that the complainant does not consider to be in the public interest or if someone has behaved and behaved in this way which is not in the dignity of the office. Then you can actually get a complaint based on what is now on those grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u116	There is nothing in the way of people who make a complaint to have their own opinion or support. This could be a complaint against a member of the Socialist Party who says that the interests of the worker are not adequately protected and who believes that the employer should also be listened to. I believe that such a complaint by the committee is not sufficiently substantiated and is therefore not considered admissible, because, as you said, there is a discussion about it. I could also blame the SP for that. You cannot burden an entrepreneur endlessly with a lot of rights for employees, because then the continuity of the company can simply be put under pressure. But that's what we're having the debate on. I would like to give an example of the situation that this Member of Parliament would clearly have been funded by the trade unions and did not clarify it by saying: I have been fully funded by the FNV for a number of days. When a complaint is made in relation to the position, we are where we need to be. Then there is the question of non-compliance with the integrity rules. The CDA believes that action can be taken against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you. Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u118	I am glad that Mr Van der Molen is already thinking along with the committee, but I would point out that she is of course independent. So in the end, they will decide for themselves whether a complaint is justified or not. But assuming that they will indeed reject a great deal, I would like to think for a moment from the point of view of the committee. If the committee is immediately overwhelmed with complaints, is that really an unworkable situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u119	On Mr Van Gent's first point: I do not agree with that committee; that committee should decide for itself. It's how I personally read the arrangement. So I think you have a point that a lot of people think: now we have a nice place to present all kinds of views about what that Member of Parliament has said and what is not right. As I read the regulation, these are unfounded complaints and they are being dropped. So I am confident that that committee will do that, but I share with Mr Van Gent that a lot of things can come to such a college. I have a question about this in my contribution, because of course it must also be workable. We need to know what we're getting into.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u121	I am afraid that Mr Van der Molen is underestimating the risk on this point. There will only be a complaint against one of our colleagues by anyone at all. He quacks it on Twitter and he adds: yes, but the committee will not follow that up again. Then the damage has already been done. And you won't fix it. Whatever decision the committee makes, it's always detrimental. If they decide to dismiss the complaint as inadmissible, it is detrimental: you see! If they decide to deal with the complaint, it will also have harmful consequences. Then perhaps the latter is justified. That is why I would like to stress once again: look carefully at this regulation and at the possible harmful effects that this wording, this way of opening it up, may have on the Chamber and on the standing of the Chamber as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u122	People ask me sometimes: why do you do the job as a Member of Parliament, because you never do it right. I say it's a very relaxed fact that you never do well, because then you don't have to worry about it. People always have an opinion whether you're doing well as MPs or not. Even if, for example, the College finds that a Member of Parliament is not blamed after all the evidence has been examined, there will always be a group that does not believe this and says: it is a fact, but something else must have played with it. That's exactly what you have in court judgments. I allow myself to say that if VVD and SGP propose to give the right to lodge a complaint only to MPs, then it will play exactly the same. Then the outside world will say: yes, these people are very cozy, have a bit of a discussion with each other and then go for a cup of coffee; they don't rat each other out anyway. So we have to be very careful. This is indeed a difficult situation. We need to realise that people will be critical of that. We have to be real, too. Even if such a committee says that a Member of Parliament is acquitted, a part of it will feel wronged. There's no avoiding that, no matter what arrangement you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u123	Finishing at this point, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u124	Someone who shouts "it's an internal party; they still keep each other's hands above their heads" must be given political training, because apparently he has not heard enough from opposition and coalition. That's not how it works here in the Chamber. So that's easy to tackle. But this risk is present squared if you open it to outside complaints. That is the major objection to the wide opening up of the market. You're never gonna stop it one hundred percent. That's true. But you can minimize it by making it an effective internal instrument, so of the Chamber itself. Hence the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u125	I think Mr Bishop has a point, and I have also acknowledged that there will be large groups who think: I send an e-mail and submit a complaint, because this is what I find, but if it is not sufficiently substantiated or concerns the opinion of a Member of Parliament, it will be put aside. Mr Bishop and Mr Van Gent suggested that it should be exclusive to Members of Parliament. There's another complication. Not everyone who is not a Member of Parliament would have no right to complain. It could be a journalist who did research into the trade and walk of a Member of Parliament. It may be employees who have personally experienced the behaviour of a Member of Parliament. It is not desirable if Members of Parliament will then be a filter if someone asks: do you want to start that procedure with my complaint under the arm? Then the MP must stick his neck out and be placed in an extremely difficult position vis-à-vis another Member of Parliament. I therefore believe that the spirit of distinction should also apply to the group of non-Room Members. That is not one gray mass of people who will never be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u126	I think it would be a good idea for you to take your speech to a conclusion. You still had a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u127	I can see some time on the clock. So I have a few comments to make. The VVD and the SGP want to grant the right to lodge a complaint exclusively to MPs, because they fear that MPs will be declared outlawed, as I said. The CDA Group does not share that concern. The proposal of the VVD and the SGP to give only Members of Parliament the right to lodge a complaint does not take sufficient account of the fact that this is a political company. For example, failure to file a complaint may be motivated by the consideration that a coalition colleague could be embarrassed, that a small majority in the Chamber would be under pressure or that a complaint could be used as a political leverage against another colleague: I know something about you and if you do not do what I want, I will file a complaint. This can also happen if everyone can lodge a complaint, but I see that danger increases many times if this becomes an exclusive right. Pretending that there would be no political considerations between lodging a complaint or not is, in my opinion, ignoring a reality. Political considerations should not a priori affect integrity policy. A complaint against a Member of Parliament who behaves seriously against a staff member must also be made by the staff member concerned. Citizens who find malpractice should be able to lodge a complaint without having to find another Member of Parliament willing to do so for them first. The proposal of the VVD and the SGP on the final penalty, excluding discussion for a maximum of one month, raises questions for the CDA Group. Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber already allows that sanction for cases where confidentiality of information is violated. If the VVD and the SGP have no objection to this sanction in the event of breach of confidentiality, but in the fictional case where a Member of Parliament would have taken bribes to cast a particular vote, that may be well explained as regards the CDA. The breach of confidentiality harms the Chamber as a whole, but also serious violations of the integrity rules do. The scheme already indicates that appropriate sanctions can be imposed which go less far than the month mentioned. Let us remain consistent in this as a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Bureau, on the basis of the questions that still exist, how we are going to evaluate the procedure for dealing with complaints. It cannot be ruled out that, certainly in the start-up period, the College can be overwhelmed with complaints which are almost immediately clear that they cannot be dealt with but must be answered. How do we deal with false accusations and abuse of the procedure, should that prevent? What are the options for adjusting the process if the scheme is not sufficiently well-balanced? For example, can this be part of the first report that the college will issue? I'll finish with that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.15 p.m. and then ask the President to answer the questions and give an opinion on the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u129	The next item is the debate on the Code of Conduct Members of the Second Chamber of States General and the proposal for a regulation on supervision and enforcement Code of Conduct Members of the Second Chamber of States General. We've had the first term on the side of the Chamber. So I would like to give the President the opportunity to answer the questions put and to give an opinion on the amendments tabled on behalf of the Bureau. I would like to meet with Members: four questions. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's very strange to be standing here in box K. I would like to thank the Bureau members Mrs Ockje Tellegen and Mrs Vera Bergkamp for being here. Not the entire Bureau can be here, also because of corona rules, but it feels very nice to be here on behalf of the Bureau. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their input, especially on such a subject as this, which is very important for the House of Representatives, namely the integrity of the representatives of the people. As most Members of Parliament have said in their contributions, this directly affects the standing and confidence of the Chamber. I am also very pleased that I fully agree with Mr Markuszower that this debate is also taking place in public. We have discussed this a few times before in different gremia but in the end it is very good that voters can see what parties think of their own rules of conduct and how they want to maintain them. This also fits in with a modern, open democracy. The fact that we are discussing this here today is also thanks to Mr Markuszower. The code of conduct has been on the voting list for a long time, and Mr Markuszower said at one point: this is not a hammer piece, we simply want to have a debate on it. Mr Van Gent said on behalf of the VVD: we do not want to vote on sanctions, but we would like to have a debate on them. So thanks to these two colleagues, with the support of the rest of the Chamber, we are standing here and having a public debate here. It seems to me that it would be a good idea to briefly outline how we have come up with these proposals. Mr Markuszower said: it is at the last minute, just before the elections and probably there is a plot behind it or whatever. That is not the case, Mr Markuszower, because it has really been since the last century that motions have been tabled, as in 2010, and that there have been several discussions about them at the Bureau. Following the adoption of a motion in 2013, the Integrity Working Group set up members of the House of Representatives, who were also asked to advise on the rules of conduct and how to maintain them. We all know, too, that Mrs Özütok, Mr Snel and other colleagues have mentioned that the group against corruption in Europe, GRECO, a body of the Council of Europe, has more or less turned a blind eye to the Netherlands in every evaluation report. It is a report on all parliaments, and we are not getting away with it. That report was also presented to the Chamber in 2014 with ten recommendations from a working group. There was always discussion that some recommendations were accepted and other recommendations were not accepted. It was important in all these discussions that we had some rules of conduct, but that in practice it was not enough to maintain them and to ensure that they were complied with. Really every year there was criticism of this, even in 2018. We have said a few times as President: let us set up a working group again. We also know that Mr Van Raak asked the Van Oost working group very well in 2015. We also asked a working group in 2018 to look at those recommendations that we are critical of. Each time there has been a lot of discussion about that. I am incredibly happy, and with me all the Presidium members, with Mr Van der Molen's motion I have him here, who was submitted in June 2019. The Bureau was then asked to submit a proposal to the Chamber before 1 December 2019 to implement Recommendation 4 from the report of the Integrity Working Group and to further develop monitoring and enforcement measures. The entire Chamber voted in favour of this motion, including the PVV and Forum for Democracy. So the motion was really adopted unanimously. That's why we're here today. Looking at everything, I think it is very important that we as a parliament should have an exemplary role. Everything that has to do with integrity, with any group, refers back to the whole parliament. That is necessary. We see, as has been mentioned by a few colleagues, that Members of Parliament are increasingly being called into question today for integrity violations. Sometimes rightly so, but sometimes wrongly so. Mrs Özütok and Mr Van der Molen also mentioned this. These violations of integrity and the media scandal can damage the confidence and authority of Parliament. As the Dutch proverb says: trust comes on foot, but goes on horseback. A code of conduct for MPs and their monitoring and enforcement have different functions. The most important thing is that it makes it clear to citizens what rules of conduct we, as parliamentarians, have agreed with each other and whatever rules of conduct apply to us. What should and what shouldn't be? What is relevant and what is not relevant? What is also important is that it also gives Members of Parliament an important guarantee of the rules of conduct they must follow. When you are sworn in as a Member of Parliament, you get a lot of information about you, such as about moving and about all kinds of concessions. I can honestly tell you that when I was sworn in, I had already forgotten half of it. That's how it works. You're all happy; half you remember and the other half you don't remember. It is also very important for Members of Parliament to be protected from sometimes frivolous accusations. Not everyone is really malicious, but once it gets into the media that is with the social media completely so Members of parliament are publicly nailed to shame. It is very important that Members of Parliament know where they stand, but also that, if there are accusations, that is what is being looked at. Such a MP can say: the college has looked at it and it's just bullshit what it says there. He or she can also say: I forgot to report it and I've done it in the meantime, so it's done. It is therefore very important for Members of Parliament to be protected from such things. I hope it will also provide some sort of hold for Members of Parliament. It is also very, very important that you also know that Parliament's trust and authority is strengthened. Then I come to the code of conduct. A clear code of conduct for Members of Parliament with supervisory rules is really quite normal at this time. We're not the only ones. All parliaments we compare ourselves with, modern parliaments in parliamentary democracies, simply have rules of conduct and supervision and sanctions. England is often mentioned as an example. You can't even be a Member of Parliament there if you do something that is absolutely contrary to the code of conduct. You can also get a big fine. They have about the same proposal as we have now; of course they were much earlier. It's perfectly normal there. Moreover, it does not apply only to parliaments. As a parliament, we are also very critical of abuses in society or as ministers. Mr Van der Molen and Mr Bisschop mentioned city council members and aldermen. Then we are standing here saying that this is absolutely impossible and that it is damaging the confidence of citizens in politics and that something must be done. We have also often debated directors who are exemplary and who are not fulfilling them. In short, it is perfectly normal that we take the same measure as others. Each Member of Parliament is aware of the fact that he or she holds a public office to which rights, but also duties, are attached. It's obvious. If we agree on a code of conduct and we do not monitor and enforce it, then we might as well not have a code of conduct, because then it does not work in practice. I will deal specifically with a few questions. I don't know how rulers do that with all those papers; it's kind of a mess with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u131	Then you can see with your own eyes how difficult that can sometimes be for directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u132	I think my employees think: yes, that is very recognizable. Mr Markuszower made a point of the code of conduct. It couldn't be. Colleagues would be silenced. All words in which I and myself absolutely do not recognize the Presidium. The code of conduct contains the rules we now have. We just figured it out. It's a kind of accumulation of existing rules. There's no new behavior rule in between. These are all rules already listed in the Rules of Procedure. If you say it's new, I want to know exactly what rule you're referring to. There's nothing new in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u133	There is a question from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u134	What may be new in the future is the open-ended arrangement under point 5: "The MP acts in accordance with the rules of the Chamber." This is particularly important if someone in the Netherlands or abroad finds that this may not be the case. As Mr Bishop said, who decides what is "the public interest"? So the fear is a bit that someone, anywhere in the world, can complain and that the board of enforcement and supervision is going to abuse it with that open-ended clause of paragraph 5. Maybe the codes like the Presidium that has now written down are nothing new, but the enforcement on them is definitely new.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u135	But then that's very clear. You said that the new codes of conduct were devised by the Bureau and those MPs were silenced. I think you said that literally. I would say that is not the case. They are not new codes of conduct; they are all rules that have been applicable to us for years, including the rule you have just mentioned. The only thing we've done is to put them in a clear position, so that when they're sworn in, MPs can see exactly what rules apply to them. The other point, about enforcement, is new. That's why we're here. That is on the basis of Mr Van der Molen's motion. GRECO and previous MPs criticised our enforcement rules. That's kind of new. We'll talk about that now. I'm going straight to the point about how we handle these complaints. That is not the only point you mentioned; Mr Van Gent and Mr Bishop have actually asked for it. The complaints are made by citizens. Citizens can send an e-mail or a letter to the college I will come back to that later with a complaint about a Member of Parliament. There's nothing wrong with that, because first of all, the college is not going to deal with anonymous letters. If there's a complaint, it'll just be investigated. Is it substantiated? Does it mean the code of conduct that we have agreed to? So if a Member of Parliament drives through the red light, I'm just gonna call it "what do you want to do?" you've got other routes for that. I should not mention examples, because they are too dangerous in this discussion, but well, if it is outside the private situation or whatever. But the college can simply study these complaints and then assess whether those complaints are justified or not. And you have to back that up. Nor is it intended that an angry neighbor arguing with a Member of Parliament because the fence is too high, thinks: I am going to the college. Then the college says: we do not, we are not about that, we are about the codes of conduct that we have agreed here, internally, with each other. If this does not cover the complaint, it will not be dealt with. Well, that's for sure. Nor is it a new way of dealing with complaints for citizens. We have the Committee on Petitions. There are also a lot of citizens' complaints coming in. And the Committee on Petitions also checks whether the complaints are justified or not, and which committee is responsible for them. Citizens receive a proper letter back with the procedure and with exactly where they should be. The same goes for the college. It is indeed very important to have a look at it and also to have it monitored and monitored. The first year you will be able to see whether it works or not. I will come to that later, but it is important to monitor it and perhaps also to involve it in the evaluation. But I'm not really so worried about these complaints. I see that Mr Van Gent has a question, but I cannot give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u136	There is a question from Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u137	I have a question about the Committee on Petitions. Does all this apply to Dutch citizens, or can citizens also submit petitions worldwide? Because that will then be a distinction for this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u138	I don't really know. I do know that a lot of normal Dutch citizens are complaining, but it may be that there are complaints coming from abroad as well. I'd have to find out. I also think that citizens may well be right. There may well be a complaint about a Member of Parliament who, for example, has accepted money; that is possible. So it's not like "citizens complaining, we shouldn't want to" and "it's all bullshit." It's got to be obvious. Nor should the complainant be anonymous. And it must be substantiated when such a college thinks: this complaint gives reason to take action, for example. Then the first thing such a college does is engage in a conversation with the relevant MP. It also asks the MP "Goh, what's going on here? This is what we got, a complaint, and these are the allegations," or whatever. The MP also has the right and the space to do his or her story. So it's not like you're complaining and we're gonna run for you. It is also important that such a Member of Parliament can defend himself and defend himself. Mrs Özütok mentioned an important source of complaints: they could also be employees. It could be. There was an interruption debate between Mr Bishop and Mrs Özütok. It is true that employees can also lodge a complaint. Of course, employees can also tell their stories to a trusted person, but we also know that confidential persons have a duty of confidentiality; they cannot go beyond referrals. So it's important that it's for everyone, including employees. It may also be that people do not want it to be discussed internally, but at such an independent college. That's what I'm saying about the complaints. If the College has dealt with the complaint and the MP is asked about her or his opinion on it, it may also be that it stays with a conversation. We don't even need to know that. That'll be in the report, but anonymously. It may be that the college thinks: the MP hasn't registered something, but they're going to correct it right away. Then it's done. Sometimes it is also the case that a lot is said about it in the media, and such a college says "it is solved." The MP can tell that for her or for himself, like: I have discussed it and I am not blamed. Then the name of the MP can be cleared. That is also important in life, that not everything that is said can be true every time. If there's more to it, you'll be heard again and again. It may be that the Member of Parliament is persevering, and that there is more to it. In that case, it is important that such a college conducts an investigation and that the Member of Parliament should also cooperate fully with the College. And when that's done, a draft report will be prepared. Such a report shall also be submitted to the Member of Parliament so that the Member of Parliament is given the opportunity to give his or her views on it. This view is also taken into account in the reporting. He will be processed and presented to the Bureau. If such a report is submitted to the Bureau, that is a recommendation. The College therefore does not impose sanctions. Nor does the Bureau have the power to impose sanctions on Members of Parliament. All the Bureau does is send such a report to the Chamber with the recommendation of the College. In the end, it is the Chamber that decides whether it is an indication, a reprimand or a suspension. I see Mr Bishop. Yeah, I'm gonna have to lose that. I'm not the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u139	Sure. You're in "K" now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u140	Yeah, sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u141	But Mr Bishop is not yet in the greatest hurry. At this point, Mr. Bishop. I also look a little at the clock and at the afternoon schedule. I do not want to confuse that, I say to the President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u142	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr. Bishop, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u144	Maybe just a little clarification. I think I read in the regulation monitoring and enforcement that the committee's opinion is indeed coming into the Bureau. The Bureau shall pass it on to the Chamber and then, without consultation, the Chamber shall impose the penalty proposed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u145	The recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u146	Or does the Bureau, or the Chamber, still have an independent opportunity to make another assessment, to depart from the sanction proposed by the committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u147	The President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u148	I didn't think there was any such possibility. I would like to put a question mark on this automatism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u149	The Bureau will simply forward the report to the Chamber. It may be important to note that in that report the confidential documents or phrases relating to privacy or whatever are not disclosed, but the rest are. If the Member of Parliament does not agree, the Member of Parliament shall have the opportunity to appeal within two weeks. That is what Mr Sneller has put forward, but we have almost completely accepted it in the Bureau. If that happens and the Member of Parliament appeals, then the Presidium is asking me to answer your question at that time: 'A temporary college, a college of appeal'. Such a college is made up of externals, not MPs. That temporary college looks at whether such an investigation, recommendation, is reasonable or not reasonable and reports back to the Bureau. The Bureau then again directs the proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u150	But did I read in that arrangement how it works at the Bureau? I simply read: the committee advises the Bureau, the Bureau directs the proposal with a letter, including the recommended sanction, and the Chamber then decides without deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u151	Yeah, that's the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u152	But there's still a temporary commission in between, in the practice of the Presidium?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u153	Yes. Suppose the Member of Parliament does not agree with the recommendation of the College and the Member of Parliament does not accept or considers that her or his contribution has not been sufficiently taken into account in the report. Then the Bureau sets up a temporary college of appeal, consisting of external experts, who look at the procedure and make a kind of judgment about it: did it go well or did it not go well; is it reasonable or not reasonable? Then it comes to the Bureau, and the Bureau makes it public, with the understanding that everything that is confidential in relation to the person is omitted, and leads it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u154	Third question. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u155	But I understand that the Court then weighs independently whether or not the sanction should be applied. That's not an automatic version. My question is how this can be done without consultation, without debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u156	In fact, you come to what Mr Markuszower said in his speech, namely that there is a debate here in the Chamber. Neither do we, unless you decide as a room. But we try to set up as carefully as possible a procedure whereby hearing and hearing is applied, where care is applied, and where we try not to harm the privacy or prestige of someone. If all that is done, perhaps a recommendation is made for a suspension, sanction, designation or reprimand. We believe that the Chamber can simply vote on this in a majority or not. I do not wish to support the proposal for a debate on this subject. To make a point of order, I am not here on behalf of the government. I'm the President of the Chamber. I'm trying to explain something, but in the end it's up to the Chamber to choose whether or not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u157	Last question, Mr. Bishop. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u158	Last question, Mr. Chairman, with your permission. I am concerned about the care taken by the procedure. I agree with you that there should be no public debate on the committee's opinion or the legality of the Bureau's review. That is why it must be properly arranged in advance, so that there is no longer a need for a debate in the Chamber on the behaviour of a colleague. I would like to ask the Bureau to take another look at the impact, so that the need for such a debate is simply not there and it is rational to say: 'No, we are not debating this. We have looked at it independently as a Presidium in the preliminary stage, after the committee's opinion has been received. We have set up a temporary committee, and I can imagine that it is made up of members of the Chamber who have weighed and looked at it." The same applies to a profession. So I'd take another look at that detailing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u159	I think we've clearly included that. If that was not clear, I hope that is the case. But it has been deliberately chosen that there is no debate. In my view, this is also literally stated in the rules on enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u160	A question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u161	Now I am confused, because Mr Bishop is talking about an independent consideration of the Bureau to set up a college, or to carry it through. The passing of the reports to the Chamber is, in my opinion, an automatism, not an independent competence or consideration of the Bureau. The establishment of an appeal procedure shall also take place on the basis of the person against whom the complaint has been lodged and on whom the reporting is to be made. It is not up to the Bureau to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u162	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u163	You'll continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u164	Let's see. What questions have you been asking me? This is what we've been through. There was a question from Mr Van Gent. What a luxury that answer is being presented to me. Can people from abroad also file a complaint? That is the case in principle, but an application must be made on a matter concerning a Member of Parliament. So the point is that it must relate to something that we in the Netherlands have agreed with each other. Then there was a question, in my view, from Mr Bishop, that Members of Parliament were actually elected. They have taken the oath and they have a mandate, and it is up to the electorate to settle such a member of parliament in the elections or not. Yes, it is. Members of parliament have a mandate to function for four years without burden. But that's not a free pass for MPs to violate rules or undermine trust in the Chamber. If a representative of the people has a mandate, voters also want to be able to trust that such a representative of the people complies with all the rules and respects them. That is why it is important that we see all around us that everyone has to comply with these rules and that if they are not complied with, sanctions should be imposed. Mrs Kuik asked how, for example, a sanction imposed by the group or the party relates to a sanction of the college. You can always do that. In the past, that's what happened. Firstly, it is important that we establish a kind of general rules and frameworks with each other, and that we lay down rules to monitor them. One group does not do it and the other group does not, but in the end it refers back to the whole Parliament. But it may also be the case that a group, before there is a complaint or anything at all, is already considering it. Measures may then be taken against the Member of Parliament concerned. That has happened in the past. Then that's done, because then the college won't look at that again. The MP will be suspended by then. Then the college doesn't have a complaint to investigate at that time, unless there's more to it. But that's up to the college.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u165	I fully agree with our President that, of course, there is no immunity for Members of Parliament and that they must also comply with the rules. However, I would like to come back to the sanctions. Surely the First Chamber is quite sure in its code of conduct that the suspension does not tolerate the constitutionally anchored free mandate of members? In fact, we are going to introduce it now. Now I know that the Senate sometimes makes a different decision than the House of Representatives; they also have that right. But we are talking about the same Constitution and the same position, namely that of parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u166	That question has indeed been asked by Mr Van Otterloo. The First Chamber and the Second Chamber can each draw up their own rules, because we sometimes have different standards than the First Chamber. Because it's a post, but MPs actually have a more than full-time job. The First Chamber members are MPs one day a week and besides that they have other things. We may have similarities, but we may also have differences. I'm not ruling that out at all. However, the Constitution instructs the Chamber to adopt a Rules of Procedure. We have that freedom. This also gives the Chamber the power to determine the establishment, organisation and working methods of the Chamber itself. That may indeed be different from the First Chamber. Thus, a power to lay down further arrangements for the constitutional posts of the Chamber may be part of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a contradiction. They have given a different interpretation of this, but for us there is that possibility, and we have that competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u167	I have another enlightening question in response to an answer that has been given. Suppose a MP commits an offence, a complaint is filed and the college looks at it. The President of the Bureau just said that a group could have taken a step in this direction, and that the College could not be discussed again. In this case, let me get this straight. A member of a political group may commit an offence and the political group may decide to expel the member of parliament from the political group. That is an internal sanction, but that still leaves the individual Member of Parliament with the infringement that the College could look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u168	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u169	Because the mere fact that someone is expelled from the group does not relieve you of the offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u170	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u171	I think it's okay to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u172	Yes, it's very good of you to say that. That's for sure. I totally agree with you. Maybe I put it a little short. There was also a question from Mrs Özütok. What if a false accusation is brought to the college? If a Member of Parliament is confronted with a false accusation that does not in itself lead to a complaint, this Member of Parliament may also refer the matter to the Integrity Adviser. That is not quite mentioned here, but such an advisor also has a very important confidential function towards the Members of Parliament and can advise a Member of Parliament. The advice of the Member's advisor can be made public, but it is really intended that such an advisor can play an important role in this. The question about the periodic evaluation was raised by several colleagues. The College shall issue an annual report to the Bureau. Following these annual reports, the Bureau may decide, for example, to make the proposal to amend such a scheme. That is also possible with the estimates from the Members of Parliament. That happens every year. But given the discussion we are having here, I do not think it is a bad idea at all to follow such a new approach, with many colleagues feeling that it is going very far. If there is something, it can be discussed in good time and can be evaluated. I think it's a good idea to do that. Then we can also learn from practice, for example about these complaints. You have to take that with you. If there's gonna be thousands of complaints, which I don't expect at all, how do you deal with them? Then you shouldn't wait until the annual report, but then you should be able to say in the meantime, "God, we have to do it differently."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u173	Obviously. There is a question from Mrs Özütok. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u174	I have one more enlightening question. Does the President-in-Office intend to include this in those regulations? I am considering an amendment in this area. Should I continue on that course? Or can the working group itself include an evaluation clause?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u175	My position is a little tricky, because I am here as President of the Chamber but I am also just a Member of Parliament. So I don't think I should make a judgment, in the sense of: dissuade or whatever. If the House wishes to table an amendment, that is fine. Then it'll just be determined by the Chamber and then we'll just take it with us. Mr Sneller also had a question. I understand very well that an investigation should not take too long, because then there is something hanging over the head of such a Member of Parliament and everyone has an opinion on it. I couldn't agree more. So I think it's really the intention to do an investigation as soon as possible. That must of course be done properly. It has to be done carefully. Such a college gets all the support to function carefully, but also not to be endless about it. 'Cause we know what it means when someone's really going to dangle and if it's not clear what's going on. So it has to be done very quickly; let me put it this way. Of course, this also depends on the complaint and the impact. One complaint may take maybe four weeks and the other six weeks, but it should not last very long. There was also a question, in my view, from Mrs Kuiken, but Mr Markuszower also said something about this, in the sense that all of these Members can also be members of the elite. The college must consist of three people. I saw in the newspaper the name of our advisor, Mrs. Jacqueline Biesheuvel, as chairman, but that is not true at all. She can't be chairman of the college at all if she advises us confidentially as MPs. So I have no idea how that got in the paper. The College shall also be referred to the Chamber. In doing so, we really need to look at independent people, externally, not tied to one or other pronounced political direction and so on. That too is up to the Chamber, to be or not to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u176	Could the President perhaps explain why Members of the Chamber are later bound by a code of conduct and are therefore subject to its enforcement and monitoring and why the members of the College are not bound by a code of conduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u177	I do not know whether we have been explicit about this, but it is a point of attention that it must be people of unspoken behaviour and that the members of the College who supervise the behaviour should also be able to comply with all kinds of rules, norms and values that apply to us but also to them. I think so, but I am now thinking out loud that, before such a college is formed, it is really necessary to look at what Members have to meet and what they have to stick to. This must also be done in the Chamber, in the Committee on the Interior or in another working group. We do not want a college that is thought in advance: well, they are friends of those or they are themselves like that. We'll basically undermine our own proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u178	I understand that, but the appointment is for six years, and of course it may well be that in those six years someone who is at the time of the appointment of the College of Unspoken Behaviour, something happens that does not leave the behavior unspoken. It may also be that the composition of the Chamber changes in those six years, and that a member of the College suddenly has a certain relationship, not necessarily sexually, with a Member of Parliament on which he has to judge. In other words, who controls the inspector? In Dutch criminal law, for example, you can avenge a judge. Those possibilities aren't here. What is the President's view of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u179	I think it's important that people know for what period they're appointed. I hope that will also give some independence, so that people do not think: I have to do my best for a year, otherwise I will not be appointed anymore. That's what you're trying to prevent. We also do this here in our internal organisation when we appoint clerks or management members: that goes for six years. But if someone is misbehaving during that journey or if there are complaints, then it is always so that... We don't want that. Then I am sure that we in the Chamber can say: this is not good and it is important that we take someone else. That should be possible, but I can't imagine people in such a position all kinds of... Because then they will also be part of the discussion, and we do not want them to be. But again, it's really something for the elaboration. I also invite Mr Markuszower to think about this. I've already answered the question about the First Chamber. Mr Van der Molen's question was: from what date are the codes of conduct and the rules applicable? I believe that this question also came from Mr Sneller. The code of conduct is not new; that is what I have just said. What's in there already applies. The scheme applies only to conduct following the entry into force of the scheme. It shall enter into force as soon as it is adopted by the Chamber, unless I say so again to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u181	Two brief questions about that. One. We were just talking about the members of the college. If we vote on this on 22 September, the regulation will apply from then on. Are the members of the College also submitted by the Bureau in the same vote? Otherwise, we're gonna have an arrangement without a college. That's one question. The other question is the following. It shall apply to infringements from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. But if, for example, my data in the public registers were incomplete, does it go back to the beginning of my parliamentary membership or is it just about incompleteness from the moment the scheme enters into force? I already had that duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u182	Well, I'm not going to... I know Mr Sneller: he is very precise. So I will come back to that, because then I know exactly when and how. These are legitimate questions, indeed, about the entry into force, the date and so on and what is related to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u183	I am looking at the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u184	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u185	Yeah? Ah, well. Perhaps another opinion on the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u186	Oh, yeah. That's a very good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u187	Two amendments have been tabled, namely No. 6 and in part No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u188	That's right. I'll get them. On the amendment tabled by Mr Van Gent and Mr Bishop in respect of item No. 6 has been said a great deal by other colleagues in interruptions. Pursuant to Rule 145 of our Rules of Procedure, a Member may already be excluded from all meetings or from one or more committees. So it's not new. The proposed sanction of suspension is actually much more flexible. Such a college can indeed give a clue, give a reprimand or impose a suspension, as far as we are concerned, a suspension of up to one month and then, of course, with the exception of the voting rights of the Member of Parliament. But it is also possible that a Member of Parliament may not be allowed to attend working visits or to attend certain committee meetings for one week. So this is really the limit. I think it is important to maintain that sanction, because otherwise we will have rules but they will remain non-binding. I think it is clear how we, the Bureau, feel about this, but it is ultimately the Chamber that decides on the amendments. So I'm not saying "judge Chamber" or "I'm going to dissuade it," because I don't have that position; I'm Chairman of yours. So it's up to the Chamber. On the amendment tabled by Mr Van Gent and Mr Bishop in respect of item No. I have said what is necessary. That amendment concerns the number of complaints. Citizens are allowed to file complaints. There's just going to be a sieve, in the form of the college that oversees enforcement. I think that's important. So I am absolutely not afraid that all kinds of complaints will be dealt with. They are simply checked whether or not they are justified, as is the case with the Working Method Committee. I am incredibly reluctant to allow colleagues to turn each other in if they suspect that something inauspicious has been done. I don't like politics. I also believe that we, as colleagues, should stay far from that. That's my opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u189	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office of the President of the Chamber on behalf of the Bureau. I will see if there is a need for a second term among Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u190	Mr Sneller's question, may I also answer it in writing? Before the votes, I hear Mr Sneller say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u191	Let me take a look at the Members. Is there a need for a second term? There was another question from Mr Sneller, which was discussed and discussed for a while. I have heard Mr Sneller say that this can also be done in writing, as long as it is done before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u192	Yeah, before September 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u193	So that's what happens. Then I'll look again. Is there anyone who needs a second term? Yes, I see Mr Van Otterloo. One more question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u194	About the lobbyists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u195	I have mentioned a few examples and I understand the problem that the college is not yet there, but I had a little more feeling about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u196	Could you turn the microphone up a little bit more? Yeah, that's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u197	I would have liked to have a little more sense of this, because I have mentioned a number of examples which are really at the limit of what political positions are and which also applies as a form of reward for past work. And I asked a question about the influence of conspiracy theories and the like. Because it could completely upset the system if we still have to deal with that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u198	Yes. Perhaps a brief response from the President of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u199	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I have had to refrain from giving examples and at the same time not going into examples, because then it will be a very different type of discussion. I think that we, the Bureau, should simply carry out a motion in which we are asked to come forward with proposals to regulate enforcement. We did, and the proposals are in the Chamber. I understand very well the examples you mention, but it is ultimately up to the Chamber to feel that way. I do not really want to go into that as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u200	It wasn't the feeling of the Chamber that mattered to me, it was the operation of the college. The college is about to receive messages and signals. There are signs that need to be removed because, in the opinion of the College, they do not apply to the work of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u201	The College is monitoring compliance with the code of conduct we have now agreed on. So if there are complaints about a fight or whatever, you just have a different trajectory for that. Then we need to file a report, the Public Prosecutor's Office comes into the picture and, if necessary, criminal prosecutions. So that's another route. The College simply has the responsibility and the power to ensure that the rules we have had here for a long time are applied in practice. If one deviates from that, the College's working methods will be set in motion, which we have just discussed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr Van Otterloo, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u203	Yeah, rounding it up. Those weren't the examples I used. For example, I mentioned the e-mail bombing about De Jonge. Just because it's a minister, I could use this. Those kind of stories. I think it would be very difficult for the work of the college if all this had to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u204	Finalizing, the President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u205	Again, the college is going to investigate when there is a valid reason to do that research. So all kinds of things can be called on social media, which is happening now too, but the college is taking action when there is a concrete thing, a complaint, not something anonymous. It will then be discussed with the relevant MP. Anonymous letters, accusations or accusations against MPs are not dealt with in any way. On the basis of initial conversations, the College indicates whether there is nothing wrong with it, whether it is nonsense or whether there is reason to continue. It will also prove itself in practice. Maybe you're right, Mr Van Otterloo, but we'll see that when we get to work on that in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u206	Clear, thank you very much. I note that this has come at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-3.u207	The vote on the proposal and the amendments tabled will take place on Tuesday 22 September. So Tuesday in a week. I should like to thank the President of the Chamber and the Presidium and the Bureau for their presence and contribution. Thank you, of course, to the Members of Parliament for their input into this debate. Thank you to the people in the public gallery for their interest in this subject. The same applies, of course, to the people at home. I would now like to suspend the sitting for half an hour. That means we'll start the afternoon meeting again at 1:45 p.m.
