ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK, for his questions to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is actually replacing the Minister for the Environment and Housing. The questions relate to unanswered written questions concerning the judgment of the canton court in respect of Vestia. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we have not received a reply in time to the questions I have asked, so that is why I am doing it this way. The housing in the Netherlands is under pressure. We had a good debate on that last week. We have a huge housing shortage. Some call it a housing crisis. Some people have to wait 15 years for social housing. As if that weren't enough, the rents are rising so much that more and more people are saying: we just can't afford it anymore While the social housing market is really locked, housing corporations, such as the housing corporation Vestia, in Rotterdam, in the Tweebosbuurt, decide to demolish. Good amenities, good social rentals should be demolished, 535 units in this case. Social, right-wing shit policy. I can't believe the city approved that. We then see that the shortage of social housing continues. The current residents of the Tweebos neighborhood came in the rifle and said, just to put it to its Rotterdams: "We are not going to be able to do this. We're going to ask the judge for a ruling." The judge ruled and said: Vestia did not involve the people well, Vestia did not offer to accompany them to another home and Vestia did not say that those people could return to a home that is being replaced. The judge said, "That's not gonna happen. I don't approve of that seventeen." DENK welcomes this statement. I would like to know from the Minister: does the Minister share the view that Vestia's plans to demolish hundreds of social housing in the Tweebos neighborhood can no longer be found because of the ruling of the canton court? And how does he feel about Vestia appealing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Azarkan for asking these questions. It was indeed intended that your written questions should have been answered. There has also been a delay. However, the procedure is that if this does not happen in time, I can still answer these questions here, in this case on behalf of my colleague for Environment and Living. The questions were asked on 17 January. This is a complex case, because the case that Mr Azarkan is talking about is about a neighbourhood in Rotterdam, part of the Rotterdam Zuid National Programme, where everything is done to create quality of life and affordable housing in Rotterdam. There is also a huge housing shortage in a city like Rotterdam. This is a task that is much broader than just the city of Rotterdam, but I would like to focus on this case because of the specific question. It is based on the housing vision established by the city council of Rotterdam. That is also the way we work: housing corporations come together with municipalities, in this case also with the Rotterdam Zuid National Programme, to a plan of action to make possible the tasks that exist, to realize affordable homes for the nurse and the police officer. Then it is true that in certain situations you have to decide to demolish, to eventually rebuild new homes for that. That's how it works in people's housing. This also means that some people, who do not need to leave at all, have to live elsewhere at that time. The corporation has a duty to provide these people with adequate temporary or permanent accommodation. That's what rules apply. It is also possible to appeal against it. For that, you can go to the Rent Commission or to the judge. In two situations, the judge referred to the same case-law as the case-law. In the judge's first ruling, Vestia was right. The second ruling was contradictory and led to the fact that Vestia was unsuccessful. This also means that until then the plans for this specific situation, as long as the lawsuit is going on, will not stand. It does not suit me in this position, not as Minister of the Interior, but also as a substitute for the colleague for Environment and Living, to rule on a case that is still under trial. Mr Azarkan asked what I think of Vestia's appeal. Anyone in a rule of law is, of course, free to appeal if he or she believes that the ruling does not fit in with the policy and legislation we know. So we have to wait and see. At the same time, I would add: there are simply rules of the game, including protection for the tenant. We deal with this extremely carefully. But I say very strongly that I also attach great importance to the fact that when it is decided at democratic level, at local level, to carry out such a great task, which is also done in a good way. And Rotterdam-Zuid is really a big task; the Empire has been behind this programme for a reason. Then there will also have to be demolished once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I suspect the Minister doesn't have the right information, because he started with the idea that this will lead to better housing and affordable living. The conclusion is that the restructuring envisaged by Vestia results in a reduction in supply in the lowest category of 347 homes. So this is not an improvement at all for the group that is having such a difficult time. I would like to know from the Minister whether, as a replacement, he is going to direct the housing shortage, the housing crisis, or simply stand aside and say that we live in a democratic state in which everyone can go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	The last thing, standing aside, is not my natural attitude. I do value sovereignty, in the sense that in this case the municipal council is competent to draw up a housing vision and make its own choices, in the same spirit and conviction that more needs to be done to alleviate the housing shortage. Then you come up with proposals, with plans, making sure that the quality of life in the neighborhoods also takes shape in such a way that you have different categories of housing and that you arrange adequate accommodation for the people who do not want to move. There's just rules for that, so that has to be done right. Eventually, I say in this case too, without interfering in the specific situation, there is a judge who has given a ruling. We respect that judgment, but there has been an appeal. As long as that case goes on, we'll have to wait and see and these people won't have to leave. In the end, the appeal court will have to assess whether the decision is justified or not. With regard to the other questions put by Mr Azarkan, I can tell him that I understand from Mr Van Veldhoven that she will be sending the answers to the questions this week. The reason it took longer is that we also had to coordinate with a number of parties involved in this project.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mr President. We have, of course, seen that in the case of Valkenburg there has been interference from the central government, because we have a big problem from the perspective that we have a shortage of homes and that we simply need to build them. I hear it almost in every debate: building, building, building. And not to tear it down, to tear it down, to tear it down. If this goes against the policy, we are also looking in Utrecht to see if we can exert pressure with a clue or threaten with it.What makes the Minister not say: but something is fundamentally wrong here, here we are removing good social housing? In fact, a judge also says, "This is just not good." And then the minister says, "I'm gonna stand aside and I'm gonna wait for the trial?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, no, but let me just say that this is how it works in the rule of law. It is not for me to make statements about this case at this time. In general, I can say that the opposite is true. We're not on the sidelines. Colleague Van Veldhoven and colleague Ollongren have made an extraordinary effort to realise this project. There have been many debates in the Chamber. I'd like to add something else. If you want to restructure in existing urban areas, it's extremely complex. You can't do that without sliding off occasionally, by taking out homes and adding other, new qualities. Some homes are also just at the end of their lifetime. The case of Valkenburg, which Mr Azarkan refers to, is an essentially different one. That is a territory that is largely owned by the State Real Estate Company, that is to say, the government. So there we have a role as owner. Besides, there are no houses there, so you can all build new homes there. That's relatively simple, especially if you sell it against the complex situation in Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	Not only the Vestia tenants in the Tweebos neighborhood, but thousands of Vestia tenants are in a dramatic situation. The SP has started a hotline, a blackbook. We already have over 1,000 complaints, from complaints about sickening fungus to complaints from people who haven't had working heating for over a year. Rear maintenance, but rent increase every year on rent increase. It's not just one set of unanswered questions. I have three, none of which are answered. While the Constitution says that people deserve a good house, the cabinet, I say through the President, still does not intervene with Vestia. This is a political problem. What do you say, I'd like to ask the tenants of Vestia? When are you really going to intervene? We can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	I do not know the specific questions raised by Mrs Beckerman. I stand here instead of my colleague, so I must remain guilty. However, I would like to say that every tenant has the opportunity to go to the Rent Commission and also to go to court, in case there are complaints about how the landlord deals with the housing situation. That is what I can say about it in general terms. The cabinet attaches extraordinary importance to good consultation with corporations. Where things are not going well, it is precisely because of the instruments that we have that also corporations are being corrected where they are not doing it properly. I will be the last to say that no mistakes are made, but we should not make the picture that it is not good everywhere. It's going really well in a lot of places. Corporates have a very important social task to accomplish precisely in that urban area those tasks together with other parties, with private parties. They can't do that alone. They need the government for that, too. Mr Van Veldhoven has already indicated that we will do everything we can to deal with the housing shortage that exists, particularly in the Randstad, but also increasingly in other areas. We'll do that together with the municipalities and the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	And if there are unanswered written questions, perhaps the Minister could pass this on to the Minister for the Environment and Living. Otherwise, you'll be back here next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	I will, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll vote.
