ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the closure of clinical obstetrics in hospitals in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen. I would like to welcome the Minister for Medical Care and the Members of Parliament, of course. I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is three minutes. We've just agreed that we have two interruptions, or we can also ask four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. It was Janny Rijnberg, a nurse of the Refaja too much. She cried with tears at the disappearance of the emergency services in the Refaja in Stadskanaal. She worked there for 43 years. She's seen the hospital grow from nothing to a modern hospital, and now it's crumbling under her hands. How is that possible, you wonder, because in those 43 years our economy has quadrupled. And then we wouldn't be able to keep hospitals up in City Canal and Hoogeveen? I speak to a midwife from the first line and I hear the following. More unplanned home births because the hospital with acute obstetrics is too far away, for example in a mother with a history of massive bleeding during a previous delivery. Increasing stress on mother and midwife in home delivery. Capacity problems in hospitals. After a C-section, a mother has to leave the hospital after five days because there is no room. She has to go back and forth to the hospital because her baby's still there. A mother who has given birth prematurely to a child of 34 weeks has to go home after nine days because there is no room and has to drive back and forth for 45 minutes for ten days, because her child is still there. If the child can go home, the mother is already demolished, while the broken nights have yet to begin. Take care of it in 2020. Minister, aren't you ashamed of that? 'Cause you're gonna let this happen. The health insurance companies refuse to follow the preferred insurer when it comes to paying surcharges, because the first-line obstetricians now have to run double occupancy services. So acute obstetrics is gone from the hospitals and the obstetrics are presented with a double bill instead of the health insurance companies being honest with them. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Because he promised that health insurers would follow the preferred insurer on these issues. The minister's been in Drenthe a lot lately, I understand. What did he do there, anyway? Because the dismantling of the hospitals there just goes on. What is he going to do to prevent the dismantling of Bethesda in Hoogeveen and the Refaja in Stadskanaal? The management of Treant continues with the dismantling, with the support of the commercial insurers, because they do not shed tears on the destruction of the hospitals there. But doesn't the Minister think that the emergency and acute obstetrics should be returned to both hospitals? Regional images are being made. Is the Minister prepared to set up a scenario in which these hospitals will become fully-fledged and emergency services and acute obstetrics will return? Drenthe and South-East Groningen are areas where there are major problems, where people die seven to eight years earlier and where many people don't have cars. These regions, too, deserve a full hospital. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Gerven. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will also make my contribution on behalf of the Labour Party. On 15 October 2018, the pediatrics and gynecology departments in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen closed. Today, on 15 January 2020, quite a bit later, we are talking about this as a Chamber. You might wonder why we're still talking about this now, so long after the closure of these departments. But I would say that this debate is also an opportunity at the moment. Since there was so much time in between, we can now actually evaluate the effects of the closure of these departments. We've been asking around among those involved. It seems that the quality of care after the closure of these sections has not been compromised. But the continuity of quality was absolutely not self-evident. About everyone involved has had to work very hard to make things work, especially since the closure had to be done so quickly. Where have we heard this before, I'd say. There's another pain point. In the children's department, the total number of beds has decreased. As a result, children need to be transferred to peak moments or sent home too early. And of course you don't want to. My first questions to the Minister are therefore the following. How does the Minister evaluate the closure of these sections? What lessons did he learn from that? And what went well and what went less well? Mr. Chairman. In the light of the stories we hear about this, the other scenarios and the situations surrounding the closing of the sections, I wonder if it would not be an idea to draw up some sort of protocol. Is there a protocol yet? And if not, could we not take the lessons learned from other mergers in a smarter way, so that we don't have to reinvent the wheel every time? I was also wondering if it would be useful to have a protocol that describes how to involve patients, residents, nurses and doctors as well as possible and how to integrate different departments. This is, of course, a recurring complaint: it concerns different cultures of departments and hospitals. How do you do that smartly? But that is also a protocol that sets out a good timetable. Because the speed with which this goes often leads to a lot of misery and to a lot of extra pressure on the professionals. That is often the biggest problem or one of the biggest problems. What kind of supervisor could monitor this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to talk about the availability of care in the region now, because now the emergency aid is being reduced. We can see that a care table has been set up in this region. There are very nice, innovative things happening and there is a lot of mutual consultation, which should ensure the quality and accessibility of care. For example, an ambulance has been added in the region. Barren women can get a taxi refund and for obstetricians there is an extra guard. But there are other initiatives that need to improve the quality of care, such as the track-and-trace system for healthcare professionals. That, I think, is a good example of innovation. I ask the Minister how he contributes to these innovations. What does he see as his role in that? What more does he want to do to improve the availability of care in the region? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr Van Gerven has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u6	GroenLinks rightly notes that there have been no calamities following the disappearance of acute obstetrics and, in part, emergency aid from the hospitals in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen, but also that this has cost an enormous amount of effort. Shouldn't you conclude that it's not a sustainable system after all? I can do it, but there's a lot of crumb involved. In the long run, that's gonna go wrong sometime. Isn't the conclusion that in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal, for example, acute obstetrics has to come back? How does GroenLinks feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u7	What I'm actually trying to say is that the way things are going right now isn't good enough and should be better. We cannot rely entirely on doctors and nurses every time to ensure that there are no calamities. We and the Minister have a responsibility: if we want to change something in the care landscape, we must ensure that this is done in a responsible way. The difference between GroenLinks and the SP may be the following. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is not necessarily wrong when things change. I'm not necessarily in favour of changes in hospital care. You can organize care closer. You can set up a neighborhood clinic. I am not necessarily opposed to this, but I am opposed to this happening head-on and to placing the full responsibility on the healthcare providers. There's gotta be another way. And that's what I'm asking the Minister. What does he want to do to prevent this situation and the way it happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. The SP is not against change, but it is against deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u9	We'll share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u10	And my question is very specific: is GroenLinks for the return of acute obstetrics in Hoogeveen, yes or no? For the obstetricians indicate that this is not a desirable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u11	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u12	Yes, Mr. Chairman. What matters to me, is that this obstetrician care must be well protected in the region. And if healthcare professionals now state that they are not, I ask the Minister: what is he going to do about it, how does he see his responsibility to improve it? So I'm not saying it has to be in a hospital. I will say: in all regions, all women must have access to good acute midwifery care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 13 June 2018, we had the debate about the announcement that the Treant Zorggroep wanted to move the clinical obstetrics and pediatrics departments from Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal to Scheper Hospital in Emmen. And in September 2018 the final announcement came. Recently, the emergency departments in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen have also almost disappeared. Mr. Chairman. Care must be available, affordable and accessible, including in the region. In my own initiative paper on care in the region, I indicated that cooperation is essential in order to achieve this. In Drenthe healthcare providers are now working on a coordination plan for care. Citizens can then go to one point of contact; there is overview and insight across the entire chain of Drenthe care, using digital innovations and working together differently, across the domains. ActiZ already indicated in 2008 that only 40% of the emergency care intakes of the elderly are necessary medical specialist care, and that otherwise work can therefore yield a lot. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this further with the Drentse Zorgtable? And are there any legal obstacles to achieving this project? The Minister, in his draft General Measure of Management, is obliged to consult with a planned decision in the acute care sector. We asked this as a CDA in 2018, and the Minister also started it: mandatory consultation with the chain partners and with the regional directors. But is the Minister prepared to further adapt this General Measure of Governance, so that there is continuous consultation on acute care with chain partners and regional directors? Because we do not believe that it can be said that I have now made a decision, and we also trust that it will be okay. At the beginning of 2019 I already indicated that the ambulance service has to do twice a day with the fact that a hospital is full, has a stop. At the request of the CDA, the Minister would further identify the number of hospital stops. How's that going? Because we did get a letter in September about four regions, but we do not think that there are any detailed figures yet. Because emergency departments have now fallen away, and so there has to be even more driving. Can the Minister explain how the new situation is now working for the inhabitants? Mr. Chairman. Dr. Menno Gaaakeer, the ER doctor at the Adrz Hospital in Goes, recently obtained his PhD on the optimisation of emergency care in the Netherlands. He questioned the fact that a concentration of emergency services would make emergency care better and more affordable. And he states that there is no scientific evidence that more volume leads to a higher quality of emergency care. In fact, the quality is not measured. The CDA has therefore already argued for a mandatory link to the quality registration of the NEED, the Netherlands Emergency Department Evaluation Database. Is the Minister prepared to send a first evaluation to the House of Representatives on the situation in Drenthe and South-East Groningen before the summer? And, finally, what about the adjustment of public transport? Is the Minister prepared, in conversation with his colleague from IenW, to draw the attention of the provinces to this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u15	The SP was pleasantly surprised when the CDA voted for the motion to keep the hospital in full glory in Winterswijk. However, I do not hear Mrs Van den Berg here talking about the direct cause of the debate now, namely the disappearance of acute obstetrics in Refaja and Bethesda. Does the CDA think that acute obstetrics, even in view of the problems that exist, should come back?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u16	The CDA is not opposed to changes in care and organization, but we do want it to be well secured. That is also my question about the emergency department and the number of hospital stops. Our opinion and my opinion is that as long as there are hospital stops, acute care is not yet sufficiently in order. That is why our question is for the Minister to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u17	Actually, I don't see any difference between Winterswijk and Hoogeveen. In Hoogeveen, acute obstetrics has now disappeared. People have to travel for a long time. E.R.'s gonna leave, too. That means thousands of people have to go to another hospital. Can the CDA explain to me why it is not for the maintenance of acute obstetrics in Hoogeveen, but for the maintenance of acute obstetrics in Winterswijk? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u18	For two reasons, we supported the motion of the SP at the time. Firstly, we are now two years ahead of the first discussion we had on this subject. The CDA, me in particular, was extremely irritated. The Minister has called ten times: consult, talk to the region, talk to chain partners, but nothing had happened in Winterswijk. Secondly, on the basis of the Treant decisions, we have asked the Minister for regional images. Show that there is a good understanding of the need for care in that region. They weren't available yet. Decisions are therefore taken without sufficient justification and without consultation with everyone. That has annoyed us very much. For Winterswijk too, we say: show the necessity! I was in Winterswijk last Thursday. There they say: we have some problems with obstetrics. Then it turns out that the midwife has never been spoken to. I really don't think that's possible. If a hospital director thinks there are problems somewhere, they need to talk to the people who are involved and the caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u19	I just wanted to come back to the PhD research on the emergency services that Mrs Van den Berg referred to. When I read that, I found it interesting, too. At some point something can become a mantra: yes, it is good, the concentration of emergency care is good. I know how that works. But it's just never been proven. Now I would like to ask Mrs Van den Berg: should we not stop this movement, which is also being used by insurers and hospitals, until we know better what is working well and how to organise this emergency care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u20	I believe that GroenLinks has also supported the motion that we adopted just before Christmas, in which we say that in fact we do not want decisions to be taken without identifying the need for care and, as I have just said, the CDA's plea for mandatory compliance with quality registration. 'Cause it turns out there aren't even good grades on the emergency room. In this sense, I would like to support Mrs Ellemeet's call for a much better identification of where the real problems lie. This doctor mentions seven fields where it can be critical. I understand that with the high-complex acute care, such as a cerebral infarction, it can be critical in terms of time, but also in terms of expertise to treat. This is one of the fields we know. But I agree with Mrs Ellemeet that we do not know much yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mrs Van den Berg mentions a number of important examples of assumptions, which we should not go along with when we know exactly what is happening. We have indeed supported them before, but I think this is something else. We have taken a step in the right direction, namely the concentration of emergency services. Research now shows that we do not know whether that is wise. It's not just about the emergency room, it's about the whole hospital that's behind it. It's just the flow that's important. So I am glad that Mrs Van den Berg shares my appeal to the Minister to take another critical look at it. Shouldn't we say: take it easy until we know better if this has the desired effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u22	I've always learned, "Who's gonna put it, prove it." And I see that too much is being said and too little is being proven at the moment. In that sense, therefore, support for Mrs Ellemeet's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. In mid 2018, Treant Zorggroep announced that it would close the clinical obstetrics department due to a structural shortage of pediatricians. Pregnant and children are then sent to the hospital location in Emmen. The emergency aid units in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen close and replace these cities with basic emergency posts that are open daily until 11:00 in the evening. I understand very well that this decision by Treant has provoked many and also emotional reactions. People worry and wonder if they'll still get the care they need. Mr. Chairman. Last week there was a nice report in the Volkskrant on how the process towards a new institution of care in Drenthe was designed. A process that was thus initiated as a result of a shortage of staff in the province due to the quality requirements that increasingly require medical specialists, nurses and laboratory workers to 24 hours of availability and a process that was initiated in the knowledge that in the small emergency services were mainly waiting for patients who did not come. All this makes it necessary that the care landscape should be renovated, something that is not fun and something that is emotionally profound, but necessary. I understand the concerns people had and may still have and I understand the emotion when it comes to disappearing that trusted hospital around the corner. Mr. Chairman. I also understand the care that management and caregivers had and have about the continued provision of quality care. How good is it to see that the management of the ambulance in the Drenthe region also indicates that someone has long since been taken to the nearest hospital, but that the location depends on the acute care question? Or as an emergency doctor put it in the Volkskrant article: Sometimes it is safer to pass a hospital. Mr. Chairman. Looking back, I think it can be said that the management of Treant, the doctors, the staff, so all stakeholders have gone through a difficult but careful process with, I hope, a good result. Does the Minister share the conclusion that, if we look at the situation today, we can say that it was a good and careful process and that this could perhaps also be an example for other regions? Would it perhaps be an idea that the board of the two hospitals in the Achterhoek will once have coffee in Drenthe? Mr. Chairman. Looking at Drenthe, cooperation is one of the key words. At the end of last year the report Regional balance of supply and demand for medical specialists appeared and this report concludes that many solutions are already available in practice. The main recommendation in this report is to promote regional cooperation and to learn from each other. The Minister indicated that he would take this recommendation to heart and build on existing initiatives such as the Work in Care Action Programme, the Right Care at the Right Place and the Regional Care Tables, as in Drenthe. Can the Minister state what progress has been made in promoting regional cooperation and how much will he have to learn from each other? Are parties willing to take good initiatives and create new standards? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Mr Van Gerven requested this debate on 4 September 2018. We are a little over a year and a half and I think it can be concluded that Treant and other stakeholders have made difficult but sensible choices, that the care landscape in Drenthe is different and is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u25	You need to finish up, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u26	... good quality is and remains, and may be an example for other regions to create the right care in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mrs. Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr Veldman rightly mentions the healthcare table in Drenthe as a good example of innovative collaboration and looking at alternatives to forms of care that are no longer sustainable. Now they are working on a number of concrete projects. I mentioned all that track-and-trace system. So you're looking for people with expertise around, so you don't have to call an ambulance from the other side of the county. So I think that's a very nice, innovative approach. The care table and all those involved indicate that it would be nice if the Minister would also make a concrete contribution to the development of that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u29	And the question to Mr Veldman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u30	My question to Mr Veldman is: does he support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u31	I support the good initiatives I see, along with Mrs Ellemeet. I certainly support things that are innovative and that help to do things in a different way, so that we can organise things with each other manageable and affordable and so that the good care that is needed remains. Fortunately, innovation funds are also available for this, both on the left and on the right. Then I look primarily at those who have a role and a task in it. Those are also the health insurance companies. But I'm open to everything, so if there are bottlenecks and we see together that there's room to solve it because it brings us something good, we certainly shouldn't miss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u32	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yeah, finally. We also see a very direct involvement of the department. They sit at the table and are represented. I think that's really good. I hope that translates into pecunia as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u34	That was actually more of a statement than a question. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you, Mr President. "The triangle Assen-Emmen-Swollen is a kind of black hole. Everything inside is about to disappear. We had everything close to home, and now we're losing it." This statement by a resident of Hoogeveen, recorded in the Volkskrant last week, shows what this debate is about this afternoon. It is not just about women from Hoogeveen who are no longer able to give birth in their trusted hospital, or about elderly people from Stadskanaal who have not been able to contact their own emergency services since last week. It is deeply concerned about the fear that more and more facilities in a shrinking region will be broken down. Mr. Chairman. An adaptation of the health care landscape cannot be achieved without residents and care workers. It's not about systems and systems, but it's about people, people who often feel they're not being heard and changes happen to them. The Minister is now putting his hopes on the regional care table. This means that this care table must be a place where cooperation is established and where all the parties in the region can plan together. However, drivers in the region are often surprised by decisions taken by Treant or the health insurance companies. What is the Minister going to do, on the basis of his responsibility and his involvement in the care table, to ensure that the cooperation gets off the ground and that the care table gets a firmer mandate? Does the Minister see a role for health insurers in the region to agree on the future organisation of care and patient flows in the context of regional images, also in order to prevent hospitals from competing with each other? Can he confirm that the competition rules allow for cooperation and coordination? Mr. Chairman. Drenthe now has a plan for the coordination of care, in which care is coordinated from one provincial point of view. The province also contributes financially to this. What can the Minister do from his responsibility to support this plan? As far as my group is concerned, Drenthe can serve as an example for other regions in which changes in the health landscape are on the way. Mr. Chairman. Another concern concerns emergency care in the region. The emergency services in Stadskanaal are already closed and in Hoogeveen it closes in April. A temporary time-out in Emmen of Assen is therefore actually irresponsible. How does the Minister intend to ensure access to emergency care in the future? Shouldn't we set clear standards for emergency care, so that people also know what emergency care they can go to nearby? I also refer to the motion adopted by Mr Dik-Faber/Rutte, which the Minister still does not want to implement. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the doctor's office on my own. That is my final point. There are hardly any new general practitioners in the region, while Treant expects general practitioners to be available 24/7. How do we ensure that general practitioners are more facilitated, so that they are also willing to settle in the villages where care is under pressure? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are now debating the closure of the clinical obstetrics department in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen is a sign of the current coalition and the policy of this minister. This debate was requested a year and a half ago, but then stopped by the coalition. And now, now that the departments are finally closed, we are standing here a bit like mustard after the meal. Is this debate therefore pointless? No. It also bothers me that the Minister concludes that closure is necessary, given the shortage of staff and the situation in the region. This is always reversing cause and effect. The situation in the region is caused by the fact that hospitals are not allowed to grow and are bound by a budget ceiling. The shortage of staff is not the cause of concentration, but the result. Concentration is necessary in order to be able to fire staff. I'll give you a sketch of the situation. In 2010 an extensive report was published on the concentration of hospital care in Oost-Groningen and Noordoost-Drenthe. Treant himself said about this: external developments from the health insurance companies and politics call for one hospital. Not a word about staff shortages, because of course they were not there at the time. There were merger plans, and a complicated and long-term fusion process was deployed. This led to discontent among the staff. That's what caused an exodus. The medical staff resisted and there was an action committee. After years of pushing and pulling around the care table, in 2018 all noses finally stood in the same direction. The disappearance of the clinical obstetrics and pediatrics departments from Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen was a fact. In the meantime, due to the lack of a future perspective, the exodus of specialists and staff has begun. In addition, a further 500 employees have to disappear. This shows that the concentration was purely a austerity measure to lose staff. How much Treant has financial problems is shown by the fact that there is no money for a social plan for redundant employees. But wait. Now that the calf has drowned, the health insurance companies are suddenly pulling the wallet. Suddenly millions are available from the pot transition funds for a social plan. As a result, I suspect that the whole process of concentration, which began in 2010, has been deliberately and meticulously deployed by the health insurance companies and is now being completed by them. I'd like to explain these millions from the Minister. Was he aware of that? Why weren't these millions used earlier to keep the obstetrics department, for example? The fact is, five years ago, we had 85 units of acute obstetrics and now only 75. The pressure on those 75 departments is rising. The pressure on the ambulance's capacity is rising. The pressure on travel times is rising. What about the pregnant woman? She has to see where she brings her child into the world: at home, in the train, in a bus booth or along the highway. Hail for the use of the midwife and the rest of the staff, but not for the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you, Mrs Agema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister needs a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u39	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to try to answer the questions of the members of the House of Representatives, but to make two preliminary remarks. The first one is this one. The clinical obstetrics and clinical medicine departments in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen were closed in September and October 2018. In my view, this has been too abrupt a development. The announcement of the plans that we received at the end of 2017 was about the closure of the departments in Emmen because of a shortage of pediatricians. That is what the inspection then put her finger on and said that it went too abruptly. The IGJ then indicated that all parties had to be involved in the decision-making on the closure of that section. Moreover, there had to be clarity where the care could be provided. Residents and neighbors also had to be well informed. From there, the plan arose to organize a care table in Drenthe. I'm telling you this as a kind of introductory remark, but at the same time it's the evaluation as I see it in Hoogeveen, Stadskanaal and Emmen. I think that in the beginning the developments there went too quickly, too abruptly. The intervention of the inspection and also the debates that we have on it have said that these two subjects are always coming back; it is important to be aware of developments in the region and to do so requires a regional picture. On the other hand, we have also discussed in detail in the Chamber that we believe that parties should be involved in developments in acute care. We are not talking about parties that are already within the doors of the hospital, the medical staff, the board of directors or the works council, but we are focusing on the environment: the ambulance, the general practitioners, but also the residents and the public administration. That's a development you see more and more often in the country. I was at a meeting in Groningen last week. Among other things, Mrs Klijnsma, the King's Commissioner, was there. I complimented her on the fact that they set up that care table in Drenthe this way. That's a keeper. Such a care table is made in addition to making regional images and concepts-AMvB. Several parties are involved, so clearly not only parties behind the front door of the hospital, but also wider in society and other care parties. I think that is a valuable development. That makes me a little more positive than how Mr Van Gerven started. That is my second point in advance. I think that the healthcare table in Drenthe and the way in which parties have made their plan for caring for the region are positive. It also addresses new developments. It's not just about closing down a department of clinical obstetrics and clinical pediatrics. For example, a mobility centre for orthopedics and rehabilitation is coming back in Hoogeveen. Mommy's surgery is being expanded. The spearheads for Stadskanaal include the non-acute accident surgery and an eye centre. Treant investigates the possibilities of organizing rehabilitation beds close to home. I think that is all the points of profit that have been taken up in a good way. Mr Veldman referred to the article that was in the Volkskrant last week. Actually, I think that's a nice look back at how parties have approached each other there. Not every party has driven only for its own good. They removed the cards for the chest, looked each other up and looked up the cooperation. We will see this in many more places in the Netherlands. This will be more frequent in what are called "shrinking areas'. I think that is an ugly word, because in South-East Groningen and Drenthe there is evidence that new developments are also taking place. At the same time, it is not easy to organise care in a situation of staff shortages. I did not think that Mr Van Gerven's speech was sufficient to address these staff shortages. Of course, we have to take that into account. We do want good quality care and we want good care everywhere in the Netherlands. We don't want a-quality and b-quality. We want good care for everyone in the Netherlands. If that good care needs to be provided a little further away, there are a number of hospitals in the area for acute obstetrics and emergency care, ranging from Scheemda to Zwolle, Assen, Emmen, Groningen and Hardenberg, where that care can be provided. I believe that regional cooperation is of great importance and also offers opportunities for new initiatives. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make those two comments. Maybe there's something else, because otherwise it's like we're just focusing on hospital care. Of course, care is much wider than what is happening in the hospital; I will make that remark on Monday too, because then we will have a note meeting. The home monitoring of heart problems or birth care in the chain, in which CTG home monitoring takes place, I like initiatives that arise from a cause that may not be pleasant for everyone. Mrs Dik-Faber also referred to the article in the Volkskrant, which talks about a gap in health care. I can very well imagine that if the care changes, people who do not take developments for granted. We will have to do our best to do that. Through the concept of the AMvB there must be a role for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u41	This was a general introduction, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u42	These were two general comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u43	Yeah, but it's about obstetrics and hospitals in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen. Actually, that's what I'd like to stick with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u44	I would love to, but the questions I was asked were not just about these two departments, but about a whole bay of subjects, so that's why I gave myself that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u45	I just wanted to get back to the beginning of the Minister's speech. He said it was too fast and that the inspection then put the finger next to it. That's what he literally said. I think that's a very interesting expression. What exactly does that mean? Did the inspection intervene? And, so I ask the Minister, is the inspection sufficiently equipped to take up that role? I think that's part of the evaluation. Can the inspection take sufficient action?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u46	I think we can do it very well. The inspection is also based on its tasks. I say this not only on the basis of Treant, which we are talking about this afternoon, but also on the basis of everything we have exchanged over the past year, for example, on Slotervaart and Lelystad. There was a very large and very precise commitment of the inspection and of the NZa. Both have been calculated for their task. Both have a lot of capacity for that. At the same time, both bodies are working very hard. Then there is the remark that the inspection has put its finger on it. Something more precise: the inspection at the time, in spring 2018, told Treant that the consequences of that planned decision in terms of quality and safety of perinatal care were under-explored, and that for that reason extra attention is needed. This has led to the idea of creating regional images, and also, partly as a result of the debate here, to create a concept of acute care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u47	The Minister said in his introduction that I, or the SP, had no regard for the developments there, for example that there was a staff problem at Treant's hospitals. But isn't that precisely caused by the cuts in health care, which means 500 people have to leave? If a hospital has no certainty, people leave and apply to other hospitals. We see that movement now. Does the Minister recognise that, and is he willing to work out a scenario where there is a perspective for the hospitals in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen to become a full-fledged hospital again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u48	The questions are interrelated. In preparation for this debate, I have read back what the board of directors of Treant saw as a reason to stop clinical medicine and clinical obstetrics in autumn 2018. At that time, Treant's board of directors said that continuing longer is irresponsible. It was said that staff shortages were on the agenda. Patient safety always comes first, and with the choice for Emmen we can guarantee the quality of care. Another remark was that the posting of paediatricians was not possible in the short term. They are all references to a question of staffing and not to a question of money. That is why I have said that, in my opinion, Mr Van Gerven's speech, if I may be so precise, does not give sufficient attention to this shortage of staff. This is really the subject that we will have to deal with very intensively in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u49	The second question. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u50	The second question concerned the development of a scenario to bring back acute obstetrics and emergency services in both hospitals. No, we shouldn't go on that path. The chance to bring it back there is not present. It may not be empathetic, but it has to be clear, I think. I believe that we are not helping the people of Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen by saying: let's work out such a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u51	Second question, Mr. Van Gerven. It's the same number of interruptions, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u52	Yeah, two, I know. Of course, that merger was a dramatic mistake. It cost millions. She's also caused a lot of human problems. The fact that this merger has come and is allowed must not be the reason why what people need to care for, for example, acute obstetrics in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal is not there because there has been a wrong merger? I recall that, for example, Assen, a hospital as large as that in Hoogeveen, is flourishing and is growing again. So again my question to the Minister: why is he not working on a scenario that meets what people are asking, rather than what a board organises and realizes because of the circumstances that are now there and that they have caused themselves, but which people are not waiting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u53	It's always about organizing the good care. I would like to stress here that the presence of emergency care and acute obstetrics in the area, in Emmen as well as in Assen as in Meppel as in Hardenberg as in Zwolle as in Scheemda as in Groningen, is well in order. That's the way we should look at care, I think. We will have a debate on the same subject next Monday. The philosophy in Mr Van Gerven's own-initiative paper, I have to say here: it is on the same subject that we need to organise everything in every hospital. I don't think that's a viable map. I see more and more care being organized outside the hospital. I gave the example of CTG monitoring in obstetrics. I like these developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr. Chairman. We have therefore largely had the questions of Mr Van Gerven. What are you doing in Drenthe? The reason for the discussions we have had there a number of times is the department; I myself have been there a number of times to see if the parties are easily approaching each other there. The article in the Volkskrant I found a beautiful and positive article, which showed how parties have approached each other. As far as I am concerned, this is not over either, as Mrs Ellemeet rightly said. I asked if colleagues from the department from the board and management would all like to take on a region and be joined. I find it interesting to follow that process. I don't think it's that one-two-three. I think that involvement is necessary. It is also appreciated in Southeast Groningen and Drenthe. I'm just gonna keep getting involved. Mr. Chairman. I therefore believe that I have answered Mr Van Gerven's questions. Then I come to Mrs Ellemeet's questions, who spoke on behalf of GroenLinks and the PvdA. One of the questions in her speech was how you evaluate it. I've already gone into that. Her second question was whether you should make something out of a protocol for developments like Treant. I have tried to listen very carefully to her speech, but as far as I am concerned, the AMM concept that we are going to have in the next month should be the protocol within the framework of the Wtza. It's already in circulation with you. I see that concept AMMB as the protocol. This is actually a little more political, because we would like to explain the concept of the AMvB. In the direction of Mrs Van den Berg, I say that Winterswijk is the most recent good example of this. You have to take your time. You may think you can do that in two months, as a rush job, but that time is too short. Winterswijk has also said that it will take time to do so, and I think that is very important. So there is already a protocol, in the form of that concept-AMvB. We explain this from the Ministry; so we do not throw it over the hedge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u56	The Minister will have to forgive me if I don't remember what's in that AMvB. In any case, let me say what I think is very important about this and as far as I am concerned, I should like to say in that protocol. You want the involvement of patients and caregivers. I agree with Mrs van den Berg: not only at that time, but continuous engagement. Furthermore, there must be sufficient time. We must also be able to define it in such a way as to enable us to carry out our supervisory task from the Chamber, so that we can see whether they are complying with it in the various regions. The third point is that you want the alternatives to be in order. So you don't close anything until the alternative stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u57	Yeah, they're all parts of the concept AMMB. On the contrary, it emphasizes that it concerns not only parties from within the hospital, but also the other parties. In the article in de Volkskrant you already saw that a general practitioner wants to be involved. An ambulance facility also wants to be involved, as well as the pharmacy and the midwife. That's what happened in Treant's situation: either they were sitting at the table making the plan, or they knew the plan before it was finished and presented. That's the right order, and there's got to be time for that. So if I listen carefully to Mrs Ellemeet, I think that the elements she mentions are all included in the concept of acute concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u58	That's nice and especially important. The Minister also says that you can write it down very nicely, but that you are not there yet. You also want everyone, wherever this is going on, to know about it. Can the Minister explain how he intends to organise this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u59	Active.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u60	What does that mean, "active"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u61	Nowadays, since the bankruptcy of the Slotervaart hospital and Lelystad, we notice that if care parties foresee developments, they always come near us. I think it is my role for parties to be reminded of the existence of an AMvB concept and then I also explain the difference between the concept and when it will no longer be a concept. I believe that we should play an active role there, because both of us, Parliament and the Department, think that this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr. Chairman. There was one other question in Mrs Ellemeet's speech. It was about the coordination plan care. Mrs van den Berg and others have also spoken about this. I talked about this with Mrs Klijnsma. Her idea is about a kind of coordination point that allows citizens to reach a single point of contact. I have also received an e-mail from Mrs Klijnsma. I think I'm doing the right thing to talk to her about this. She's talking about a track-and-trace system. If I understand correctly, she wants to link it to the available staff for care in Drenthe. To be honest, I find that a little complicated, because we need to find out which care can be delivered at home and which care cannot be delivered at home. I'm making a charcoal sketch. It should be ready by the end of March. In advance, I'm going to light up my light in Drenthe, exactly what they mean by that coordination plan, and whether that fits in with the idea that I had about the control tower, which I told your Chamber once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u64	A pilot is already underway in Salland with the concept of the control tower. It is good that the Minister wants to use that as an input for the charcoal sketch, but my request to him is that he does not wait with support to Drenthe and see if they can get on with it sooner. The Minister cites the example of the availability of staff. I have just mentioned in my contribution that in fact in only 40% of the cases elderly people are rightly admitted to a hospital. What does one want to do in Drenthe: If an older person falls out of bed at night, then no ambulance is sent, but they say for example: there is a nurse in the neighbourhood who has night duty; he can also go there. Triage is very important then. I ask the Minister to support Drenthe already, so that at least we can get to work early in Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u65	It's not concrete enough for me yet. I spoke to the king's commissioner about my idea of the control tower. That's about a second number next to 112 where people can call for non-acute situations. But the follow-up step: what care can be provided at home and which can not? I think that is a very important question. I would like to study them before I undertake to get in there and allow Drenthe a pilot from the wealthy. If they say they want to work with that, I find that an interesting idea. But I have to weigh that up myself first, when it comes to the importance of the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u66	I understand what the Minister says about the control tower. We, as the CDA, also asked to look into this during the budget debate, so we are very pleased with that. The point is that the Minister is now going to see what is already possible in Drenthe, because all chain partners are very willing to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u67	That's what the minister just said. He was going to Drenthe to get some inspiration, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u68	I'm just repeating it. I will not wait until the end of March, but I will look more closely with Drenthe in the coming weeks at what exactly is understood and how the staff are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u69	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr. Chairman. I have now answered Mrs Ellemeet's questions and come to Mrs Van den Berg's questions. The first point that Mrs van den Berg mentioned, and which she also mentioned in the Interrupt Microphone, is that only 40% of the E.R. recordings of older people involve necessary medical-specialist care and that otherwise work can produce a lot. Do you want to talk to Drenthe about that? Yes. Are there any legal barriers? At first I can't see that exactly, so I need to have a more detailed discussion about that. Secondly, the concept of the AMvB. Mrs Van den Berg says: "That's nice, but it shouldn't be a one-time thing in a planned decision acute concern. We'll have to do that further along the route. Regular consultations, regular consultations between chain partners on acute care should be maintained." I very much agree with that. That's now written down in a policy that hangs on the WTZi. If the Wtza is there, it is written in the concept AMvB. So it is not just a planned decision. Regular consultations in a Regional Consultation Acute Care Chain are held periodically, regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u71	The consultation at ROAZ is very focused on the caregivers. The reason why I asked the question is that I want to know whether it is possible to take further account of the fact that regional directors and residents are also involved in a change in acute care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u72	I suggest that we discuss this question further when we talk about the concept of AMvB. He won't be waiting that long now. I understand the question, but I don't want to build a Christmas tree with consultation either. What I do want is a permanent involvement of the public administration in the developments in acute care. I think that is also what Mrs Van den Berg proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u74	Then the point about the stops. Mrs van den Berg refers to a letter I wrote about it. I thought that was October 1st. Her question is: now that ERs are disappearing, more driving is needed; can the Minister indicate how the new situation is working for residents? This is where I have to go to the ROAZ in the north. I understand that they have called in an agency to collect data on a weekly or biweekly basis at such a specific level. I'll see if we can get that data, too, so we can see how the new situation is working out for residents. Then, almost finally, the point made by Mrs Van den Berg about the ER doctor at the hospital in Goes who has been promoted. Perhaps two comments on that. Mrs Van den Berg asked if the Minister would be prepared to send a first evaluation to the Chamber before the summer on the situation in Drenthe and South-East Groningen. I'm gonna need the data I just promised you for that. I'm gonna try to get it from the ROAZ up north. Second. Perhaps I would do well to speak to Mr Gaaakeer when he comes up with these charcoal sketches so that I can hear from him for a moment what his view is on the establishment of acute care. I think I have answered Mrs van den Berg's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u75	Last question, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u76	We had asked for more than just the number of stops to be mapped out in the situation for Drenthe and South-East Groningen. Last but not least, I had a question about the adaptation of public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u77	About the data. As you know, we have talked about this on a number of occasions: for the data on stops, I have to consult the ROAZ. I'll do that actively. What about adapting public transport? I was just saying in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet that I asked several people on the board and the management of VWS to actively sit at the table for developments in regions. The point of public transport is actually taken into account by default. I do that myself in my meetings. I'll have people from Flevoland at the table again soon. Then the question is also about what the province or principal can do about public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u78	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman of the VVD says that looking back it can be said that the management of Treant, doctors, staff and stakeholders have gone through a difficult but careful process with good results. The question is: does the Minister share this conclusion? I do think you can now say that there has been a careful process. With good results, yes. When I read the newspaper article that Mr Veldman refers to, I think it is constructive consultation. That's what they look like. The conversation I had with Mrs. Klijnsma last night had the same tone. But it's all not ready yet. It's got to go on. We need more than just this development in hospital care. Development is also needed in, for example, network care for the elderly and other forms of planned care. So we're not there yet. That's actually my warning. Then: would it be an idea that other parties....................................................................................................................... I think that's a good idea. I'm actively wearing that, too. Drenthe also receives many other provinces to visit. I also understood that Flevoland and Spijkenisse have already made contact with Drenthe and have been there. Then: can you indicate what progress has been made in promoting regional cooperation? Two comments on this. One is that parties in the region are working hard to create regional images everywhere. That helps a lot, because it opens the conversations. Two, I think the concept of "AMvB acute care," which I have mentioned a few times in this debate, also helps. Perhaps I think Mr De Folter's comment in the interview in de Volkskrant is the most beautiful one, because the will to learn is clearly indicated by him there. He said: "I've often accompanied a merger, but then it was something between two entities, two hospitals. Now I'm saying it in my own words, knowing that I'm taking half the society on my neck." He means that in the most positive sense of the word. Then I think: look, that's a really nice example of how care has opened the doors to society and the interest from society. That meets with each other much more and much more directly than a few years ago. I think that's a good way to deal with developments. I say this in the direction of Mr Veldman. Then towards Mrs Dik-Faber, who said: the care table is not just meant to inform each other; it must also be a place to establish cooperation. What is the Minister going to do about it? I have said it a few times now: I think it should be an active role, also from our department, to set an example of the way in which the healthcare table is working, which is now going well in Drenthe. I'm also continuing to engage with the department. The second question that Mrs Dik-Faber asked was: I am getting signals that hospitals are competing with each other; is there enough room for cooperation? Loud and clear: yes, there is a lot of room for cooperation. The ACM recently wrote a handout on this subject. They are also prepared to consult. If the consultation does not take place, I would be happy to initiate the consultation, but that is not really necessary with the ACM, because it is actually being exploited in all the possibilities for cooperation and that space for cooperation is therefore available. Mrs Dik-Faber's third question dealt with the coordination point in Drenthe. That is what I have been talking about. On the matter of emergency care in the region: how does the Minister intend to ensure the accessibility of acute care in the future? Then we are talking about much more than just the E.R.'s, namely the trauma centers and the emergency stations in the bites. That seems to me to be a real problem to deal with in the charcoal sketch. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue of the shortage of general practitioners: what do you do about it from the Ministry? Last year, with the LHV (National Family Doctors Association), I had a study conducted on the regional balance between supply and demand. Drenthe is one of the regions where it is now and in the future, according to that research. In April, I sent you a plan of action that I made with the LHV in connection with that investigation. We will have to go into the region actively this year, especially the shrinking regions. I think that's an ugly word, but you know exactly what I mean. I will go to a number of regions to see if we can help local parties tailor-made and whether we can make general practitioner care future-proof. I see an active role for the LHV in this, but I have agreed with the LHV that we should do so together, also because sometimes they are subjects that are much wider than just the organisation of care. It is also about task redeployment and how to enrich the general practitioner's training with information on how to start a company, because that is a general practitioner's practice. These issues also need to be addressed. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered Mrs Dik-Faber's questions as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I would like to return to a number of points in the second term. Now my question is about the care table. The Minister said: I think this is a good example, and I also put it to other places in the country. I'm happy about that. It is good to hear that, but is the Minister personally involved or are his officials involved in this? Because I understand that if there is involvement from the Empire, from the Ministry or perhaps from the Minister, cooperation will be a little easier to get off the ground. It helps if the minister also shows that intensive involvement in the care table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u81	Sure. I've been there a few times. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Soms kan ik daar ook echt naartoe en daarbij aanschuiven.]] I did that a few times last year, in the autumn of 2017 and last spring. But I also have very regular contact, either with the hospital director, or with the King's commissioner, or with a deputy, or with a group of aldermen, not only in Drenthe, but also with other parties. In doing so, I have said nothing about the commitment and support of the members of the VWS Boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u82	It's good to hear this from the Minister. I would like to give a warm encouragement from my group to continue with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you. I'd like to take that to heart. Finally, I would like to say a word about Mrs Agema. Mrs Agema pretends that there is a deliberate austerity path in hospital care in Drenthe. The subject we are discussing today is acute obstetrics, but it is also about shortage of pediatricians and whether it is easier to find staff for the ERs. In addition, this is a very small ER: 9,000 patients in Hoogeveen and 9,000 in Stadskanaal, with only one to two patients per night. That doesn't make things any easier, according to Treant. I do not believe that this is a financial issue. I think it's more of a staff matter at heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u84	My point was: what was earlier, the chicken or the egg? A report on the desire to concentrate care was published in 2010. That wish came from the politicians and the insurers. Then a very complicated and frustrating fusion process was launched, in which the future perspective disappeared and people went elsewhere to seek their salvation. If people are gone and you're going to conclude that there's a staff shortage and that the departments need to close, then you might ask yourself what caused it. Were the staff shortages the cause or effect? I believe that the problems have been caused since 2010 by the report on the initiative of insurers and politicians and the subsequent merger plans and the route. Eventually, the perspective of the future disappeared and his people went elsewhere to seek their salvation. I think I've been able to reasonably support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u85	I am nevertheless of the opinion that I have read in interviews with Treant's board of directors. I have just mentioned them in the direction of Mr Van Gerven. More specifically for the functions in pediatrics and obstetrics, going on for longer is irresponsible. There are staff shortages. The short-term posting of pediatricians from other northern hospitals was not necessary. They are all elements, phrases, quotes, which are related to a staff issue and not to a financial issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u86	Have you answered all of Mrs. Agema's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u87	I have one more question about the social plan. Treant and trade unions have agreed to work together to guide as many employees as possible from work to work and to avoid casual redundancies. The aim is not to make redundancies. A growing part has already found work, and Treant and trade unions are looking at what is still needed in addition this spring. Mr President, that is a final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u88	I have the impression that the PR story of Director De Folter in de Volkskrant has done his job. But we are going to talk about this; we have another own-initiative paper to discuss on Monday. But I do have a specific question about the first-line obstetricians' allowances, because the Minister did not answer that question. Would he want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u89	I have to come back to that in writing. I'm not ready for that. I note, however, Mr Van Gerven's words that there would be a PR story from the Treant Zorg group. I really don't think that's what Treant deserves. People have worked hard to develop this concern, with the new facets that come with it. I've gone into that. They have made a great effort and made a great deal of effort, with lots of parties. To take that off as a public relations story, I don't think it's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u90	Last question, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u91	500 people just get out. In view of the long-term perspective of hospital care staff should be included. So we need acute obstetrics, we need emergency services, we have an ageing society. So you also have to look at the long-term perspective. The management does not do that; he looks at the short-term interest. Mr De Folter is coming and is going to be gone tomorrow, because he is sitting there as interim director. So that's one. The Minister has promised that he will come back to those allowances, but will he acknowledge that he has acknowledged that, in the case of those allowances for first-line obstetricians and the reduced availability of acute obstetrics in the second line, it is desirable that the preferred health insurance provider should be followed, also in the interests of obstetrics in the first line?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u92	I recognize that I still have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u93	Okay. Then take these points with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u94	That was the last question. As far as the first point is concerned, I really think that the Treant Healthcare Group is taking the developments forward in a way that is not aimed at tomorrow. These developments are aimed at a much longer period, in the longer term, to provide future-proof good care in the north. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions, so I'd better get going. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a regional picture of the health supply in the region;]] [[considers that all possible scenarios should be included and developed in a regional picture;]] [[considers that a scenario should therefore also be developed in the regional picture in which a full hospital returns to Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen;]] [[calls on the government to develop the scenario in which a full hospital returns to Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are health insurers who do not follow the preferred health insurance provider when granting supplements to first-line obstetricians in the adherence area of hospitals where acute obstetrics has disappeared, such as the Bethesda Hospital in Hoogeveen;]] [[whereas the Minister has stated that this is desirable;]] [[declares that the Minister agrees with insurers that, in the event of reduced availability of the second-line acute obstetrics, all insurers follow the preferential insurer's premium policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31016-271]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31016-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u97	Thank you, Mr President. It is not often that we have a debate that is actually marked by evaluation. We often talk about topicality, but I think it is good to do so occasionally. The Minister states that it must not be so soon, that parties must be involved and that alternatives must be in order if you want to close something. I fully support that. I think it's gonna be the art of watching that, too. That is what the Minister must do, and we must do it as a chamber. I did have one more question. Mr Van Gerven was right to point out that the result of merged hospitals may be that other choices are being made. We have had this debate here in the Chamber for a long time. From left to right, questions have been asked about the fusion wave we had at hospitals. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether he is seeing this in the developments in this region. Are these for him connected to the fact that hospitals have been merged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u98	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ambulance service in Drenthe and Zuidoost Groningen has been indicating for more than a year that they are dealing with a stop at least twice a day, thus indicating that an emergency service station is full;]] [[considers that as long as there are stops, the acute care chain is not in order;]] [[Considers that due to the recent changes in the hospital landscape in this region, developments in accessibility of (acute) care should therefore be further monitored;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out a review of the new situation in Drenthe and South-East Groningen regarding changes in acute care by the summer of 2020 on the basis of data on access to acute care, including the number of stops, driving times of ambulances and patient flow monitoring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31016-273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers to the questions and also for his commitment to talk to the province of Drenthe about their initiatives in particular for coordination of care, which may eventually also be given a place in the charcoal sketch. Mr. Chairman. I am still very concerned about the general practitioner's care in this area. It is the only area in the Netherlands where I get signals that in summer services simply cannot be filled because there is a shortage of general practitioners. I ask for real attention to be paid to general practitioners specifically in this region. That's what I do with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the plan for hospital care in Drenthe and Zuidoost Groningen states that general practitioners in the region are available seven days a week and 24 hours a day;]] [[Whereas, at the same time, general practitioners in the region are under pressure and there is an increasing shortage of general practitioners, particularly in rural villages;]] [[Whereas general practitioner care is a basic provision, especially for the rural area;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Medical Care has indicated that he wishes to examine with the National General Medical Association (LHV) whether local parties can be further supported in areas where bottlenecks are greatest;]] [[invites the Government, together with the LHV and the parties at the regional care table, to work to ensure the sustainable availability and accessibility of general care services in Drenthe and South-East Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Veldman and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31016-274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u101	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Van Gerven's motion for a resolution 271 also asks the government to develop the scenario in which a full hospital returns to Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen. I advise against this motion. I have argued in detail that I am concerned about good care and the proper organisation of it in the north. That is what we should be heading for, and not on what Mr Van Gerven has said in the motion for a resolution. 271. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 272. We have just exchanged the view that I need to look into what I said earlier and what the arrangements might be about that. It's Wednesday now, and we'll meet again on Monday. I would therefore like to ask the House to hold this motion. I would then like to give the answer orally in the debate on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u103	I think that's a good idea. We're holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u104	That's the motion in part No. 271, huh? No, sorry, 272.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you for that. Then there is Mrs Ellemeet's question as to whether other choices are made by mergers. In the specifications given to me, the three minutes I have, that's very difficult to say. I don't think you can say that in general there is a different wind blowing as a result of a form of merger or cooperation, because of course a merger has all kinds of different variants. As such, I see more and more examples of cooperation between hospitals, but also between hospitals and chain partners. I am very much in favour of this, particularly in relation to chain cooperation. As far as I am concerned, it does not all have to be an administrative or legal merger. But I find it very difficult to give a general answer to this and to say that there is going to be a different wind as a result of mergers or cooperation. I need more time to think about that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u106	A brief response or question, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u107	The reason was the example that Mr Van Gerven mentioned of the hospital in Assen, if I am not mistaken, which is independent. The interesting thing is that you look at regions and talk about shrinking regions. That an independent hospital can keep all departments open and not a merged hospital. I understand that it is very difficult, in general terms, to say something about this, but it might be interesting to take a closer look at that, I say to the Minister. Because I think we're all quite critical of the fusion wave of hospitals over the past few years. There are voices that say you need to defuse hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u108	It's still an interesting question, but I'll make it a little wider. About mergers as such you can really feel each other, but I think the upswing is: cooperation between care parties. I think that is a nice theme that can be addressed in the contour note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u109	Yeah, but that's where it's gonna be. It's the second term now, so I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u110	Oh. I thought we had till 5:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u111	No, it's also about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u112	No, okay. I understand you very well. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mrs Van den Berg's 273 calls on the government to carry out a review of the new situation in Drenthe and South-East Groningen in the area of changes in acute care by the summer of 2020 and so on. I told you I'd ask ROAZ to give me this information so I can share it with you. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this motion is Chamber of Appeal. Finally, Mr President, the general practitioner's services. Ms Dik-Faber expressed her concern about sustainable guaranteed general care in Drenthe and Zuidoost-Groningen. So is the operative part of the motion in part No. 274. As far as I am concerned, this motion is Chamber's opinion, also in view of the efforts made to ensure that care is maintained. Together with the LHV, we have identified a number of regions, not only Drenthe and South-East Groningen, which need our attention. This one's one of them. So I'll do that. I'll look for an appropriate time to inform you about that. I'd love to give some kind of update around the summer. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-7.u114	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
