ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u1	At present the issue is the treatment of the Law 35104, Amendment of the Law on Primary Education, the Law on Secondary Education, the Law on Centres of Expertise and the Law on Participation in Schools in connection with the abolition of the fusion test in fundamental education. I had already welcomed the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media to the Upper House. I inform Members that, in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself and then put it on the table to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and good afternoon for the gentlemen behind the rostrum and for the Minister, of course. We are discussing the abolition of the merger test. A measure that reminds the Forum for Democracy Group of an earlier education debate here in the Senate: the Law more room for new schools. The match between the two is this one. On paper, it seems to be a flexibilisation and improvement of the existing system, but on a closer inspection we see a solution to a non-existent problem. A solution that still has some adverse and some unforeseen and possibly also unfortunate side effects; a remedy worse than the ailment. Allow me to explain the objections raised by the FvD Group. The current fusion test protects a great asset in educational country: the human dimension in schools. In schools, our kids can't be numbers. At school, teachers should not be glorified law enforcement officers who can barely get to know the talents, character, needs and home situation of their pupils. At school, parents must also know the way; they must get to know and have easy access to teaching and support staff, with whom their child is mostly involved in the day. The so-called quality care is guaranteed. We saw that in the Minister's response, and that is good. But we see the fusion test as the watchdog for that human size. Small-scale schools are good for children, parents and teachers. And of course there is a lower limit to the number of students that a school can have to stay open. We can also make the necessary observations about this lower limit, but that would be beyond the scope of this debate for now. I would just like to say that the fact that there is a lifting standard for schools with a small number of pupils and therefore from national schools sometimes being forced to merge makes a proper merger test all the more necessary. A merger may sometimes be necessary and useful, provided that all interested parties are carefully involved. A merger must never be a goat's path for maintaining poorly functioning schools or the creation or maintenance of schools for which there is actually insufficient support, but which can in any case acquire their right to exist on paper through a merger. Mr. Chairman. Forgive me for mentioning a practical example. In an earlier debate, the Minister did not seem very fond of casusism, as he called it, but sometimes it is useful to make a point concrete. In 2016, in The Hague, a creative boxing jump was created by the school board of foundation De Ozonlag, a foundation for the establishment of an Islamic secondary school. Given its lack of support, it decided to target two target groups. It was to become a Hindu-Islamic school, an "Frankenstein school" in ideological terms. This was an example of a school being set up and it did not come into being in this form. If we let go of the fusion test, it would be a lot easier to craft schools together in a very artificial way through a merger. The freedom of choice and the ideological and educational diversity in the educational offer are a great asset, but we fear that the removal of the fusion test will open the way to more such curious educational concepts that are not in the interests of parents and pupils. And then the fusion test itself. Fortunately, it has led very rarely to the rejection of a merger. However, it has proved to be a valuable emergency brake and not an obstacle to the merging of schools, where this can and should be and is necessary. Every train driver will be able to tell you that such an emergency brake system, although fortunately almost never needed, is really indispensable. Also a not insignificant point: The Forum for Democracy is not a supporter of thick layers of management and consultancy in our education, among other things. The larger the schools or school communities and the more often and more complicated they are merged, the more representatives of these guilds make their living. We really give everyone a sandwich and also a slice of cheese on it, but rather not unnecessarily at the expense of an already tight educational budget. As far as we are concerned, this Community money should go as far as possible to the core tasks and resources for our schools. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear to you that our group is not in favour of the deletion of this merger test. Don't fix something that isn't broken; we like that principle. However, we will take note with interest and an open attitude of the further course of this debate and of the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u5	I would like to ask Mrs Nanninga the following. You say 'I want to maintain that merger test', but the schools have just said that they think it is a bureaucratic monster. You have to go all the way through. The merger test is maintained, but now it's decentralised. Then why are you so attached to the central bureaucratic monster?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u6	For example, the General Education Association feels very differently about this. If it's okay, you've also received a letter from them. We're really more on the same page, aren't we? We think that national control is a desirable instrument. It's really an emergency brake. That there's bureaucracy... We have here a system of schools of community money and then you have to comply with certain rules. I understand. A merger is a bureaucratic monster anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u7	Do you consider the idea of the union to be more important than the view of the schools? They're making it very clear that they don't like this anymore. There are other mechanisms in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u8	We do, however, attach great importance to it for reasons that I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Sent, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2010 the House of Representatives almost unanimously adopts a law to make a calculation test part of the final exam from school year 2013-2014. The First Chamber then adopts the proposal as a hammer piece. Ten years later, there is a bill in the First Chamber to abolish the same accounting test. 142 Chambers, four cabinets, three committees, 97 motions, five school years to test students, three failed pupils and over 500 million; these are the figures behind this dossier. As of the school year 2014-2015 it was decided to give a school advice first in February and then take a final test in April or May. The idea was that the teacher's advice would lead the admission to high school. The government agreement of the Rutte III cabinet already states that the cabinet wants to try to bring forward the final test in primary education and/or to issue the final opinion later, as this means that there is more information about a student. In 2010 the House of Representatives unanimously adopted the Merger Test Act in education. In 2011, the First Chamber adopted the bill without a vote, with a note from the VVD. In future, all educational institutions wishing to merge must show that this is really necessary. Teachers, parents and students/students must agree with the merger and the Minister must then give his approval. The Minister may refuse approval if the merger impedes the variation of the educational offer. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal that seeks to abolish that merger test again. What is the matter with the constant changes that education is facing? A positive reading of the examples I have presented is that the government draws lessons from the evaluation of its policy. Another reading is that the government has insufficient insight into the consequences of planned policies. A large number of scientists have therefore called on the government to have more general policies tested. For the sake of transparency, I have supported this call from my scientific role. Dare to experiment with planned policies. Formulate policy objectives in the coalition agreement rather than defining an approach. Use that space to test new measures to create a learning government. On subjects such as education, there is too little behavioural knowledge to create at the drawing table policies that have a great chance of success. Let policy first prove itself on a small scale, before introducing it widely. It is the best possible evidence that the coalition parties dare to do fact-based rather than fact-free politics. If it were the Minister's choice, what experiments would he consider desirable? Mr. Chairman. Herman Tjeenk Willink gives a sharp analysis of the underlying problem in "Grower thinking, do smaller." He finds it striking that when a problem is identified, for example when calculating, a discussion about possible solutions is usually started quickly. It is forgotten to check whether all concerned agree on the precise problem, whether it is clear who is experiencing that particular problem and whether the possible causes are clearly on the retina. These questions cannot be answered without leaving the teachers to speak. "If anything has to change," says Tjeenk Willink, "it's the people in the workplace who can contribute to that change. Their knowledge and experience are indispensable. They must also counter the tendency of policy makers, supervisors, professional organisations, interest groups, schools and sometimes teachers themselves to regulate and ensure everything in advance." The growing gap between the responsible minister and the professional in the workplace has increased the distance between policy and implementation. Drivers and politicians have become heavily dependent on the intermediate layer. And this intermediate layer often seems to be an extension of the government, says Tjeenk Willink. The fear of the PvdA is that the present bill increases the intermediate layer. Can the Minister understand this concern? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the risks of abolishing the merger test in fundamental education. This gives school boards more space...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u11	Thank you for the interesting speech by Mr Sent. I can agree with many of her findings, namely returning to the professionals, the man or woman in front of the classroom, at the bed and in so many places where the government is active. At that point, I feel sorry for her. Mr Tjeenk Willink, our former President of the Chamber, has written excellent words about this. I agree. However, I do not understand the leap that is then made in the argument, as if a new intermediate layer or an extension of an intermediate layer would then arise in this legislative proposal. Something is being abolished, namely the central test. It is now really being invested in a decentralised way, and it works there, as the evaluations show. So I don't get the jump. Can Mrs Sent explain her concern that there will be some bureaucracy for the man or woman in front of the classroom, for the schools? I don't see that yet. But maybe Mrs. Sent will teach me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u12	This concern is very clearly expressed in the letter sent by the General Education Association from the teacher's perspective. The human dimension is snowed under as a result of the measures in the present bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u13	There is a concern that new conglomerates of schools will emerge. At the same time, we see that the merger test as it has now been put into practice has not had any exciting effect. Luckily not, we both say. But he hasn't had any inhibition either. The Minister has not given us any figures in which we see that there has been a stop to mergers. We see in particular that large conglomerates that were already there, for example mbo Amarantis, which was discussed a lot when the bill was launched, have remained. But that's different. When we talk about what a good community is, which school is a community in which people recognize themselves, we see that the size of the board or the size of the school community does not matter, but what the board then gives for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u15	I would like to hear more from Mrs Sent what that merger test will do in that recognizable community that we stand for together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u16	I was just getting started on my speech. I suggest I put it further. If there are any questions left with Mrs Bikker after that, I'd love to hear them very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u17	That's a good idea. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u18	I come now to the risks of abolishing the merger test in the foundational education, which Mrs Bikker asked me to explain. The merger test gives school management more scope to seek out local cooperation and to jointly realise a future-proof educational offer in the region. Abolition of the merger test has economies of scale without added value to education as a risk, with the additional risk that managers become more and more managers and have less links with education. Does the Minister share this concern? Scale enlargement can have advantages, says Geert Devos, professor of education in Ghent. For example, a larger educational organisation has more strategic importance, there is more expertise and possibly more efficiency. But Devos says the distance between the board and the class is growing. Drivers are no longer aware of what is happening there, but are only concerned with financial interests and strategic issues. Does the Minister recognise this risk and, if so, how can it be avoided that the distance between day-to-day practice in the classroom and policy makers becomes too great? The PvdA welcomes the motion by GroenLinks-Kamerlid Lisa Westerveld who calls on the cabinet to identify the advantages and disadvantages of different administrative sizes. In doing so, we consider it essential to consider how large administrations can have both a positive and a negative impact on the design of small-scale education while preserving diversity. For us, this is an important point to gain insight into the optimal size of an educational organisation. And that vision is then needed to give a substantiated assessment of the legislative proposal before us. Does the Minister agree with my group? The right of consent of the co-determination council in the case of mergers, which also controls the legitimacy of the merger, was already laid down in the Law on participation in schools in 2006. However, although the participation council of a school involved in a merger has the right of assent, it is doubtful whether the board can take on that responsibility. An amendment now provides for the participation council to be involved in merger plans in good time. According to the Minister, is the right of consent secure enough? And what is being done to equip the participation councils for this task? Mr. Chairman. It is well known from the business community that mergers and acquisitions often do not lead to the desired added value. The follow-up to business mergers is that companies are regularly divested over time or choose to go on their own again, for example through a management buy-out. In education, however, defusion is virtually impossible. In 2013, the First Chamber approved the legislative proposal 33.253 Merger review care. This has given the Dutch Healthcare Authority the power to withhold approval of merger plans from healthcare providers, if the concentration impact assessment required by this bill shows that stakeholders, clients and staff are not carefully involved in the merger process or the accessibility of forms of care that the government wants to ensure continuity is at risk. Against this background, my group is questioning the intention to encourage more mergers in fundamental education. My group is not against mergers, let there be no misunderstanding about that, but believes that extreme care is required. Mr. Chairman. Gladly return to the history of this bill, starting in 2005. The Education Council noted that the scaling-up in the education sector, which has been promoted by the government for years, may have been too strong. The Education Council suggested, among other things, that administrations should submit their merger plans to the Minister for review in the future. This brings me to 2011 and the adoption of the Merger Test Act in education. I understand why this bill was dismissed as a hammer piece in this Chamber. All the educational institutions that want to merge had to show that this is really necessary. Teachers, parents and students, students, had to agree with the merger and the minister had to give approval. The Minister could refuse approval if the merger hindered the variation in the educational offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u19	May I ask Members to pursue the distance of 1.5 metres as far as possible? This is for your own safety, but also for the safety of the people around you. Carry on, Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u20	In doing so, the Minister had an important instrument in his hands. The purpose of the test was to check whether school management has gone through a careful decision-making process, as I read in the reply. In addition, the test extended the influence of participation on the school organisation. Schools and boards had to respect human standards in their organization. This means that they keep their institutions clear and keep the lines of decision-making brief. My group is very much in favour of this. Then I will continue the evaluation of this bill in 2015. This analysis follows a number of options for the foundational education, including either the complete inoperative of the Merger Test Act, as a priority in shrinking areas, or a number of changes in the law and regulation. To our regret, the Minister does not choose to accept the carefully substantiated suggestions for adaptation. The Education Council also shares our concern. In its response to the government agreement's intention to abolish the merger test, the Education Council points out the importance of the merger test as a guarantee against undesirable restriction of freedom of choice. It should be avoided that only one administrative education provider remains in certain areas. In addition, if scaled down, efficiency losses may occur. According to the Education Council, the merger test is therefore an important instrument to counter the formation of very large schools. Why didn't the Minister follow this advice? The General Education Association is also critical of the present bill. He identifies two fundamental concerns. First of all, the bill releases the guarantee of the human measure. Secondly, administrative structures such as pseudo-fusions should also be covered by the right of consent of participation, according to the General Education Association. He concludes that it is unwise to abolish the merger test. Why doesn't the Minister agree to this? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a conclusion. Professor Renée van Schoonhoven of the Vrije Universiteit argues that the choice of scale should be based on deeper values, which are important for education in our society and therefore extend beyond our own organizational interests. For the PvdA education must be the great equalizer. Good education is the basis for a harmonious society, in which everyone has an equal opportunity to realize her or his dreams. Good education should be accessible and available to everyone and should not depend on where you were born or who your parents are. The PvdA wants everyone's talent to develop optimally. This is not only good for the individual, but it benefits society as a whole. We would like to hear how the Minister sees the bill against this background. And we are, of course, looking forward to his answers to our other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with interest to Mrs Sent's speech. However, I have not quite heard an answer to my question. I asked a question about strengthening our shared passion that schools are a shared community of values, because we sometimes have our concerns and how this bill stands in the way of doing so. How the abolition of the merger test at central level is now an obstacle for teachers to form that community of values. On the contrary, I have the impression that it is actually much more important for school authorities to invest in it themselves and that the gentleman takes his role in it. Can Mrs Sent clarify again what is really at the heart of her question as to why she considers this merger test to be detrimental to the community of values on that point? 'Cause I haven't heard that in one school.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u23	It is what the General Education Association gives that people are concerned about the position of teachers. We are very serious about that. I am pleased that other cases introduced by the Merger Test Act are maintained. But given the concerns and the risks I have identified, I continue to think it important that the Minister also plays a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u24	In fact, the General Education Association warns that schools should be brought closer together. At the same time, we see in this merger test that no cases have become known in recent years. So I understand the concern and I understand the purpose of Mrs Sent, but I do not see in being in favour or against of the Labour Party when it comes to this bill any winner in how it brings closer that school to becoming that community of values it is aiming for. I would like to hear Mrs Sent in that, and I would also like to hear what opportunities she sees at that point would help, such as that stronger mr or a stronger position of parents and pupils at that point. Because then we're gonna take steps together instead of sitting towards each other cats or something that works or doesn't. I have the impression that we've both seen the numbers. My impression is that that merger test isn't helping. You're judging that differently. But at least let's see what steps we can take together, but I don't hear them yet. I will conclude with a second aspect, because you are looking very seriously, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. How does the Labour Party see the fact that the numbers of pupils are falling and that this means something for schools? And what is to be done in the future? I haven't heard that reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u25	I'd distance myself from the typing that's getting catted. I think we are having a substantive debate in which we are discussing the pros and cons of abolishing the merger test. Because of the concerns I have raised, we still see the merger test as added value. That doesn't mean that the merger test solves all the problems in education. We have already discussed this in detail, our ideas on this and the fact that education should be the equalizer, while it is precisely the unequalizer, about the importance of teachers as professionals carefully appreciate and encourage them to get the best out of their pupils. I would like to have a bigger debate on education. Today we are having a debate on the legislative proposal before us and I have argued that I do not yet see sufficient justification for agreeing to abolishing the role of the Minister. I am also pleased with the motion by Mr Westerveld in the House of Representatives, because I would like to see a careful reflection on the optimal size of a school board, on the optimal size of a school. So far, I do not think that this is sufficiently substantiated to be enthusiastic about the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u26	Mrs. Bikker, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u27	I asked about the apprenticeship numbers and how the Labour Party reflects on them, because there really is a difference with 2011. Then, for example, we saw that the MBO was in trouble. That merger test will stay in place, too. There's nothing to be done about that. This is only about foundational education. At the same time, we see that the decline has already begun and continues. We hear from schools that a merger test is an obstacle to getting schools to survive in time, including in areas where the situation is quite oppressive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u28	That was the third at this point. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u29	A merger test is not a prohibition. A fusion test invites careful consideration. This is still possible, including for areas with declining apprenticeship numbers where creative solutions need to be put forward. We have already adopted a legislative proposal in this Chamber to further promote this. I don't see maintaining the merger test as an obstacle to inviting small schools to work together. I have already indicated that we are not opposed to mergers in themselves. We are in favour of careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u31	Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, we were also in a debate with this minister. Then it was about the Law more room for schools. I do have a bit of a déjà vu. At that time, I argued that it was not entirely clear what problem the legislative proposal before us was a solution, while my group was deeply concerned and increased the scope for new schools to increase the existing problem of segregation. What exactly are we gonna do with this? Aren't we making an existing problem bigger? That feeling got me back in the preparation for this debate. As has often been pointed out, the merger test is virtually non-existent, since the substantive review has already been replaced by a slight procedural test. The CFTO, the Committee on Education and Education, which carried out the review, has been lifted almost two years ago. So that was two years before the finalisation of the parliamentary debate on this bill. That is neither logical nor attractive, as far as my group is concerned. In any case, the de facto abolition of the merger test is not yet a reason to do so in law. After all, we could also reverse the de facto abolition or redesign the existing test. Mr. Chairman. Why this proposal to abolish the merger test in primary and secondary education? The simplest answer is that it was in the VVD election programme. It probably got there after the VVD had received signals from some school boards that they found that test difficult. Then, like so many VVD points, it became government policy. I just happen to be looking your way, Mr. Chairman. The main justification of this cabinet is that this merger test hinders schools in shrinking regions. These are schools where cooperation, including merger, may sometimes be necessary to survive. But what was this law meant for? It was also intended to counter undesirable, unbridled scale increases in education by many parties in this Chamber. The question is, therefore, if there is indeed a real problem in the shrinking regions, whether by definitively abolishing the fusion test we are not throwing away the baby with the bath water and exacerbating an existing problem, namely unwanted scaling. Let me go into both points in more detail. Firstly, the problem that this bill should solve. My group is still not quite clear on the scale of this problem. Can the Minister estimate how many schools have concerned this since the introduction of the merger test in 2011? What exactly do these school boards run into, I ask the Minister. How often does it occur that merger is the only option for the schools and shrinking regions concerned, rather than a looser partnership? I'd like a response from the Minister. By the way, I am not referring to so-called pseudo-fusions. On the contrary, the Group of the Party of European Socialists would like to see this restricted by giving assent to the Co-decision Council. Does the Minister see possibilities for this? The question is, in particular, if we assume that this is a serious problem, why was the solution chosen to completely abolish the merger test? It is not adjusting the key; there is no more country key at all. Moreover, there had already been an exception in the implementation of the law for mergers in shrinking areas in 2014, by introducing a light, only procedural test for these cases. Why did that actually not provide sufficient comfort for the schools in the shrinking regions, I ask the Minister? In any case, this bill goes much further. The government agreement still provided that the merger test would be abolished only in the event of shrinkage problems. Next, according to the explanatory statement, the government has chosen to interpret it broadly and thus to abolish the test altogether. Why is my group a mystery? Why not opt for adaptation instead of abolition? Why give this instrument completely out of its hands? These questions are, of course, linked to my second point: the existing problem of scaling up. Sometimes merging can be fine and work well. However, with economies of scale, there is a real risk that the human dimension will be lost. This has also been mentioned by previous speakers. The board will then be at an ever greater distance from the workplace, from the class where it happens. This also undermines the control of that workplace. In its review of the 2015 merger test, the CFTO describes that the merger practice is often one of small schools or school boards being swallowed up by a larger partner, with a domino effect ultimately jeopardising the small scale of education. The Minister continues to say that the human dimension is still being secured by means of the fusion impact assessment, which is simply maintained. But the fact that this is part of that report does not mean that the human measure is also guaranteed in practice, because what does the Minister say about this guarantee? Although a number of school boards may be anxious to get rid of the merger test, Mr Pijlman speaks of 'the schools', I would say'school boards', there are real concerns in the field about the consequences of their abolition. For example, the General Education Association, as mentioned earlier, considers the abolition of the merger test to be unwise, precisely because the human dimension will no longer be secured. The main advisory body of the government in the field of education, the Education Council, found in a report of a few years ago the merger test still 'unabated'. The CFTO, in which the implementation of the law was invested, went one step further and argued for a tightening up of the test in its 2015 evaluation report. This is in line with a motion signed by the Dutch parliament in 2014 and also by the party of this minister. The evaluation of the CFTO at that time is in stark contrast to the government's analysis, which concludes that the merger test, because it has in practice stopped few mergers, is apparently superfluous. The conclusion could therefore be quite another, namely that the merger test did not stop enough mergers because it was not strict enough. The same CFTO also noted that the merger test had a certain preventive effect and that certain applications had not been made because they knew that they would not pass the merger test or were difficult. In other words, on the one hand, the merger test might have been more effective in preventing even more educational mergers than has often been claimed, and on the other hand, the test might have been too light. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this, because this also explains the argument he used that very few merger applications were rejected in practice, in another light. Does the Minister agree with me that we simply do not know how many undesirable mergers could have been stopped in the future with the merger test? That is, before he was de facto abolished by the various relaxations. One thing is for sure: if you remove the test now, you expand the possibilities of scaling up and stand nationwide with empty hands if it turns out that the human size is still lost. 'Cause there's more mega-schooling and mega-bending and no one's gonna be waiting for. Following a motion by GroenLinks, the Minister has promised the House of Representatives to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of various scale sizes in the coming years, including the human dimension. But what if this research shows that scale is a very negative relation to human size? Are we going to muffle the well for the proverbial calf again? As far as the SP Group is concerned, this really is the reverse order. Let us not now abolish the fusion test, the only national instrument we have to control scaling, but first do such a study and then re-examine the existing test. Mr President, you will understand that the proposal has not yet received the support of my group. This is without prejudice to the fact that, as always, we are looking forward to the Minister's reply. As we know, he always defends his legislative proposals with passion and verve. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Adriaansens on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u33	Thank you, Mr President. With the law on the abolition of the merger test, we are doing something remarkable. We are abolishing a rule. Often there are legislative proposals in this Chamber that add rules to our already extensive repertoire, but today, when the law is embraced by this Chamber, we abolish a rule. I believe in a low-level society, without too much bureaucracy. That's what this law contributes to. So I would almost say that today seems to be a beautiful day. We also do something else interesting with this law. In fact, we are tilting, in organizational terms said. We lay the responsibility of those directly involved, and these are the schools, the teachers, the parents and the municipalities. We allow them to make a good assessment of the school offer. What we still need to do is to look in some time to see whether this responsibility has indeed led to a clear, recognisable and accessible supply of education; to check. The bill regulates that there will no longer be a merger test for mergers in foundational education. In doing so, we give the school boards more space to work together in the region and to provide a wide and diverse range of education. This is important if we are to be able to respond quickly to the declining numbers of pupils, as has already been said this afternoon. There are, however, a number of comments to be made on the bill and I would be happy to walk by with you. First of all, the importance of participation, an important pillar in the fusion impact assessment. The consideration of whether a merger is the right way to create the desired supply of education is at local level. The instruments of fusion impact assessment and the right of assent are the safeguards for the smooth running of the process. There have been some concerns about the quality of this participation in the Internet consultation, as has been said this afternoon. In my current organisation I am dealing with a works council and in my previous job as a care manager with a client council. My experience is that it helps, if not necessary, that drivers themselves very much believe in the importance of participation. This is also confirmed by the second evaluation study of the ITS of Radboud University, Participation: the wind in the sails, from 2009. I quote one of the conclusions: 'a positive, open attitude of the competent authority and the school leadership to participation has a positive impact on the participation of staff, parents and pupils'. But it is also important that managers show genuine appreciation for the employees who participate in such a participation council. The Kampman Commission has also appointed this point of interest, which has made proposals to make the university and works councils more attractive. Furthermore, it is important that the directors involve the participation councils in good time and do not have them sign on the cross. This is provided for in the legislative proposal, but those other aspects are at least as important. The government draws attention to the measures taken recently to strengthen participation, such as the 'Strengthening participation' project and the support for helping to propose alternatives to the merger. But these measures are mainly aimed at strengthening knowledge and making it accessible. The government states in the explanatory statement that, if all this does not help, there is always the safety net of the Disputes Committee, but I think you are too late. The proportions are then disturbed. The question is whether, if you finally get right, you can then create a good cooperation. Usually it takes some time to get over that. The measures taken by the government are not about the behaviour of the directors towards participation. My group's question to the Minister is therefore to what extent the programme for strengthening participation or other programmes actually strengthens participation. To what extent does this programme also take into account the behaviour needed to ensure that participation is effective? So how does the Minister monitor the positive development of this participation, given that it is such an important condition for the legitimacy of this merger between schools? Mr. Chairman. The ITS study also shows that low-skilled parents and VMBO students do not participate very much in participation. In my group's view, participation should really reflect the group represented. From my experience, I know that it also pays to have those who participate for which you sometimes have to make more effort. The question to the Minister is how we can improve the participation of the low-skilled. Mr. Chairman. The importance of human measure has been mentioned several times. That is an important aspect of the merger plan. Is this merger creating a clear, recognizable and accessible organisation? The government indicates that a large school board can also have small-scale organised schools. That vision is shared by my group. After all, it is about the goals achieved with the form of organisation, although some tasks are better organised on a large scale and others on a small scale. Several pieces have been written about it, among others by Professor Edith Hooge. She gave a lecture on the scale of education. She says it's elastic. She mentions a lot of factors that are involved. I'm not going to name them all now, but the conclusion is that there is no ideal scale. It depends on a lot of factors. We are trying to get a strong grip on those factors that have an impact on this. We're going to investigate it again, as the government points out. The VVD believes that these studies should focus mainly on the impact of the output of education, namely the educational outcomes, learn the pupils enough? The education process: do the students receive enough and good lessons? Besides, it's about the school climate being safe. My question to the Minister is therefore to what extent these investigations look at the desired output, and not just at the factors that affect that scale. Mr. Chairman. The question is whether the merger will give us what we want. Questions were asked about this in the written procedure. This compares mergers in industry with mergers in education. The Minister is right to say that those sectors are, in fact, very incomparable by definition. But in itself it is interesting to look at experiences with mergers in other sectors. A comparison with the concern is more obvious, as Mr Sent did. The bill stipulates that school boards should describe the way in which they are going to shape the human dimension in the fusion impact assessment. The assumption is that participation will be critically assessed. However, the proof of the pudding is in the eating, as we say in good Dutch, so let's get a good look at that. Regular satisfaction measurement seems appropriate. And then it can be very interesting to look at business. Because in business one indicator is used, at least in a lot of cases, to look at the satisfaction of the customer, the so-called net promoter score. If I recommend a product to you, and I do it proactively and I am positive about it, then that is a good indicator for my satisfaction. My question is therefore whether the government has considered looking at such a simple outcome indicator to gain insight into the polite quality. Mr. Chairman. The bill states that after three years, the Minister will carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness and impact of this law. The question is what we want to see, what effects we are going to see and when we can see that the law has the desired effect, especially since we are already working with a weakened form of the fusion test. With that question I arrived at the end of my first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u34	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren, on behalf of the PVV Group, after the chair has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a duty to prevent children from going to school in shrinking areas or where there are too few schools. But this also includes the responsibility to prevent such schools from being swallowed up by administrative colossals who lose sight of their core task, including guaranteeing a quality and pluralism of education. The merger test is anything but a step-in-the-way for cooperation in a shrinking region in order to anticipate falling numbers of pupils and thus ensure a future-proof education offer, although this has been suggested as the prime reason for saying goodbye to the merger test. For our group, the merger test is therefore a valuable and effective means of control, enabling the Minister in particular to continue to guarantee a great good, the freedom of varied and pluralistic education. Mr. Chairman. With the abolition of the fusion test for foundational education, the Minister's judgment on a merger lapses. The direct consequence of this is that the merger process will lie with local parties, including the municipality, the school board and the parents. Because a merger no longer requires the Minister's consent, this would create more room for local cooperation, which could be the solution to keeping smaller schools open which would otherwise have to be closed due to falling numbers of pupils. A compulsory fusion impact assessment and the right of assent of the co-decision council will replace it. In line with a statement by a gifted footballer, I would like to say that in that case any advantage alleged to have an advantage also has its disadvantage. This disadvantage means that the abolition of the merger test reduces the control on the scale of schools, including in schools on, for example, an Islamic basis. Where this can lead to, I have already explicitly highlighted in the previous debate on more room for new schools. By means of the merger test, the Minister was able to withhold his approval when there was a significant obstacle to the variation of the educational offer, which could contain an undesirable progressive Islamization of education. A varied educational offer in the region, sufficient diversity in different types of school, school sizes and forms of government, and parental choice are important criteria for school mergers. According to the PVV Group, the merger test is therefore a better guarantee against any undesirable scale increase. The merger test is certainly not an obstacle to cooperation, which is essential for maintaining a diverse educational offer. Mr. Chairman. Large school boards can also be dominant in areas where Islam is leading and where such school boards, whether obsessed or not, want to set out the lines for the education with which parents, pupils and schools also identify themselves. The right of consent of the mr, who has a decisive vote in the merger process, is, in our view, in a completely different light. The members of a mr must transcend their individual, personal interest. That is a condition; it must be. On paper, that's very nice, but the practice is uncomfortable. In a fusion impact assessment of a merger based, for example, on Islamic basis, its effects on freedom of choice and diversity will be described in a politically correct way, but practice and reality teach us that, in particular, freedom of choice and diversity is not generally the case. That is because the Islamic belief in life is anything but open to diversity. The merger impact assessment and the consent of the mr become at the heart of the merger process with this legislative amendment. So what the mr of the merger thinks is an important factor, which the minister hardly overruled. The human dimension must play an important role for the mr and the school board in the consideration of whether or not to merge, but what do we mean by "human measure," with the emphasis on "human" if it is the basis for a general submission to Islam and we can forget the multiform education offer? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with the next question to the Minister. Does the Minister share the concern of the PVV Group that, in particular, Islamic education can be a significant barrier to a varied and multiform education offer? Does he share the view that, if the merger test is retained, the Minister can continue to withhold his approval of an undesirable merger, which will become much more difficult after the merger test has been abolished? If not, why not? I'd like a well-motivated response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u37	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon we are discussing the abolition of the merger test. Actually, that's a totally wrong name for this bill. Because the merger test actually continues, but at a decentralised level. That's the place where it belongs, with the people who care about it. This proposal gives them a very great responsibility. It's been different. In 2011, we introduced the current merger test. If you read history again, you can see that this was a reaction to extremely large-scale mergers that took place in society at that time. In fact, it is amazing that, after the introduction of this still-in-law legislative proposal, we have not seen at all that large scale in all mergers. That is why out of the 250 mergers that have taken place after that, only seven were ultimately stopped and then on very different arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u38	Mr. Chairman. I have a question about what Mr Pijlman said earlier, namely that this bill actually has the wrong name because the merger test is not being abolished at all. Mr Pijlman says that it actually remains on a decentralised, local level. I am curious to see what he is talking about, because at the decentralised level there is a fusion impact assessment and involvement of the participation council. It seems logical to me that you should not engage in a merger without involving the co-determination council. That's not like a test. Or does Mr Arrowman see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u39	It is not a question of involving participation. It is a question of the right of assent of participation in this proposal, and that is quite different. By that you say: you have a fusion impact assessment and only if the participation consents can the merger continue. That's really something other than involvement. So you're putting the merger test down on a decentralised basis, and I think that's an expression of confidence in the participation, in the teachers and the parents that make up that participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u40	Apart from the question, there has also been referenced in other contributions to the question whether the participation council has a sufficient position, is sufficiently detailed to fulfil that role and whether you would like to leave this to participation alone, I wonder if Mr Pijlman already knows the Minister's answer to his question on this question, namely whether the merger test will continue at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u41	Well, I'm giving my own interpretation. The Minister has chosen to give this bill this name, but I think that is a wrong name. Of course, the merger test will be abolished with him, but it will remain at a decentralised level. And not only that, the fusion impact assessment strengthens the decentralised role of participation. That's what it's all about in the end. How could the Minister here in The Hague judge exactly what the local situation is like? On the contrary, I find it extremely strong and trusting to the people in the education you say: yes, you go about it, you decide about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u42	For the record, I should like to quote from the reply. It is an answer to a question from the D66 Group. The Minister then writes: "The Minister's test of planned mergers is due to the repeal of this bill, although the safeguards surrounding the merger are maintained at local level. However, these safeguards do not concern a merger test at a decentralised level." Then my simple question to Mr Pijlman is: does he disagree with the Minister on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u43	I have, of course, read the Minister's answers to my own questions. My translation is: I myself think that I am making a better analysis in this respect than the Minister. But we'll find out how he looks at it later. Moreover, I think that in a debate in the House of Representatives I am not quite sure that he said it himself: the naming of this law could have been different. But let's ask the Minister again. Here's to it. Mr. Chairman. What was the merger test about? Maintaining the human measure. Every speaker who has so far been on the floor is talking about this. How do we keep the human measure in education? In order to be able to take this step, the position of the participation councils has been strengthened. They assess, they are called upon to assess and agree or reject the new fusion impact assessment. That is precisely where the human measure is central, without the exact meaning of the human measure. No, you have to fill that out in a decentralised way, depending on the circumstances in which the schools are located. We very much believe in that confidence, even though I understand the speakers here, Mrs Sent and Mrs Adriaanse spoke about it, saying that it is important to put that participation in a position, to hold it in place and to support it. Only then can you gain that counterweight, which is so necessary, also for drivers. There has been some pre-emption before we take this merger test to the co-decision council. We've had the bill for cooperation school here. I think that is a very important element in the debate as we are now debating it. Because that allowed mergers between public and special schools, even within a larger dome, which allowed the small scale to continue to develop at school level under a larger umbrella. Especially now that the shrinkage is coming and, outside the Randstad, will affect almost the whole country for the next ten years, I believe that is a very important element. By means of administrative mergers, you can achieve the benefits of large scale if you ensure that the human dimension remains central at school level. Let's face it, the 2011 merger test doesn't exist anymore. It has been adapted in several ways and I believe it has been two years since the Minister also abolished the CFTO. I would also like to ask a question about this. Wasn't that anticipating this debate? Suppose this Chamber believes that the merger test should remain central, what does that mean for the CFTO, which already does not exist? Mr. Chairman. When assessing this proposal in detail, I have already said that the merger test as it stands is actually a bureaucratic monster. The key adds far too little. Indeed, we often abolish very few laws and regulations in this Chamber, but this is one that, while preserving the human dimension of education, we care about a lot of bureaucracy. I do have a number of questions for the Minister. The merger assessment also asks B and W of the municipalities concerned how they relate to the planned mergers. What exactly is the role of B and W in this? I mean that in particular, of course, I would almost say, in relation to Article 23 (4) GW on the maintenance and provision of adequate supply of public schools. How does it relate? Again, the question of how the cabinet ensures that it continues to test this. If we agree that this is no longer necessary, we must carry out a review of Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u44	I would like to return to the term 'bureaucratic monster', which Mr Pijlman used earlier in an interruption. I was wondering who exactly the fusion test in its present form is a bureaucratic monster. It is clear that, according to Mr Pijlman, this is the case. He mentioned "the schools" before. How does Mr. Pijlman know that? How many schools are we talking about? Is it about all schools or how large a percentage of schools? Is it about the people who work there? Is it about the teachers, about the parents or about the boards? That is not clear to me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u45	I quote the evaluation report. The field, which is very wide, has said the following. The average school board has barely increased in recent years. The average school size has barely grown in recent years. We have enshrined safeguards in the law which give consent to participation, the people in schools, when it comes to merger. Is there still a need for this central test, which involves a great deal of bureaucracy and bureaucracy? That's what the whole investigation is about. That's what I'm referring to. You can read it in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u46	Mr Pijlman is talking about the field. In the opinion of Mr Pijlman, can the General Education Association also be seen as one of the representatives of the field? Because it comes to a completely different analysis. Rather, they see another monster lurking, namely the sample of unbridled and uncontrolled scaling and thus the loss of human size, which this test is intended to stop. How does Mr Pijlman weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u47	You may have had other information, but I have read a very short letter from the AOb in which they pointed to the human dimension and wonder whether it is sufficiently guaranteed. A second comment they made was about the pseudofusion. That's all I've seen. I think that the new fusion evaluation report makes it very clear that the human dimension is central. That is what the assessment of mergers is about. This is a shift from perhaps the domes to the schools, but in those schools the human dimension must be secured. This is absolutely central to the merger evaluation report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u48	Finally, Mr President. In my view, the AOb has clearly indicated that because of that human measure, he considers the abolition of the merger test to be unwise. I have another question for Mr Pijlman. He's talking about a bureaucratic monster. Does this also apply to the current merger test, which Mr Pijlman himself says is in fact already largely undressed, relaxed, if not abolished? There's been a slight procedural test. Mr Pijlman himself also says that he has not stopped one merger. Is that also a bureaucratic monster? And if not, why would Mr Arrowman want to abolish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u49	Well, regulations that have hardly any function anymore should not be maintained. You'll agree with me soon. I am simply repeating what the people who have completed the evaluation, or the field, think. Once again, we may differ, but I think that there are sufficient guarantees at a decentralised level that you do not want and that I do not want large scale. That is what the practice has proven. The large scale was created before 2011 and has actually stopped after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u50	Of course, the introduction of the Merger Test Act could have made an important contribution to developments since 2011. There could be a causal link between the legislative proposal that we are now partly reversing and the developments supported by Mr Pijlman. But that aside. The question I have to Mr Pijlman is about the Education Council. In its intention in the coalition agreement, it indicated that the merger test should be maintained as an important instrument, otherwise there would be too high a risk of overcrowding. How does Mr Pijlman weigh that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u51	On your first question, we both don't know that. That is an assumption: since this is there, a certain development is unlikely to occur. But also about the Education Council: I think that there are now a lot more decentralised guarantees to prevent what is not desirable, what you do not think is desirable and what I do not think is desirable. I would also like to point out that the Rog/Van Meenen amendment adopted in the House of Representatives makes it possible for mergers to be evaluated. If they do not meet the objectives, there is the possibility to dissolve the merger. I would also like to ask a question about this in a moment. So we totally agree on what we want. We don't want that big scale. You think we need that emergency brake, as you just said. We believe that this can be done very well at school and with the teachers and the parents themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u52	Mr Pijlman stressed the importance of the role of participation and the fusion impact assessment. I agree with him that the title of the legislative proposal before us may be somewhat misleading. Those important instruments were already there, and they stay. So I am a little confused by Mr Pijlman's speech that we are now getting these wonderful instruments, because they were already there. Since the Act on Participation in 2006, the role of participation has existed. Since the Merger Test Act, we've had the fusion impact assessment. So these are not new elements. We're just losing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u53	You will agree with me that the cabinet has also made a great effort, with a number of projects which you have just mentioned in your speech, to strengthen that participation. For this, we didn't have the Collaborative School Act. Nor did we have the possibility that public and special schools could remain small-scale within a dome. It's all there now. So there is also a reason, at least for me, to support the cabinet and say: yes, it can now. The House of Representatives added the Rog/Van Meenen amendment. I think that's very sensible. This will evaluate a merger that has been carried out. If it's not successful, you might be able to dissolve her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u54	Mrs. Sent, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u55	Not a question, but a remark. For me, that's exactly the reason for maintaining that hand brake. But that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u56	Yes, I did understand that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask two more questions. The Education Association also talks about the possibility of stopping pseudo-fusions. What does this bill do with that? I would like a response from the Minister. Finally, a comment on the Rog/Van Meenen amendment adopted. Suppose there are a number of merger targets in the fusion impact assessment, but the evaluation shows that they are not being met. The amendment on this point states that the fusion impact assessment must specify how we then deal with the merger. Is it then true that only the competent authority, being the board, can dissolve the merger? Or are there others? Does the Disputes Commission, for example, still have a role to play in this? I'd like a response from the Minister. We await the Minister's answers with interest. I also see that time has not been running for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u57	That's to compensate him for walking too long. Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Mrs Bikker, on behalf of the Christian Union Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u58	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, even if a law starts with good intentions, this is not a guarantee of good results. In this Chamber, every law is held against the grounds of legality, enforceability and enforceability. Not only good intentions help a cause. But that doesn't mean the First Chamber can predict everything. The examination of the draft law repealing the merger test underlines this observation. At the same time, today we see the usefulness of an evaluation, to see what results a law actually has. We regret to note that the merger test had good intentions but did not profit from the fundative education. This is evident from the evaluation and also from the field study. Looking back, the group of the Christian Union can very well imagine that in 2011 the solution was sought in establishing a fusion test for the whole field of education. The scare was the situation around Amarantis, the large MBO dome where the financial problems were great and the quality of education was unfortunately under control. The introduction of the draft merger test brought a three-stage rocket, with the fusion impact assessment, the consenting power for the mr and the actual merger test at a state level. Measures for the whole field of education, from foundational education to higher education, with the aim of returning to human standards, to the realization that a school must form a recognizable community, while preserving pluralism. To that end, my group is still firmly saying yes. It is essential that schools are recognizable communities for pupils, parents and teachers. But the fusion test does not appear to be a good way of promoting this for primary and secondary education. In our view, the Minister has shown convincingly that the first two steps of this three-stage rocket, the fusion impact assessment and the right of assent, in the case of basic education, do contribute to a proper consideration of whether a merger is the right step. But that final phase, the merger test at a rich level, results in a lot of bureaucracy and waiting time and actually no result. So a lot of effort and schools that regress before entering an unconfirmed journey. Besides, time hasn't stood still. Pupils are falling, already, and will continue to be so in the coming decades. This presents a new challenge for shrinking regions and, unfortunately, this will become more and more. In order to maintain good and high-quality education, with room for choice for parents and pupils, with the guarantee that there is near education and to address the challenges facing these regions well, high-quality education is essential. Mr. Chairman. We therefore support the Minister in abolishing the national merger test, but I also have a few questions. What does the Minister intend to do to promote this human dimension and this recognizable community? This cannot only be enforced through supervision and inspection. The Minister has shown that large school boards can also take care of recognizable communities from various schools. That's good. Promoting this is an encouragement for all school boards, big or small. But does he think that enough has happened now to deal with the disadvantages of the scale increase that we found at the time? Or is there still the necessary work to be done at cultural level? Then what's the Minister thinking? How, for example, does the Dijkgraaf Committee recommend that the social responsibility of school boards be guaranteed by law? The Minister has previously promised to investigate this, but when will it become clear what the follow-up will be? Isn't that the same way that school administrators are determined by an important part of their job? What is the status of the follow-up study on administrative constructions that have arisen outside the Merger Test Act, the private schools, various holding companies and cooperatives? A view of the facts is necessary in order to make an assessment of the desirability of these schools and their forms of foundation. Mr. Chairman. The fraction of the Christian Union is in favour of maintaining that human measure and space for pluralism, the good core idea of this 2011 law. That remains the case, even after a part of the law has been abolished. In its last annual report, the Education Merger Review Committee made a number of further urgent recommendations. For example, she writes about this pluralism that it is the question of whether the parties involved can be expected to allow the maintenance of pluralism in the system to play a decisive role in their considerations. I quote: "The public interest of freedom of choice and pluralism at system level does not necessarily run in parallel with local and regional short-term interests. Local and regional decision-making can thus produce results that are not in line with the public interest of a system characterised by freedom of choice and pluralism." I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on this proposal. How does the Minister see this bill in this light and how does he involve this aspect in that upcoming review in three years' time? Finally, the role of the co-determination council is an important one to ensure the participation of those directly concerned, the people concerned. I read that Mr. External can seek advice at the school board's expense. My question to the Minister is whether he can put that into practice and whether he can keep his finger on the wrist or get it right. On this point, too, the CFTO made a recommendation, namely to invest the advisory function on a clear and identifiable point. Has the Minister considered this, or is he still prepared to see if there is a place where this could be done properly, so that a participation council and an individual member can easily find out on identifiable points who can give good advice on this issue? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group is in favour of laws and regulations which aim to achieve good, but which are also effective. The latter is not the case with the national merger test, which is why we can agree to the abolition. At the same time, we call on the Minister to focus on maintaining the human dimension, recognizable communities and promoting pluralism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u59	Mr Bikker, like Mr Pijlman, argues that the merger test, which is supposed to be abolished under this legislative proposal, was a bureaucratic obstacle. Mrs Bikker does not speak of a bureaucratic monster, but at least of a bureaucratic obstacle that ultimately did little because few mergers were stopped. The Minister has also pointed this out on several occasions. Now I would like to ask Mrs Bikker whether her group has also considered reaching a different conclusion. It is also true that the merger test did not stop very many mergers, because it did not work as well as it was intended to do, i.e. guarantee human standards. So you should adjust the fusion test so that the fusion test in that sense would be more effective. Why has that not been a consideration for the Christian Union Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u60	Thank you for this good question, but let us begin with that observation. I therefore note that the problems at the time of the introduction of the merger test were most visible in MBO and HBO. We see that the fusion test has been the least appropriate where the biggest problems were. We can see that the bulk of fusion applications is a literal quote from the evaluation of the fusion test in fundamental education. So the problem was in a different place and the merger test dropped in the foundation education. We then had to deal with bureaucracy and waiting time. That's one. The second also argued with my predecessor, Mr Remmelt de Boer, when he looked at the merger test on behalf of the Christian Union in 2011. He said that a large school board could also give substance to, for example, pluralism and the different ways in which values communities of schools are provided. A large school board is sometimes better equipped than all kinds of small school boards, who fight each other to get their own school to join parents the most. This sometimes gives more unity sausage than the diversity that can be more easily guaranteed under a larger school board. So that makes my group's balance a little different from that of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u61	The latter is clear. I would like to draw Mr Bikker's attention to a motion from the House of Representatives, on which I have already referred, of course, to which she does not have to feel obliged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u62	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u63	I'd still like to hear her reflection on that. This motion dates back to 2014, which is three years after the merger test was introduced, and was signed by Mr Voordewind, among others, with Mrs Bikker, well-known. This motion of member Ypma c.s. notes that the Merger Test Act is designed to ensure the human dimension of education and that the bill has been adopted unanimously. The motion then notes that the current policy rules were actually insufficient to guarantee human standards and then asked the government to amend the policy rules in such a way, by setting standards of 2,500 pupils in primary education and 5,000 pupils in secondary education as a threshold for commitment. That had kept a factual tightening of the completion of the merger test. The CFTO later also said that that would be a good idea. That didn't happen. There was then a relaxation. Mr Pijlman has also pointed this out. De facto, the draft law now before us would completely abolish the merger test. If it had been introduced, would there possibly have been more unwanted mergers stopped and would we have made the scaling-up manageable? Or does Mrs Bikker actually say that, in retrospect, what is in the motion, the concerns about scaling up scale and the human measure that the Christian Union had at the time in the Lower House, were not actually justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u64	I think it is a wonderful question to evaluate the work of my colleagues across the street. At the same time, I just want to look at this bill. The goal that my colleagues across the street had and have and what I have is to ensure that such a school is a recognizable community. I recognize that in Mr Voordewind's efforts on the other side, and that is also the aim that Mr De Boer had on behalf of the Christian Union in the discussion in 2011. That is also what I have here today. I do notice, even when I look at the figures of the merger test we have here today and in which Parliament has made choices, that whatever the Christian Union has done and no matter how big we are, it has always been 5 out of 150 seats, and here up to 4 out of 75 seats. So the majority here have made choices over time about what that merger test should look like. I see that no merger has been stopped in the last five years. At the same time, I do hear that schools are searching in it and sometimes do not dare to go to trial, because the outcome is uncertain. I also see that people in schools move to other forms of mergers. I'll say, "Let's go back to the core." What is really important to make such a school such a valuable community? Then I come to a point where I think the SP should be on the benches cheering. It's about strengthening the function of the mr, and that mr members know how to act. So you can see that there will be an involvement with that community. No matter how high I think this minister is, you can hardly measure that, yet I do not think he has any influence on exactly how that community organises itself. A mr does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u65	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u66	Yes, Mr. Chairman, the last one. When it comes to strengthening the mr, the Christian Union does indeed find the SP at its side. We have also made proposals to further strengthen the position of the mr, which have not been adopted in the House of Representatives. This is without prejudice to the fact that my group estimates the Christian Union that, apparently, otherwise, it is a matter of concern to you that if you make school boards ever bigger and bigger, although a merger can sometimes be useful and necessary, you will be at risk of placing the board at even more distance from the workplace. Many experts have also pointed this out. This leads to a loss in control, a kind of alienation and a sense of loss in human measure. This does not mean that big is always wrong, but that there can be a negative correlation between scale and human size.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u67	Yeah, but I'd like to say something about that. I am not advocating that all kinds of schools should be enlarged, quite the contrary. I merely call for this balance to be made at the place where it is to be made, namely in the regions with, for example, a reduction in the number of pupils. I am looking at how this is organized in the Achterhoek, for example, where schools can stay up by getting in on time. In this way, the valuable, public and special education is maintained. I'll weigh that care differently. At the same time, we also have a different weighting of what the government should do and what needs to come out of society. Maybe that also comes out of this debate somewhere. So I seek my salvation a little less in the bureaucracy and a little more in the community.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u68	Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u69	Get on with it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u70	The Christian Union Group wants to get rid of the national merger test. On the other hand, however, the Christian Union also wishes to underline the recognition, diversity and pluralism of the various schools, and it is worrying whether they are guaranteed. But doesn't the Christian Union agree that the merger test with the Minister's judgment is much better secured than leaving it to some mr or other local parties, who often have the upper hand and have their influence there, whereas a minister can judge it much more independently and objectively if a less pleasurable development should be stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u71	Thank you for this question, but once again we are talking about a different view of the government. I believe that education really starts with the parents and their children, the students, and with teachers. They together ensure good education in that region, in those villages and in those cities. It is precisely for this reason that I am asking the Minister what is going on with the legal definition of the social mission of school administrators. Because they're not there to run the business, they're there to make sure there's a valuable school in the region. I'm just looking for that local. In fact, if I sometimes see the suspicions of the Party for Freedom regarding the national government, I could almost imagine that Mr. Van Kesteren would also say: I would also find it much more pleasant in Groningen. But unfortunately he hasn't been convinced of that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u72	However, I would like to ask Mrs Bikker if she is not concerned if a certain identity of a school is threatened with being snowed under by another identity that has the majority with the parents and in the mr, with which she simply no longer stands a chance and goes along with such a board moloch and has no other choice. Practice often points that out. In that case, a government should assume a responsibility to stop certain developments that are not good for the freedom of education, but also not for the variation and pluralism in the provision of education. You'd do the same for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u73	Thank you for Mr Van Kesteren seeing things that adorn me; that is always beautiful. At the same time, I will not wear this rug, because I see it differently. I see it so that a mr from one school can say: I don't want to do this, because I don't want to be part of that other school. There are examples of this, in which the mr of a larger school community also says: I do not want that smaller school community yet or perhaps not at all. I think that is precisely the balance that can be made locally, wherever parents say: we have done our children at this school for a certain reason, we hope that this school will be maintained, and therefore hope that we can join another school board, while maintaining our identity, and that we can talk about that. But it may also be that parents say: we do not want that. That can be done very well through the mr, and that goes much less well through the minister, because that proves the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u74	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u75	I would like to ask Mrs Bikker the following. Suppose there is a Catholic school, and the population of students changes due to demographic changes. It turns out that many Islamic children are sitting on it and a small number of Catholic children. Now there is a development that is changing that education very gradually, leaving little of the identity of the original school. What do you think if something like that happens? Parents' interests point to this, and a board is also gradually being replaced. Eventually you can say that it is still a Catholic school with a Catholic government in name, but that the practice is in fact very different. And all of a sudden Catholic education isn't much left. What do you think of such a development? 'Cause there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u76	Mrs Bikker, you will conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u77	I get that, Mr. Chairman, although we're getting to a beautiful question now. Because I would love it if a lot of people chose Christian education from passionate conviction. Nor will Mr Van Kesteren be surprised. At the same time, I also see that there are places where people make different choices. It's just that if a school board says it's a Catholic school, the school board has that to guarantee. That's what all the arrangements are for. A participation council is not a vehicle that is hostilely taken over. On the contrary, there are representatives of the parents and of the teachers who talk there, including the school board. So that hostile takeover Mr Van Kesteren sketches, I don't really recognize as threatening as he sees it. And if he thinks it is such a threat, I would say, above all, make sure that many people are passionate about Christian education. Then he doesn't have that problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u78	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Finally, I shall give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, after the chair has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u79	Mr. Chairman. The political debate on education issues is never just about the concrete issue ahead, but also about the underlying vision of education. It is also always about the task of education for our children and for the benefit of society. That's why it's always about the big questions we face as a society. In a previous debate, therefore, we discussed the risk of segregation in detail. And in today's world, we cannot ignore the question of how we deal with polarisation, discrimination and racism. Those who take the great social unrest seriously must, among other things, ask how education can contribute to connection and inclusiveness, to equal opportunities and social cohesion, to respect for difference and to respect for one another. I am aware that these questions are not central to the present proposal and I do not want to suggest that attention to these questions by definition leads to a vote for or against, but I do say that we should not dismiss this proposal as a technocratic debate and that everything we do here, including in this House, is in the light of urgent social developments. That is why it is good that, in this debate too, and in the contributions to it so far, those underlying questions are always addressed. In this light, the underlying demand in the fusion test in the foundation education is the demand for the human dimension and the desirable scale. The merger test was then established under a cabinet of CDA, ChristenUnie and PvdA, with unanimous support in the Lower House and almost Chamberwide in the Senate. This human dimension was central to the argumentation and throughout the debate. Against a movement of scaling up and administrativeisation in the latter, it has not yet been so decided by the Cabinet and Chambers to build in guarantees that, if necessary, the Minister can block a merger. Fortunately, many times the Minister did not have to intervene. Of the 219 merger applications since the law came into force, 15 negative opinions were advised and the Minister accepted this negative opinion in seven cases. You can certainly draw the conclusion that the system works well. In 97% of the cases, the merger application is approved. This gives, as the explanatory statement states, the confidence that a careful consideration of proposed mergers takes place at local level. Of course, the most interesting thing is not that 97%. The most interesting thing is the 3% in which the minister stopped the merger. It has been mentioned earlier this afternoon that the fusion test appears to work as an emergency brake. Fortunately, it is not often necessary and you should also use it sparingly. But if you find that the emergency brake was only used at 3% of the journeys, wouldn't it be sensible for a person to remove the emergency brake? I'm just glad you have an emergency brake for the few times you need it. If you can reduce the number of times you use the emergency brake by, for example, improving and adjusting your accelerator, and adding some other electronics that make you more aware of what is happening and can therefore slow down earlier, doesn't that mean that you have to remove the emergency brake because your further equipment has improved? However, the current government wants to get rid of the emergency brake, with the support of two parties who helped to install it. I repeat the first argument only once, because I do not think it is correct. The first argument in the explanatory memorandum is the coalition agreement, even though it only referred to the merger test in the context of the shrinkage problem. It is also stated that due to all kinds of developments in education it was necessary to relax the merger test on parts and that it is now time to abolish it, especially because the field is not happy with it. That is something to take seriously, but my group would like to begin by asking who exactly is meant by 'the field'. We do, in fact, read something about school boards, but we do not hear much about the perspective of parents, teachers and students, while the General Education Association, which has already been quoted, is quite critical of the proposal. Could the Minister be more precise about the wishes of "the field"? Secondly, my group would like to hear more about the alternatives. According to the Rules of Procedure, referring to the coalition agreement is not sufficient argument. There must always be an exploration of alternatives. In this case, the question is whether the removal of an emergency brake is proportionate to solving the problems. A number of laws, such as the possibility of cooperation schools, seem to be more useful in dealing with specific problems in shrinking areas, for example. In terms of quality management, we have legislative proposals that strengthen the need for equity and what is more. My question to the Minister is therefore: what problem cannot be solved if the merger test is maintained? In this context, I would like to ask a very specific question about the overlap. Its relaxation is important for schools in the Wadden Islands. That's what we read in the explanatory memorandum. The question also arises as to whether this law and the abolition of the merger test are necessary for this purpose, or whether the ministerial regulation offers or could offer sufficient room for adjustment to it. After all, it determines the overlap rate. Does that provide a sufficient basis for the Minister to solve this particular problem for the Wadden Islands? If that is not the case and this law would, unexpectedly, fall before him here, is the Minister prepared to submit this specific amendment to the Chamber as soon as possible in the event of that loss in Article 72 of the WFO? Because we all agree that the problem needs to be solved. I'd like a response from the Minister. I already see a commitment in the smile on his face. In the explanatory statement, my group reads that the current merger test is perceived as a difficult and complex process with an uncertain outcome, with the Minister's authorisation process taking too long. Clear language, then, we think, which should lead the Minister to make a decision more quickly; not to abolish the emergency brake, but to use the emergency brake properly and quickly. Slowness on the part of the Minister can never be a reason to abolish the emergency brake. If the outcome is uncertain, it is obvious to clarify the criteria. This will require tightening up the test framework and not abolishing the test. Why has the government not chosen these improvements to the current system? I'd like a response from the Minister. But I started by saying that politics is more than technocratic discussions. The big question remains how we maintain the human dimension in education. In theory, my group believes that this can be done both with and without a merger test. But the question is what kind of signal do we want to send to the world of education? Have we really reached a completely different stage than nine years ago, when almost the entire parliament supported the merger test? Are the human size and the administration suddenly no longer a problem? Have we secured it so well that the emergency brake is no longer necessary for the adjustments that have been made? Does that emergency brake stand in our way so far that the few times the Minister uses it should be stopped? My group is not yet convinced that this is the sensible message from government and politics. We see much more in the smart adjustment. If the emergency brake no longer needs to be used, the better. Then we'll test him once a year and move on. But in view of the human dimension, we see the great importance of not growing too far apart from the board of a school and the classroom. With all the good things that can be said about human size and about a local establishment of a school and with all those good words, the distance between the administration, which is further away from a larger community, and the classroom has grown. We think that's why it's good to have such an emergency brake. In short, Mr President, my group is not yet convinced of the need for this bill and we fear that it will send the wrong message. But before we finalize this assessment, we would like to hear the Minister's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'll take a look at the minister. Minister, do you have enough of 20 minutes until 4:00 p.m.? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u81	The subject is now the continuation of the examination of the Law 35104, Amendment of the Law on Primary Education, the Law on Secondary Education, the Law on Centres of Expertise and the Law on Participation in Schools in connection with the abolition of the merger test in fundamental education. I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Chamber, the honourable Members, for their contribution in the first term. Mr Van Apeldoorn spoke of a déjà vu feeling. That's what I've got myself. It is a joy to be here again and to debate legislation with you, because that is also the most beautiful thing there is. I have built up my answer as follows. I have a very brief introduction. Secondly, I would like to mention the strengthening of the fusion impact assessment and the position of the mr, because that is an important part of this law. Thirdly, I would like to mention the abolition of the national merger test, but the strengthening of local decision-making, which is also a follow-up to my response to the second part. Fourthly, I would like to mention the adjustment of the institutional merger, partly because of the situation in some of the Wadden Islands. There is one Member who has asked a question about this, but that is a very important one, even when it comes to this law. As a fifth, I have a number of other questions, in which I can answer questions about shrinkage, scale, research that is going on and so on and so on. Then I hope I have answered the many questions that have been asked. Then I come to my brief introduction. I like it because there is also a historian here that many have looked back in time. In the past, quite unanimous choices have been made with regard to parts of this law, which now shines a different light. That is true, but it is also clear that a great deal has happened in recent years. Not only have there been changes in the way the law was put into practice. There was also room for this, including through changes to the regulations. But there has also been a huge contraction in the country, which has hit both primary and secondary education in an enormous way. As a result, we have turned our eyes again to the merger of schools, whether institutional or not, because we also saw a joint task of maintaining education in certain regions. That was intense sometimes. Those were choices that might never have been made in the years before. I am thinking of a merger that took place in the northern part of the country, and then I am looking at Mr Van Kesteren where a large school community, Ubbo Emmius, one of her secondary establishments, in Veendam, has transferred to Winkler Prins. Those are really schools of different denominations, as you know. That was in the interests of the pupils, to maintain close education at a time of shrinking. At the time when we are talking about this issue and going back to 2011, it is also good to bear in mind that a lot has happened in the years after that, not only through court rulings, but also through developments in the population, which have had an impact on mergers or not, in order to maintain education. This brings me to the point of strengthening the fusion impact assessment and the position of the Mr. Let me put it this way: in the course of my presidency, I have become even more alert to the way in which legislative proposals are summarised in titles. We saw the same thing in the previous bill. It is often a bit more nuanced than in which you want to summarize it in one sentence. It now seems as if this bill is only about abolishing a merger test. It is true that something is being abolished at national level, as I will explain on my next point. But this bill consists of more, and that was also true for the 2011 bill. A very important part of the law was participation. It had been placed in the position since 2007 to give an opinion on mergers, even with the right to consent. But in the years to 2011 there were actually very few possibilities and handles to do so in a good way. That is why the 2011 draft law introduced the fusion impact assessment. It also sets out fairly precisely the elements on which information, including good information, should be provided, which should be involved in the decision-making process on mergers. This has helped the participation councils in the years after that to make their choices much better supported and also equipped with concrete information. Moreover, this was helpful not only for the participation councils but also for the competent authority, the director, to make good agreements on the effects and the reasons for a merger before a decision was finally reached. We have always formally said that this is the legitimacy of the merger process, which has been strengthened by the 2011 law. Of course, you will not be unaware of the fact that we are further strengthening that legitimacy and the fusion impact assessment in this law. We're gonna make another shot at that in two ways. Maybe I should start with the amendment from the House of Representatives. The CDA and D66 have, by means of an amendment, made it necessary to agree on what should happen if it were to become apparent, if it were to be merged, that it would not work out as it had been intended. That's what the Chamber went with. I've also given it Judgment Room. Agreements are made as to what would then be the next steps of the school, the competent authority, in relation to the future. It's always nice to make good deals about it before you're in such a situation. The fact that this has to be part of the fusion impact assessment is now also guaranteed by law. The competent authority will always be responsible for it. This is, of course, also at the service of what it is legally called to do. For me that was the only reason, the only reason, that I had to discourage one amendment. That was the SP amendment, which wanted to give the Mr the position of the competent authority when it comes to opt-out options. All the other amendments I have given the House's opinion. These were two amendments from the SP, another one from GroenLinks and the one I have just mentioned, from the CDA and D66, or from D66 and the CDA. I don't remember exactly what the order was. They have therefore included this element in the fusion impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u83	I wonder if we're not having too much of a semantic discussion right now. Do I hear the Minister say that we do have a merger test, including at local level? After all, the assent of the co-determination council is essential for the assessment by the directors of whether the merger is the right decision. I would actually be in favour of it, because I would love it if we could appeal to participation in this way, in the way it deserves. Because the assessment by participation is very important. So I'd say, let's call it what it is. Let's call it a local test, which is subject to certain conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u84	I was not ready to abolish the national merger test and the decentralised strengthening of local authority, with the mr as an important part of the position they have. Indeed, I am not waiting for semantic discussions. That's not very fertile. I think we should take a very, very practical look for a sec. It should not be a technocratic debate, I repeat to Mr Ganzevoort. We also have to look at how the facts have developed, but I will come back to the next part separately. I was more concerned with the fact that the merger impact assessment came into force in 2011. He wasn't there before. At that time, the co-determination council had the right of assent, but in doing so it was reasonable to be in the dark: what do we base ourselves on? This has given them much more leverage. We now want to strengthen that further. I am really convinced that this is very important to put them in even more position than is already the case, but I will say a few more words later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u85	Let me come back to the effects of that Van Meenen/Rog amendment. I just asked you this. Soon the fusion impact assessment will include what happens if the targets are not met, but then it will be up to the competent authority to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u86	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u87	There's no other way. Suppose the competent authority doesn't comply for any reason. So what's the situation? Is it then the Disputes Committee that can decide on this? What position does the co-determination council have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u88	At the time when the competent authority makes other choices and it is choices that have to be submitted to the mr, then you and I can, in my opinion, figure out what kind of situation they are in. That is not going to be very nice, because then there will be a deviation from previous agreements. The question is, of course, how concrete these agreements are. It will always be borne in mind that if you are a few years further away in time, such a situation must also be taken into account. But in the end, it is true that, at the moment when there is a stalemate between the competent authority and the mr and has the right of consent, one of the two parties can go to the dispute committee and ask for an opinion. That judgment, as you know, is decisive. I have done so again in preparation for this debate, and I shall look at all kinds of statements that have been made. Then you can see that it's very variable who gets to the longest end. There are situations in which the Disputes Committee agrees with the competent authority, but there are also cases in which the Mr is simply right in the Disputes Committee. That is the way in which we have legislated with each other. That will remain in full force. It's, I think, also very nice that those who have some worries are all in place locally and are you okay? It is also possible to have a higher level of scrutiny and to have an opinion on it. Mr. Chairman. What we also reinforce further in the fusion impact assessment report, which is much mentioned in the various contributions, is what we call 'human measure'. That too must now be part of the fusion impact assessment. That is a concept that is quite broad. In the public documents, I think it occurs from 2008 on when it comes to education. But of course there are issues such as "how do you deal with your staff?', "How do you look at the bowl?" And "what are the consequences, including for the identity of your establishments? I'll just call it that at the time you might be part of another school group?'. In short, this whole content is also part of the fusion impact assessment and is therefore also part of the choice that the mr can take into account. Which brings me to an important part of this law. The fact that we are further strengthening the fusion impact assessment is a good thing, but in the end the aim that Mr.... I say it in formula 1 terms is not going through pole position this year. The mr's really gonna be in pole position. The mr is ultimately the organ that decides. If they stick their thumbs up, it goes on. If the thumb goes down, I can't make it more graphic, then the merger doesn't go down. They have the right to consent. We recorded that properly, as I said just now, back in 2007. But we have further strengthened that position of the mr since 2011, and I want to continue with that now. Questions have been asked about this by Mrs Adriaansens in particular. Those are legitimate questions, I think. She asked: how does that work in practice? I have been in this position for two and a half years now, but I know it started before. More and more the spotlight has been put on the mr and it is said: that is an important organ. Of course, it has always been, but the responsibilities with which we equip them and the subjects they are allowed to speak on are only growing. You know that this cabinet intends to give the Mr also the right to vote on the main lines of the budget. So we are also in the process of putting the mr in a position in which they have an important role to play. We've supported them in recent years. That's what happened from a public body. We're going to do that privately from now on, because there was a hint of state aid hanging over there. But we will continue to support them. "Support" means that we want to further professionalise them, to use that word, and that we offer them the opportunities to acquire knowledge themselves, not only by growing as a person in their role, but also by gaining knowledge on very specific topics, also externally. The competent authority is also required to state properly in the Participation Act to pay that, so they also have a right to do so. With an amendment by GroenLinks, which I finally judged Chamber, I saw some discussion on the impact, but all in all I have said is that I think that added value is now also legally guaranteed that they should be involved early in the reflection by the competent authority on possible mergers. In this respect too, they are very closely involved. Again, that is logical and it is necessary, because they are ultimately the ones who have it in their hands; they can stop something or give way. So it is important to place the mr in that pole position and fully support them in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u89	I believe that formula 1 will be resumed this year, but let's put that in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u90	I have been active in the world of mergers and acquisitions my entire working life, so I am particularly interested in this subject. I have just heard about the participation council saying that in practice it is comparable to the works council, which often has the right of assent. However, in general mergers are much more concerned about the reaction of the Dutch Competition Authority, now the ACM, and in larger-scale mergers of the European Union. When I hear all of this, I have spoken to people in the education sector, the PO Council, and I see two things, in fact. On the one hand, there is a need for mergers, especially where there is a smaller scale, for example in rural communities, where there are two schools in a village. Then you can say: you add them together, because fewer children come. On the other hand, the abolition of the merger test can also lead to an enormous increase in scale, which, I think, is not desirable. Following merger controls in business, for example, it would be much more logical to build a particular soil: under a certain size you do not have to do a fusion test and above that, when it comes to more than so many pupils and more than so many bodies, you do. I grew up in a village school myself, but my children are in Amsterdam in schools with a board that covers 40, 50 schools. These are very large-scale organisations, so I do not think that this scale should be increased further. My question to the Minister, through the President, is: is he prepared to make such an adjustment, thus introducing some sort of threshold? You don't have to do a fusion test below that threshold, but you do up there. I think that would be Columbus' egg in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u91	I'm already a little ahead of the next part, but that threshold was already there. There was even a percentage in terms of market share that you were not allowed to exceed 50%. When you come from the business world, you will recognize such terms, but in education we also use them from time to time. In the end, the Council of State has put a stop to this. We had set such a threshold. Everything underneath wasn't under the heavy test. There was no need to give advice on this at national level either. Eventually, a ruler could have acted on it, so to speak, but the Council of State said: no, that is not sustainable. We then went through to the end. When I say "we," I'm also talking about my predecessor, but in the end we had to accept that the ruling of the Council of State was as it was. We must therefore not make such demands in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u92	The market share criterion in this case, because it concerns schools, is not very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u93	It has to do with the size.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u94	It's about the scale, in the sense that you have a certain minimum under which you don't do a fusion test. This is also the case in the case of the European merger regulation and, in my view, in the case of the Dutch merger test. It is not a market in the sense of a normal market. It's funded by the government anyway. There are more schools and more directions. Can it then somehow not be linked to a particular scale or to how many schools it concerns, or how many establishments, or the size of the location where the school is located? You can be creative about that, can't you? You can do something with that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u95	That market share had precisely to do with the scale and size, the range that a school board could have with regard to the provision of education in the region. I'll come back to that later, but we kind of got wet there. That may be very visual, but it has simply not proved to be sustainable. This has ultimately had a huge impact on the way the merger test has worked in practice. I found that striking: no one mentioned this, but it was a very important reason why it was different in the years after 2015 than we intended to do with each other, unanimously, in 2011. More questions have been asked, so I will come back to them separately, but I was concerned about the fusion impact assessment and the position of the Mr. We therefore want to strengthen it further. I've made proposals of my own. I gave the Chamber's amendment a ruling. In the end, that was also given to majorities. It also seems to me appropriate to realise that this helps them in the important task they have. We also invested financially in it. That is what we are going to continue with in the near future, because it is important. The 'MR academy', as it is now called with a beautiful word, I see as a very nice next step. It has already been installed and will continue to support the mrs, not only in this important task which can be very decisive, but also in all other responsibilities, whether or not related to the right of advice or consent. I have just pointed out to Mr Pijlman that at the moment when things are not going well in practice between the competent authority and the masters, if one does not get out, there is the possibility of looking for it higher up. This is also being used. That is a small bridge to the second part of the law, my third point, namely the abolition of the national merger test and the further strengthening of what is possible locally to stop or not to stop a merger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u96	Mr. Chairman. However, a few questions about the position of the co-determination council. The Minister states that it is placed in a position, even in a pole position. I have two points. The mr is not put into pole position when it comes to the role one has to play after an evaluation, if it fails negatively. There's gonna be an evaluation after a merger, and it turns out that evaluation is negative. Then the mr can't decide to defuse. That's correct, isn't it? That's where the minister made another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u97	It is not a question of making a different choice there, but de facto I believe that you used that word in your contribution too. The competent authority, including the legal one, must come up with proposals. And also responsible for putting forward proposals, including to a mr, regarding choices it wants to make to the future. You can also agree on how to act at the front. We know that if you make other choices there, you will get the same mr on the road, who has the right to consent with regard to whether or not to merge. The mr's gonna be able to say, no, we're not gonna go along with that. At the moment when the mr is not involved, the situation arises that things cannot go on or that they are submitted to a dispute committee which then gives a binding opinion on this matter. It is not the case that they are powerless on the side, but it is therefore de facto a competent authority with all the legal consequences and they are the ones who have to make the proposals. It can never be the case that unilaterally a mr decides to take a school out of a school group, for example. That is contrary to everything that affects the responsibilities that a competent authority has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u98	The minister said earlier that when it comes to whether or not a merger takes place, it is a matter of: the mr raises the thumb and then it goes on or the mr puts the thumb down and then it doesn't go on. This does not therefore apply in the case of a possible defusion decision. It has previously been found that, unlike business, it is very difficult in practice for large schools to split up. The SP wonders whether this will be made easier. What is actually being changed to make this diffusion easier? In the end, that remains very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u99	This bill is not intended to make all kinds of mergers easier. This bill has been made to make choices at the time of the merger of schools or to ensure that there are institutional mergers. A school which now has its own school administration then becomes a secondary establishment of a school that can still offer education in that area. In short, in such situations there is an orderly process whereby the mr is ultimately the body that can determine whether or not that merger is going to happen. That's the pole position. That gentleman has a very big part to play in that. The debate on defuse is interesting, also in terms of equality of opportunity, what happens in schools and the responsibility you take for schools. Even if schools are vulnerable, it is important to keep them under your care and make choices in them. At a time when a school board also thinks that a part of that school should stand on its own two feet and is interested in it, it is important that it can be chosen and put before it. At the moment that the competent authority would like to do so, we have now, with the law that you have not supported, given room for setting up a school somewhere if there is sufficient support from parents. It is not a direct merger, but it will be possible, if there is a real interest in another school, to set up it with all the rights that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u100	From Apeldoorn, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u101	I note, however, that this law extends the possibility of mergers on the one hand, which allows for economies of scale, and, on the other hand, if it turns out that a merger has not had the added value that was hoped for, and possibly until, I paraphrase Mr Pijlman, an administrative monster of a mega-government is passed, the possibilities for defusion are still limited. But I have also put another question to the Minister about the role of the Mr in relation to so-called pseudo-fusions. This is something that the General Education Association has also drawn attention to. Can the mr be put in pole position there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u102	I'll come back to that separately later. Your conclusion that there will now be more possibilities for mergers again You will also paint images of very large boards and by your face and to hear your choice of words is that not really the perspective you find attractive, I really want to contradict. It is very doubtful whether that will ultimately be the outcome. That's my next block. That national merger test was indeed considered very bureaucratic. Mr. Ganzevoort asked who the "we" were. You know that boards also have national representatives. They express, on behalf of their governments, the judgments and opinions they have on how to pass through the mill in order to reach a final judgment. This was particularly a common complaint in the first few years. That's gonna be less later. That was one part of a process that started with the deletion of the "national merger test," to name him that way. I say to you in all honesty and openness that this has never been decisive for me. It was a judgment, though. Something may well be perceived as bureaucratic, but at the moment you think it's necessary, so be it. That's not all that matters in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u103	I think the expression 'national merger test' sounds almost like a party; as if an event should take place. But I don't think that's what the Minister means. With his description of the field sounds exactly something of the concern we have. He refers to the boards, the governing organisation and so on. That's a dimension of the field. That's exactly the governance we're worried about. I hear different parties talking about this. I hear Mrs Bikker talking about this extensively. She says: it is about teachers, local people, participation and so on; it is about the community of the school. The minister's talking about the boards in the field. I hope he doesn't mean it alone, because that would be exactly the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u104	Of course, the boards represent what I call the "competent authority." We collect from them what their experiences are with topics. It's happening all over the place. This does not only happen on this subject, but on many subjects. They share this with those who have administrative responsibility at national level. That happens regularly in my administrative meetings. It may also be the case that letters come from an individual school group to The Hague, in which one tells what one runs into. It happens all the time. I fully agree with you: that is not everything. A school and a community of a school are more than just the boards. This includes teachers, students and parents. There is even a community around the school that can sometimes talk about a school with a lot of warmth and love, and not just because one has ever been a student there. In short, that is much wider. You have to take that into account. I'll say something about that later. Do that when I have said something about what has happened in recent years and what consequences it has ultimately had for the choice at national level not to include the merger test as formulated in the law, and on which a minister could still judge, in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u105	The question I have asked, I think, is exactly in line with this. How has that field been consulted in a broad sense or involved in this consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u106	This is a summary of what has been built up over the years since 2011. It goes without saying that this law has also been submitted and that everyone has been able to respond to it. You know how that goes, namely with an internet consultation. Anyone who would like to say anything about this has the opportunity to make a contribution, although you have no involvement in education, so to speak, but you have no involvement in such a law. This has been widely used. It is clear that there are many discussions about this law. I get that. If you only focus on the fact that something is now being taken out of the law at national level which has not functioned in recent years, the question is how serious that is. That is, of course, also a political judgment. I thought it was Mr Ganzevoort himself who had the numbers ready. The law was created in 2011 and over time the directives have been amended several times. Since 2011, there have been 219 applications that had to be tested. That was in line with the threshold I was just talking to Mr Otten about. It was also Mr Ganzevoort who indicated that 7 out of 219 mergers had ended. Then you can say: there are seven, so it is important that there is such an emergency brake to use Mr Ganzevoort's words. In 2015, there was a situation in the north, around Dokkum. This has been carried out because, on the basis of the opinion of the CFTO, my predecessor at the time said that the merger should not be continued. In the end, the Council of State said: this is not sustainable. It's not sustainable for you to set such a limit. You'll always have to look at the content. Just the fact that something is getting bigger is not an independent reason. If we had tested the seven that were stopped after the Council of State's ruling, then no one would have stopped it. I think it's okay to put this very sharply. Stopping those seven could no longer have been possible after 2015, after the ruling of the Council of State. I went through the statement of 11 February 2015 if you google for a moment, and you went through it again. I think it's very important. Mrs. Sent mentioned fact-based. This is fact-based. These are facts that have arisen. So the Council of State has made a statement that has been quite decisive for the follow-up. Mr Pijlman has also rightly referred to the law on cooperation schools. That too was indeed very decisive for the fact that it suddenly appeared in a different light, because we had arranged it in a different way. So that law on cooperation schools and the ruling of the Council of State have created a completely different playing field from 2015. It's good to really weigh that in. From that time on, no test has been asked of a ruler to speak on this matter, and at a very rapid rate we saw that the CFTO cost EUR 500 000 a year for that whole advisory body with everything around it in its final year finally gave two further opinions. Then one can calculate how much this cost per opinion. Mr Otten will know that these amounts are still slightly above the hourly price charged in the consultation for mergers. It's been quite a sum in the end. And in the end, the outcome was that the mergers could just go ahead and didn't have to be stopped with the law as it was at the time. This too is fact-based, I say to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u107	Not only the minister, but also first-term speakers often cited the need for the merger test, because so few plans for school mergers have been rejected. But can it not be, if we approach it the other way round, that precisely because of the existence of this test people are delivering very decent merger plans and that so few mergers, fortunately, need to be stopped? Ergo, the merger test is very effective. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u108	Mrs. Nanninga mentioned the merger test as a watchdog. In any case, I can see that that watchdog has not been out of his loft for five years when it comes to the way in which he was given a place in the law, in order to get through your metaphor. I will not deny that this law has also worked disciplinedly towards the field of education. Of course a law is disciplined. But that discipline is still in there. Because the moment you're out of order and you're not well prepared to submit your proposals to the co-determination council, who's in a position that he can just make you and break you, just to put it in other terms, it's done, too. Then you're not gonna make it. That too will continue to work disciplinedly, especially if we further strengthen the position of the co-determination council. You just have to go through there. So you can't come up with shit and think that you can mess around for a while. The participation council has developed so strongly in recent years that I have every confidence that this will continue to work well. This has also been the practice of recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u109	I am happy to return to my second term of office on the subject of participation, with your permission. I want to stay with that watchdog for a while now, it's nice that that watchdog, even though it doesn't have to bite burglars in their calves so often, sits in that pen, because that keeps a lot of burglars off your property. And if we go through the equation: I see the local assessment level, including the participation council, as a very nice fence around the yard. That's good, because that does stop a lot of bullshit. But why in God's name would you abolish that watchdog? I just don't get it. If you have an extra emergency brake, or watchdog or whatever you want to call it, you better have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u110	It's probably a choice, too, deep down. Maybe I'll put it up a little. It is a choice of trust in the participation council, confidence in the position we give them. To be honest, I also find it touching that you have a great deal of faith in a ruler. It is mainly opposition parties who are expressing their views on this issue. That's a moment to think about each other. That watchdog is the minister. It's gotten the position where he can eventually stop something. That's what happened out of 219 times seven times. With today's legislation and the statements of the Council of State, that would not even be possible anymore. I appreciate that confidence. Let me be very clear about that. But I'm relying on a co-determination council. I have seen that this has also been a growth process for me, also driven from another role, that they really took that position. It is not entirely comparable to business in this sense either, because in a participation council in education, of course, you have the representatives of the pupils, of the parents and of the teachers. Mrs. Sent asked about the teachers. They are in a position to express their views on this matter. If there is such a proposal, they can consult with the teachers and express their opinion. There are several examples in the country where in the end the strong voice of teachers did not allow mergers to continue. Sometimes it did, because it served a great interest. This also had to do with the provision of education in a particular region. Think of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, for example. Without mergers there, which have been far-reaching, the supply of education in some places would simply have disappeared completely. There is now. So I really have faith in it. I hope to convince you, so that you also have more confidence than you may have now. Most of all, you have faith in the Minister. Again, I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u111	We're not against mergers if they're necessary. Of the blessings of local judgment by people who are really in the field, you don't have to convince us. Let me just say that in my second term I would like to return to that co-determination council. The minister explains it as confidence in the minister. I keep seeing it as a necessary emergency button.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u112	Mrs Nanninga still has a bit of tension about what she's going to say about the participation council. I would like to reiterate the position of the Minister. To use Mr Ganzevoort's metaphor: the minister is ultimately the one who holds the emergency brake. In the period from 2011 to 2015, something was stopped there seven times. There were 15 opinions, so eight times it has been said: keep going. We now know from the ruling of the Council of State that these seven times after 2015 would not have been sustainable. In the last five years, nothing has been presented that had to be stopped. These are also things that we have to consider, including in our overall judgment whether something groundbreaking and earth-shifting is happening here or whether we are perhaps just trying to make further reinforcement from the reality that has arisen take place on the ground, where ultimately the judgment is given and in which I am confident. That's where we leave the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u113	With regard to the last interruption debate, which was about confidence in the minister versus confidence in the co-determination council, I could also well imagine that many co-determination councils feel supported by the existence of a national watchdog and test, but this aside. I had a question about the figures which the Minister mentioned and continues to mention. I heard him mention them in the Lower House. He says that only seven out of over 200 mergers have been stopped. That would be an argument to abolish the merger test. I have now heard three arguments from several Members of this House, including myself, against that argument. Mr Ganzevoort's first argument is that this is an emergency brake. Fortunately it doesn't have to be used too often, but it is nice and good and necessary that he is there. The second argument is that Mr Nanninga has just given that the existence of that merger test ensures that, within the limits of that merger test, schools ensure that proposals for merger look clean and meet certain conditions. I have also said that there is a certain preventive effect. That's a related argument, which the CFTO also made. On top of that one could argue, whatever the CFTO has done, that it may also be conceivable that in some cases mergers have gone ahead, which should not have been continued. This is because the instruments are incomplete and the policy rules are not properly implemented. In fact, I have not heard the Minister reply to all three points. On that last point, I hear him say: yes, the Council of State has made a previous standard legally impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u114	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u115	I cannot imagine that the Council of State would make any policy in this respect impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u116	That last point was a very important one with regard to what ultimately ended up with the then ruler in cases on which he had to give a judgment, in accordance with the law as we had made it with each other. When that went down, you saw at a very rapid rate the number of proposals that did not meet that test dried up, because there was room for that. Eventually there was no need to make use of this possibility in the law, that there was eventually an emergency brake on the fifth floor of the Ministry of OCW. So that's point one. I have just mentioned a second point. The law together stronger through simplification cooperation school has also had huge consequences on the number of cases submitted. This has meant enormous simplification in order to bring schools together, at a time when there was a need and sufficient support for it. This, too, has prevented situations from continuing in the direction of the ruler. The same question was asked. If I look back at the numbers, which are just facts, then the seven that have been stopped could also be stopped in that situation. After 2015, however, that was no longer possible. The facts are also that after 2015 there has never been a situation in which a ruler had to give a judgment. The whole system of checks-and-balances, and ensuring that well-balanced judgements can be made, has persisted in the sense that it has been strengthened in the base. As far as I am concerned, that is a very good choice. I just trust these people. I also believe that they should remain in that position and be strengthened in the exercise of the important responsibility they bear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u117	May I ask you to use the interruptions they are intended for, namely short questions? I'll give you a second term. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u118	I'll be brief. At least I'm noticing... Now that the President has called me to shorten my question, I have lost my point. I'll come back to what the Minister said earlier. The Minister said that, with the abolition of the merger test, we are not at all extending the possibility of mergers and economies of scale. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u119	The final judgments on mergers are not entirely in the hands of those who come up with the ideas of merging, namely the competent authority. It is ultimately the value community around the school, which is represented in the mr, who can give the all-encompassing judgment on this. If you do take the words of a test in your mouth, they will ultimately check whether the proposal that lies there is in the interest of the school, the community and everything that goes around it. They also take the judgment of B and W. That is, by the way, a view. They can include them, but that judgment has no legal status for the rest. For example, it is not decisive. They're aware of it. In the end, it's their judgment: we're gonna do it or we're not gonna do it. We have legally ensured that they have this important position in it. In the end, this is also a final test of proposals. They're either found to be too light, and then the thumb goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u120	I shall now turn to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u121	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u122	I can't turn off the microphone here, but I'm going to suspend the debate because that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u123	Mr Van Apeldoorn has the floor for a brief last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand what the Minister says, it's ultimately up to the mr. My point was: with this law, it is in fact the case that the possibilities for merger and thereby for scaling up are extended. The minister seemed to have distanced himself from that, which I didn't understand. In his own reply, he wrote: the proposal for the abolition of the merger test in fundamental education broadens the scope for scaling up. We don't have to debate that, do we? Those possibilities are being extended, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u125	Each merger is, of course, a scaling-up. So it's not like we're saying here that we should never merge again. Sometimes it's necessary. But what matters is that this happens in an orderly process, that judgements can be given on it in a balanced manner, and that those affected by it are parents, pupils, teachers and so on in a position that they can express themselves on it; even more importantly, that they can finally give the final judgment. That is what we have done in this law in a good way, and that will be the reality. But that doesn't mean that anything that wants to get bigger can get bigger. This is not the practice that has developed in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u126	I have, bearing in mind the Minister's opinion, just as quickly looked at the ruling of the Council of State of 2015. I am not surprised that your predecessor got wet there, because I would have done the same if I had been in the Council of State at the time. That was a merger between the Christian Primary Education Foundation Dongeradeel and the Association for Christian Primary Education, also in Dongeradeel, which was rejected because they would have 67% market share, but that one school had 64% market share before that. The fact that someone in the Ministry rejected that is not so convenient and that the Council of State is calling that back, I understand, when I read this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u127	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u128	So this is no justification for abolishing this now. My question to the Minister is specific: you are talking about seven mergers that have not been carried out. Well, like I said, I'm from this world. Often it is the very large mergers that do not go ahead. If Apple wants to merge with Microsoft tomorrow, it's probably not allowed in America. And rightly so, because then there will be a far too big power block. In the end, this is about preventing an enormous increase in scale. Of course, this is often an inherent motivation of the administrators of these institutions: they want to have ever larger and increasingly megalomaniac schools. I think we should avoid that very much. So of those seven that were rejected, how many were there with over 1,000 students? Does the Minister know that? How big were those schools? That is my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u129	Two things. First of all, when it comes to the judgment of the Council of State: of course there is a case for that, but in that case the law is being tested. The Council of State's ruling was that the mere fact that there is a market share of more than 50% does not sufficiently indicate a significant obstacle to freedom of choice. That was what it was all about in the end. At the time when this obstacle, to put it this way, also legally laid down, disappeared, this ultimately had an impact on the assessment of all the applications that followed, with all the consequences that had to do with the fact that there was never again a merger exceeding 50%. I don't have all the cases of those seven in my head. If that's what you want, I can come back to that later. One thing is clear: they are against the bar of the ruling made by the Council of State. That ruling could not have stopped those mergers, which has happened in the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u130	Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u131	And apart from that, we haven't had any situations in the years after that that have been submitted on the basis of the tests as the law gave it. That wasn't necessary anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u132	I would nevertheless like to touch on one point, which has already been mentioned by previous speakers: the fact that such a situation test exists prevents some megalomaniac mergers which we absolutely must not have, because they exceed human standards. So just the fact that this test is there will bring that kind of driver to think: let's not get started, because that's gonna be a lot of trouble. That's how it works in business. I have seen very much for merger proposals that were said: we are not getting started, because we are not achieving that in terms of competition. This has therefore a very preventive effect, as has already been mentioned by other speakers. My request to the Minister remains to fight the excesses with some kind of scrutiny, because the participation council, the involvement of many parents, is still very limited in practice. It's also very different from school to school. Weak schools will also have a weak participation council more often. This is therefore not a sufficient guarantee to prevent such practices. As far as our group is concerned, there has to be some form of merger review in one way or another, so that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u133	Mr. Otten, this sounds...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u134	Is the Minister there...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u135	I can't interrupt you, unfortunately. Mind if I make another point of order? The interruptions are meant for brief questions. For an exegesis, the second term is soon. I would ask that the interruptions be limited to brief and supplementary questions. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. You had five cubes. Which block are we in now, when I count the short introduction and the other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u136	These were the two largest. This was the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u137	This is block three?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u138	I'm on block three, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u139	Okay, so we'll make meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u140	Block four is very short and I have a lot of additional questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u141	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u142	Mr. Chairman. The image that governments only want bigger and bigger does not do justice to what has happened in education in recent years. I have seen that when one goes to mergers, whether or not sometimes to make smaller schools a subsidiary, that one-on-one really connects to the fact that by shrinking the numbers of pupils fell rapidly. But also because of the perspective over two, three or four years of governance, it is anticipated that one has seen a common concern with one another to ensure education in a particular region for the pupils. A lot of schools have been merged in the Achterhoek. I use the Achterhoek as a textbook example of how people acted in time in the context of shrinkage to ensure that schools could stay alive. That is really excellent work there. Those are drivers who have taken responsibility and know that governance is forward-looking. There are also regions where people have been acting far too late, where schools have fallen over or almost fell over. Zeeland-Vlaanderen was not an example of where people acted badly, but there had to be intervention at a late stage. The governments helped to do that, including the province. In the end, we managed to maintain schools in that region, so that the children could go to school in their own environment. I mentioned Groningen as an example. There have also been situations where mergers have been proposed that have not gone ahead. I experienced this in Limburg, where two schools had to merge within LVO. An institutional merger. Eventually, the mrs from both schools said, "We're not gonna do that." Okay, so it's off. In Brabant we have the very large school group OMO. That's one of the biggest in the Netherlands. They have their things in order, also with all the diversity between the schools involved. In the east of the country is also a large school group. It has also taken its responsibility by ensuring that schools, sometimes smaller schools, did not have to close their doors because of the drop in apprenticeships, or because of the shortage of staff and everything related to them. This cabinet has said: if there is anything we want to do, we want to keep small schools up. The previous cabinet proposed to delete the small school allowance. The opposition then intervened and that supplement remained. I have some personal memories about that, but it doesn't matter. This cabinet has provided additional funding for this, also as proof that we consider it important that small schools should be able to survive if only at all possible and that they have sufficient financial resources to enable us to do their work in the villages and communities where they are. So we are really working in all kinds of ways to support what is small and just strong enough to stand up, also financially. Sometimes it is necessary for small schools to be incorporated into a larger administration, but still with one's own identity. That's what you see happening in all these places, because that's what agreements are made about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u143	That is a nice list, but I do not think it is very relevant to the legislative proposal, because I do not think it is so much about these questions. The fact that it happens well in all kinds of places and that it is well thought out is fine. For the drop in students, the test is already relaxed, so I do not think that is very relevant for this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u144	I answer a question from Mr Otten. It seems very relevant to me that I should answer a question that has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u145	Mr. Otten. Yeah, that's entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u146	Yes, I'll have to respond to that with your permission, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u147	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u148	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u149	I don't really hear an answer to my question. I fully agree with the Minister that we should have the best of both worlds. If the schools in the Achterhoek or Dokkum have to merge because they are shrinking, then we have to. That's what I'm all for. I'd rather have one good school than no school in small communities. At the same time, however, there must be some possibility of intervening when very large schools are merging, because I do not think that they really need to double again. In Amsterdam and Rotterdam, for example, you have a number of very large organisations. If they double, they become too huge. Education is already quite large, especially secondary education. So let me ask you again: can the Minister choose a differentiated approach? I mean that in areas where it is shrinking, mergers are possible, but megalomaniac mergers can be dealt with. That's actually what I asked for in my first interruption. There has to be some sort of de minimis rule. If you're in the Achterhoek and you only have two schools in a village, it's obvious they're merging because they're shrinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u150	Customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u151	But we have to stop those excesses from happening. How are you going to do that? Because the co-determination council is simply not a sufficient guarantee for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u152	That's what we made this law for. We considered it important that we should do so in the way proposed in 2011. We now have nine years of experience with this law. Because we have come up with other legislation, think of the school of cooperation, and because of the way in which the highest judge has judged this law, we have seen that the effect that this law still had on what would still have to be judged at national level by a ruler has now dried up for five years. I also indicated that if we kept the situations in which we did, we would not have any left after 2015. We also know that the way we set that up cost €500,000 a year. I think Mrs Sent said that this money should be spent on education and such. For these reasons, we have finally made the choice not to maintain it in this way, but to ensure that the places where decisions are finally taken, the co-determination councils, which is perhaps a difference of opinion between you and me on how we look at the co-determination council, are further strengthened and ensure that they can also simply live up to that position. They have that position legally, by the way, since 2007. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the mr, Mrs. Adriaansens asked about the participation of people who may not be joining a mr. We are working hard on this, also in the context of all the effects on the new phase of support, which we have now entered. From the MR academy we have also developed possibilities for this: to help mr's to get the target group to join and to ensure that they participate. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to my fourth block. That is the question put by Mr Ganzevoort alone concerning the overlapping food sector, as it is called. The situation is that, at the moment, there simply cannot be an institutional merger without an exchange between two areas. This has to be a very limited 1% exchange, as the directive also states. We've held this against all the legal lights and you can't go to zero percent. That might have been the easiest solution, but it can't be. So we now have to legally ensure that it is possible to do so, and we have the Wadden Islands in mind that an institutional merger could take place. The situation is very urgent on Schiermonnikoog. There is a school for vo already under the lifting standard. That's okay for a little while, but not too long. If that goes on for another two years, then it's end of practice for this school. And we know that on Vlieland the next one is already coming. I think Mr Ganzevoort's question is a very clever question in itself. All the questions, of course, are very clever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u153	That's right, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u154	But this is a particular question. Actually, he doesn't want to stop this part. He's asking if it can't be arranged in any other way. This is the law governing mergers and how they should be done. So it is very legitimate that we do so here. If this law doesn't reach the finish line and I have to start again from the start, then you know what time we've lost. There is currently no legislation in place to take this with us. So we've lost at least two years. Yeah, that's how it works with legislation. This legislation has also been under consideration for some time. That could have considerable consequences, especially for this perhaps small example and this little school, but we would like to keep that school alive, not to mention the schools that are going to follow very quickly in the other Wadden Islands. That is why we have incorporated this into this law and why I sincerely hope, also in the interests of this school, that we can take that next step. I've been there myself, and I've even talked to the mr, who would be in a position to decide if this school is allowed to join in a merger. There was quite a bit of fear of cold water, but we were also able to arrange things well in the financial sense. We need this law to be able to take that next step. So we also need you, Mr. Ganzevoort, with your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u155	I understand that, but I don't like leverage arguments, where a small business is used to get something really big. I don't think that's entirely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u156	That's part of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u157	Sure, sure. It has been chosen to make that part of this law. Look, my question was this. According to the law, there is a ministerial arrangement that determines what the percentage should be. My question is whether you can change that ministerial arrangement. Then you can say that, given the treatment of the law in the past, there are certain limits to which you must adhere. I get that. We now have a lawsuit that's about that, too. As far as I am concerned, if you need a motion, we can ask you to amend that ministerial arrangement in order to do so. Then again you have your democratic legitimacy for that. If you say that is not possible, then my question is whether you can arrange it on another occasion. You say you need two years for that. That's when you have to do a whole new law from the start. But we have examples that it was indeed possible to regulate part of a law in a small bill. We are making urgent proposals to the assembly line; this should also be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u158	This is the law in which we must and can regulate it, and that is what we have proposed. An even smaller percentage is not possible, because it is already minimal. Only, there has to be an exchange. We know that there are students from the island going to shore, but the other way around, it doesn't happen when it comes to education. That is a problem and we are trying to solve it now. That's why I'm introducing this to the Chamber. I'm not gonna make it bigger than it is, but I'm not gonna make it smaller either, because it's a real problem. That has quite an impact for the people on such an island, who very much want the children, especially at a young age, to go to school nearby for a few years and even eat at home in the afternoon, I have seen. This can be done on the islands and on the mainland most of the time it does not; it is done there in the Vo. We're running a big risk that this school can't go on anymore, and I'd hate to see that. That's why I've incorporated that into this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u159	I think we agree on the problem. I understand that the Minister says: vote in favour of that law. People might do that, but maybe they won't. My question is whether the Minister, if he does not, and if it turns out that this law does not work out, is prepared to solve that problem anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u160	I do not think it is convenient to anticipate votes. There's a law in front of it. I am very motivated and very convinced of that, even when it comes to this part. It is, of course, something that should be part of a broader consideration, including among the political groups. You're the only one who asked for it. I hope that other groups will also realise that this is an important part of the law, even if it is only a limited group of students, but in a place where we would very much like to teach them. That's why I suggested it. Mr. Chairman. I shall then turn to a number of other questions. First of all, the question about the scale: large, small, when is something good, when isn't it? I haven't heard anyone say big by definition is wrong and small good. It doesn't work that way, not even in education. We do know that it is very important to ensure, especially when the scale is larger, that the small scale in the big picture is guaranteed. This is a task for which school leaders have a great responsibility. In practice, we see that it goes well in many places, but that there are some tensions in some places. The inspection has, also because there have sometimes been situations that we did not like so much, been given a greater responsibility to be extra alert, especially in the case of larger administrations, and not only when it comes to monitoring. For a year or two the new supervision also starts with the directors, to know if they have sufficient knowledge of all schools under their responsibility. But also when it comes to picking up signals that it might not go well in some places. That is what we have invested in. It is also good to continue to investigate the desired scale. I did give Chamber judgment when GroenLinks said it would be good if there was a new investigation. There are all kinds of research, but there may be new insights as well. That investigation hasn't been fully completed. It consists of two parts: literature study and a test in practice. I do know that the literature study shows about the same picture; that it is all quite nuanced and that it does not point in one direction. That's, as I just put it, that big by definition wouldn't be good, would be a moloch, and that little one would be nice. In short, it often stands or falls with the way in which in practice it is organized. We hope that the study can be finalised in a few weeks' time. You didn't ask, but I'll see to it that you get it. Mr. Chairman. Then the position of parents in the mr. They're taking an important place in that. We also see that parents and education, including from the national organisation, are further supported. A variety of ways are being tried to enable them to carry out their important work, for which they also make time available. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question about the pseudofusions. It is indeed important to be on the alert with each other. It is not easy, I say openly, to always get the finger on everything. It really depends on how one... Because then it's about making appointments with other boards. It is precisely at this time that we see that this is happening more, not only because we want to avoid a merger, but also because we have further strengthened joint responsibility for education in a particular region. We also believe that this is a joint responsibility. It can't be that schools lock themselves in their own school, with their backs to the other, because they have so much fun and so much fun. It can't be that when a neighboring school is in some kind of trouble, people think: well, let them fall over, then maybe we can get those students to come to us. We're really past that time. We want cooperation, including across denominational boundaries. We respect them, but that's no reason to just sit on yourself. In other words, we are strengthening cooperation in all kinds of ways. This sometimes also means that agreements are made with each other in the context of the shortage of teachers. Of course, it's important to involve the mr. It's not always agreements that, so to speak, should be formally sealed by a mr. If that is the case, it will, of course, be obvious and one will have to give one's opinion on it. That's the situation we're dealing with. I am convinced that school boards, because they have to take their proposals to the mr, are sufficiently disciplined to do it in a transparent manner. That, of course, is what we can ask of them. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Bikker's question about Mr Dijkgraaf and his proposals. We're working on it now. We hope to come up with proposals this calendar year. So that's what we're doing. Those were therefore proposals in the context of the shrinkage. This also includes working together and trying to ensure that there is sufficient supply in the area where the homes are located, where the children live and the parents who send their children to schools. Then one can also continue to live there and there is not yet in several ways a huge gap in such an area. Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Sent has rightly drawn attention to the fact that the directors should not be separated from the basics, those teachers, those who in practice teach in schools and have the connection with the pupils and the parents. That is why we believe it is important to strengthen the representatives of that base further in the position they are already in and to ensure that a driver cannot escape it. In fact, that is not possible either, because he also needs the approval of these people. That's one way to do it. The second is that, through all kinds of other proposals and topics, we are also trying to further increase this involvement. The best example is how we distributed the money for reducing the workload, although I did get a hit on my fingers from the General Court. The teachers have been put in a position to come up with the proposals. There's no way the driver can beat that. I know that a lot of drivers do not want to get past it either, because they too realise that they have to do their job together, from different responsibilities and different positions, in the interests of children. In that sense, therefore, we are taking out a layer that no longer worked in practice, of the merger test at national level. Read: The Minister. But we're strengthening that base. That only makes the importance of the base and the people in position even greater, I think. Mrs. Sent also asked what experiments I would like. I could throw up an hour's worth of exhibits. I'll try to be brief. I find the 10-14 schools very interesting myself. That is what we started this cabinet period, but I think the previous cabinet has already started a bit, so the Labour Party is a bit the owner of that. I find this connection between primary and secondary education really interesting. That is very interesting to be working on and it is also important. The flexibility of teaching time is, of course, also an interesting point, which is also of great importance in education. I am referring to the idea of giving this a little more flexibility instead of giving it a kind of mold that everyone has to fit in with. Think of bilingual education as well. In short, there are a few to mention. I do notice that experiments in that sense are sometimes difficult. The moment one enters an experiment, one knows what the rules of the game are. We know that once an experiment is over, the generic must be made accessible to everyone. At the moment when we are hesitant about this because we see that it has affected the quality of education in some schools involved in this experiment, we see that it has already been called upon to do so and that we should continue to do so.If you have followed the debates in the House of Representatives a little bit, you have noticed that I have been in such a debate a few times and that the Chamber has its views on this too. The Education Council has indeed given opinions. Those are advices you need to see in the light of the time in which they were given. We also saw the great importance the Education Council attaches to the position of parents and pupils. As I have just said, we would like to strengthen it. Then I'll take a look at the final questions, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Adriaansens asked a question about not only the scale but also the output, as she called it in the jargon we use for that purpose. When it comes to research, this is also the intention: that we also look at professionalisation, accountability and quality of education. So that is not just the scale, but it is very specific things that are covered by the word you use for that purpose. So that's used for that, too. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions that came with my last set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u161	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I repeat to Members that in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself and then put it on the table on your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. Firstly, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u162	Thank you again, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the clear answers. We have seen a minister who thinks in this discussion from the field and operates at the level of the people in our schools. That's good. That's good. It is also more than clear to us after the Minister's speech that this picture has been confirmed once again that mergers, particularly in shrinking areas, can certainly be useful and necessary. We saw in the debate, actually from all sides, a sometimes very business-like representation of education and a lot of management language. Of course you can. The whole thing needs to be managed properly and efficiently, mergers and all. But, of course, we must not ignore the social reality of our education. That's where we think the downside is. Envoy Van Kesteren already sketched it. In neighborhoods or even cities with an Islamic majority, the danger of taking over and merging and a monoculture is lurking. I do not call Islamisation because we cannot have Islamic education; let that be very clear. We would not consider areas with a monoculture of montessori education or Catholic or Buddhist education to be very desirable either, but the Randstadial reality in 2020 does not indicate that. It is equally a fact that sometimes there are some questionable edges to Orthodox Islamist education in particular. Mr. Chairman. Then we run into a problem if we take away the national merger review. It doesn't help any more when mr and local school boards agree to mergers to ensure the right of existence or to increase the scale of certain schools. The Minister himself has experienced, for example, with the very controversial Haga Lyceum in our capital, how appalling it is to see problems and how many children can get into trouble but cannot intervene. Let that dog, who made his metaphorical entrance into this debate, take a nap in his loft, but he must be able to bite when needed. What we have not heard as a Forum for Democracy Group, and what has not become clear to us after the Minister's contribution and in interruptions, is the result of the deletion of this test. We really do not like unnecessary government interference, of course, I say in the direction of the VVD, but we have here a system in which the State largely facilitates and finances our education, and that education is not neutral, according to the French laicism model, but that is very multiform education. And that's good. But why take away a fortunately rarely used veto option? That doesn't make any sense. On the basis of the judgements of the Council of State, should it be possible to leave a right of veto with the Minister in a lawful manner? You don't have to keep a very dumb institution open to judge that, as the Minister outlined, but it must be possible for a team to be set up on an ad hoc basis? It's 2020. We need flexible and agile governance, but not unnecessary change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u163	I would like to ask whether the Forum for Democracy is also for Islamic education or whether they consider Islamic education to be a serious threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u164	That's a good question. Look, listen to me. We have the Education Act here. We don't make a distinction in that. As a party, we have our ideas about Islam. We have reservations about this, but we do not think that you should make a distinction in terms of: one faith is, the other faith is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u165	Then I would like to ask the Forum for Democracy if they see Islam as a religion or an ideology.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u166	That's gonna be a whole theological discussion. It is approached here as a religion. As with any religion, you can also find it in Catholicism or in the reformed faith. You can be very politically-ideologically in it. We also know a political Islam and we find it as problematic as the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u167	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Sent on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his passionate answer to our questions. It shows that he has a heart that's right for our education. The image the minister sketches is somewhat in contrast to that in the novel Men van Maasoord, written by Lein van der Wolp, who has been working in education since 1976. In this novel, he reveals the constant desire for innovation in education and its impact on the position of people who have to do the work. Their position has been eroded ever further. I can highly recommend this novel, also in the light of my contribution in the first term, in which I have indicated how many changes are constantly being made in the field of education. Fundamental choices must be made to make good education accessible to all. That means investing much more, investing unevenly, delaying the selection moment, banning perverse incentives and so on. There is another fundamental choice before us, namely to reduce barriers to the formation of large schools. The abolition of the merger test in fundamental education has advantages and disadvantages. It gives school management more scope to seek out local cooperation and to realise a future-proof educational offer in the region. On the other hand, the elimination of the merger test has a scale increase without added value in terms of content for education as a risk, with the additional risk that drivers become more and more managers. Lein van de Wilp writes in the Men of Maasoord about roaring LinkedIn profiles and a desire for CEO status, but fortunately that is a novel. Prof. The Fox warns of a growing distance between the board and the classroom. The Education Council stresses the importance of a merger test as a guarantee against undesirable restriction of choice. According to the General Education Association, the present bill releases the guarantee of the human dimension. Herman Tjeenk Willink warns about the growing gap between the responsible minister and the professional in the workplace. Drivers and politicians have become heavily dependent on this intermediate layer and it is precisely for this reason that the merger test must ensure the human dimension. For my group, therefore, the legislative proposal before us is not sufficiently substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u169	I was actually hoping to be able to ask my question just before that conclusion, because perhaps that had just given me another insight, but who knows if it will succeed. I still don't get it. Mrs Sent quotes with fire Herman Tjeenk Willink, in the sense that the intermediate layer should not increase, but then she votes in favour of maintaining an intermediate layer, namely the fusion test in which people judge the ministry, instead of the mr and instead of the people in the local community itself. Isn't that a choice for the intermediate layer instead of against?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u170	I am in favour of the good parts, namely the fusion impact assessment and the involvement of the or. That was already part of the introduction of the Merger Test Act. I am in favour of that. I am against removing the emergency brake that we have discussed at length in the debate. As far as I am concerned, this emergency brake is necessary to ensure that there is an optimal size of a school board. That optimal size has not yet been demonstrated. There is still further research to be done on this. Only when the results become known will I be able to have an informed opinion on the proposal before us, to vote confidently for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u171	But with that, Mrs Sent actually says: I need a brake that doesn't work. That's how I'm gonna drive, and I'm gonna keep the interlayer bureaucracy going. I'm missing the logic of sitting in a car whose brake doesn't work. There are other brakes. Let's just use it when we need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u172	What has already been discussed in detail in the debate is that it is not wrong at all to have an emergency brake if you rarely use it and that the fact that there is an emergency brake already has an effect on the care with which fusion tests are carried out. All kinds of metaphors have come along, including fences and dogs, and in this case I find the emergency brake referred to by Mr Ganzevoort a very nice one. Mr. Chairman. For my group, therefore, the legislative proposal before us is not sufficiently substantiated. We are very looking forward to the implementation of the Dutch Parliamental Motion to map the advantages and disadvantages of the different administrative sizes. To this end, we cannot make a positive assessment of the legislative proposal before us. My group is not against mergers in fundamental education, but rather for the exercise of extreme care in relation to mergers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn, on behalf of the SP Group, after cleaning up the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u174	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for his reply. As I predicted, he has defended the bill with fresh and passion. Thank you for that. But that does not mean that the Minister has convinced me or that he has answered all my questions. What problem are we going to solve with this bill and abolishing the merger test? I have heard a lot about shrinking regions, but I have not really understood why it is necessary to abolish the merger test. I asked the Minister what exactly school boards are running into and whether merger is always the only option. I also pointed out, in the case of planned mergers in shrinking areas, that it was already decided in 2014 to amend the implementation of the law. There was then an exception for schools in shrinking regions. In this case, a light, only procedural test was sufficient. My question to the Minister is why it has not provided sufficient relief. Then why is it still necessary to abolish this merger test altogether? I also asked the Minister about the position of the co-determination council. Maybe he's already said something about it, but then I'd like to hear it again, because I didn't quite get it. We have talked a lot about the position of the co-determination council and that it needs to be put into a pole position. The SP Group is all for that. Much has been said about what is living in the field and there are many concerns in the field about the so-called pseudofusions, which are out of control and which, according to many in the field, may be undesirable. I also asked a question about the position of the co-determination council within those pseudo-fusions. Perhaps the Minister could elaborate on this. In the end, for me, the most important question remains why the Minister chooses to abolish the merger test instead of adjusting it. In his reply, I have already responded to it in an interruption, but I would like to continue with this point. The Minister always points to the figures of the number of merger proposals that were finally rejected, namely 7 out of 219. This has been changed before. Well, we don't have to talk about facts. The facts are the facts. Of course, we are also for fact-based politicians and not for fact-free politicians. But the interpretation of the facts does matter. The analysis you make on the basis of the facts does matter, as does the conclusions you draw from it. In other words, what can we derive from this? Finally, I have to say that the conclusion that the merger test can therefore be abolished as far as my group is concerned is lacking any logic. I have not heard a convincing story about this from the Minister either. The emergency brake has been mentioned and the preventive effect has been pointed out. It has also been pointed out that sometimes the execution of the test could have been different and better. But none of these are grounds for abolishing that merger test. So my main question to the Minister remains unanswered: why abolish and not adapt? For example, you could adapt it to take even more account of declining apprenticeship numbers or to take more account of shrinking regions in particular, or to make unwanted scaling more manageable than the previous policy rules. In this context, I also referred to the previous motion from the House of Representatives and to the opinion of the CFTO. So why do you choose to be empty-handed at national level? Why do you say that if the scale increase was to come out of the claws again: we don't have that emergency brake anymore, too bad? My group does not understand that. The Minister himself says that this law does indeed extend the scope for scaling up the scale. The argument against scaling up remains that, even if it can have advantages, which has also been pointed out several times, the distance between the workplace and the administration is increased. And then we won't have that emergency brake to put on anymore. I will therefore advise my group to vote against this bill next week; the Minister will have already understood that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u175	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Adriaansens on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for explaining and answering the questions. I would like to use this second deadline to raise a few more issues. When I walked here, Mr. Otten said, "Why don't you explain why you're in favour?" Then I thought, maybe that's the question we're talking about all afternoon. We have many views on how to ensure that good education is delivered in the right measure. I don't know if we're gonna make it all the way out of that. We have talked a great deal about the disadvantages of merger, especially the disadvantages of large school communities. As the Minister pointed out, we also need to look at the benefits. A merger can also prevent schools from becoming too small and falling down, which eliminates diversity and gives parents nothing to choose from. We tend to look very much at one side, but we also have to look at the other. That risk is real in the event of shrinkage. Mergers aren't just bad. I would almost say it again: mergers are not just bad. Sometimes they can also be necessary. My group also believes that we should take a nuanced look at the possible disadvantages of over-sized schools. If we're not careful, there are. We need to see that too. Where's the risk? Maybe we should zoom in on what we're talking about. In primary education, for example, small scale is at issue at the moment. About 40% of primary school administration is made up of one director who is responsible for one school. On average, such a school in primary education counts about 223 pupils. I'm sure you're all familiar with that. So the question is what exactly are we talking about when we talk about the risks? Then, of course, we are debating this whole afternoon. That's like there's a relationship between the scale and the quality. The question is whether we are going to answer that question. We are talking about the human measure that we consider so important. Research carried out by the Education Inspectorate shows that school communities with two to seven schools do not always offer the right quality. I am not going to go into that any further, because you have to look at that in a nuanced way. In any case, we must be very careful to draw conclusions from supposed relationships between size and quality. The opposite is true. A small school is not always a guarantee of good quality. A big one doesn't, but a small one doesn't either. Research also does not show that there is a relationship between the size of the school and its quality. Nevertheless, we are going to investigate this every time, as I indicated in my first term. Reference was made to Schoonhoven's research, which indicates that scale in itself does not provide sufficient basis for conclusions and that we need to look for more reference points. What I would find very interesting in that: we are talking very much about the size, but perhaps it is more interesting to look at the front of the process. What are the incentives to scale up? As Mrs Sent said: at the moment when the CEO status, or such an alleged status, is very present in the motivation, we naturally have to deal with a wrong motivation. So I'd be interested to know what that motivation is. If, for example, this is creating more diversity or more efficiency, it is certainly good to think about whether a merger can be a form for that. A third point I would like to make is that the current situation, in which we are dealing with a slight merger test, gives some form of false certainty. So what are we all holding on to so cramped? We can also give local parties the confidence that they will do their job well. And my group believes that there are sufficient safeguards in this legislative proposal to fulfil that confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u177	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. I call Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u178	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon, in this Chamber, we advocated the connection, the exclusivity, the preservation of the identity of the various affiliated schools, the diversity, the pluralism of educational provision, the human dimension, and so on. In order to ensure this, responsibility is placed on the school board and the participation bodies. The Minister says that the competent authority remains responsible, but that the mr is brought into pole position and in fact ultimately decides. In addition, there is a stick behind the door in the form of a Disputes Commission, which agrees with either the competent authority or the mr. The latter seems to me to be cumbersome and bureaucratic. The minister says very explicitly that if the mr doesn't agree, the merger won't happen. The mr is, in fact and in practice, the largest common denominator of parents, staff and students. They are supposed to transcend their individual and personal interests. But in practice that turns out to be different. That's why the fusion test, or... the Minister's opinion, offer some relief. In order to avoid an undesirable development, at the expense of that connection, exclusivity, identity, diversity, uniformity and human dimension, that is a very good means. The competent authority, or a mr, may have that discipline, as the minister said, but that is not a guarantee at all. The Minister can offer this guarantee because it is objective and independent in enforcing the law. It is not for nothing that a lot is judged by the law at government level. It is not for nothing that the Constitution is even reviewed at government level and that the Council of State is often asked for an opinion. A mr or competent authority dominated by a bad ideology can carry on an undesirable development. A national fusion test can set clear limits to guarantee pluralism, diversity and human dimension. I'd like to ask the Minister if he agrees with the PVV. If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u179	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear statement. D66 considers that cooperation and mergers at a time of shrinking are necessary to maintain small-scale education at locations. The Wadden Islands were rightly referred to, but it also applies to many other places. D66, however, is subject to one condition, namely that it must be wanted locally. That is well regulated in this proposal. Small-scale education remains possible if the participation council, the teachers, the school staff and the parents of the school agree. The Minister has answered our questions. You will not be surprised that I will advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u181	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Mrs Bikker, on behalf of the Christian Union Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u182	Mr President, thank you for your generosity for that extra minute. The national merger test had good intentions and was instituted after abuses in particular the MBO and the HBO. But what it produced for the foundational education, the bulk of merger applications, actually means hardly any result. This was demonstrated by evaluation and the field study. It is clear that the fusion impact assessment and the consenting power for the mr do work. The Christian Union strongly opts for strengthening what does work and stopping unnecessary bureaucracy. Take care of nearby education, now the shrinking commitment in the student numbers. It is precisely this fusion test that is a brake and not a strengthening factor. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear explanation of these points. In addition, however, as I pointed out in the first term, it is always important that this human dimension and a strong local community, a strong school community that is recognizable, cannot be enforced only by law and regulation. It also comes to culture, to governance, to directors who show courage in it. The same goes for the MBO and the HBO. We're not talking about that now, but they were the reason for the bill in 2011. I would like to ask the Minister if he can reflect on that level of culture. That is even less highlighted in the answer. My group would appreciate that. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to take up the recommendations of the Dijkgraaf Committee which are looking at the shrinkage this year. I assume that this also applies to the legal guarantee of the social responsibility of school administrators. It shows how school administrators relate to their region. I think that is important in solving the problems that exist. As far as I am concerned, the last question that has not yet been answered is how he looks at various holdings, cooperatives and other forms of foundation that have arisen outside the merger test. That is a new aspect and I would like us to keep our finger on the pulse and get a look at the facts. The minister has made it clear how he can get the mr in a stronger position, even with an MR academy. I would also like to thank him for his commitment on this point. We are curious about the review in three years' time, but we really assume that the Minister is committed to strengthening those communities, to ensuring schools that can stay up, including in areas of shrinkage, and that we can say here that we have made the bureaucracy less and given it to the people who really are at the base, because they know what is good for their school and what is good for their students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u183	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Finally, Mr Ganzevoort has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u184	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the answers and thanks to colleagues for the fine debate, for the different images used and for the emergency brake that has been mentioned several times. Honor to whom credit is due: Mrs Nanninga was the first to talk about this and not me. It is good to realise that we share a number of things here, namely concern for the human dimension. It is important for the education that we keep it in. I haven't heard anyone who's always against mergers either. We realize that sometimes it is necessary to maintain education, even in its small scale. It is a good thing that participation is strengthened as well. You can wake us up for that day and night, I'll tell the Minister. Preferably during the day, but it's also allowed at night if it's necessary. Participation is a good thing and it can only be done better. The concern is on a number of points, namely, as I mentioned it, the administration, a distance between the board and the classroom. That is where the question arises, in particular, whether you do not need that emergency brake every now and then. In any case, we see the importance of the possibility of intervention. It is fine that the procedure needs to be improved. Get on it. It is excellent that the speed of decision-making can be improved. Do that. Of course, sharply align the review frameworks. In other words, there is enough work to be done, but we do not see the importance of abolishing the merger test. We also consider it important that forms of differentiation have already emerged in recent years, by taking a slight test of the decline in the number of pupils in shrinking areas. That's not a problem either. In other words, the system can be improved, sharpened and refined in all kinds of ways. Let's keep doing that. There's one more sophistication I've asked the Minister for. I believe that we share the problem assessment, but not yet the solution. This concerns the situation of the Wadden Islands. The Wadden Islands are, in a sense, an example, but a very concrete example. That's where the water lies, so we're gonna have to deal with that. That's why I'm going to help the Minister with the next motion. The President shall: Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Sent and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to propose to the Chamber, by separate legislative proposal, as soon as possible, the amendment of Article 72 of the WFO on the overlap for the Wadden Islands as soon as possible, and if necessary as an urgent proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35104-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u185	When the bill is passed, this motion is not necessary. Then this motion will lapse. If the bill is not adopted, at least this will solve the Minister's problem. So I'm counting on a judgment room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u186	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. "Wake up during the day" implies sleep during the day. That is an implicit confession, but it is not clear whether that applies to the whole group. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is what Mr Otten wishes. You may be able to make another interruption. Please stand there, because you have no time limit, so you have no time limit. You can still make a brief interruption to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u187	At GO we always have an open mind. We also went here today open-mindedly and did not ask for any speaking time at first. As the debate unfolds, we have come forward. The more I've heard today, the more reservations I've had about this bill. The problem is that this bill does not allow for differentiation. Indeed, we need mergers in crip regions. There has already been a reminder of the Wadden Islands, the Achterhoek and so on, where these mergers are very much needed to maintain education. We must prevent the creation of megalomaniac educational organisations. I've been doing a lot of campaigns myself for the past year. I have been approached very often by people from the Rotterdam region about BOOR, a very large educational institute for primary education. Education at the Amstel from Amsterdam is also such a large institution. Such organisations should certainly not merge with each other. The scale is really getting way too big. So there has to be a differentiation. A "one size fits all" approach, which is what this bill is, is not the right approach. Maybe that came from a different time frame. Our group is asking the Minister to find a solution to this, otherwise it will be very difficult for us to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u188	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u189	I would like to thank the Chamber for its second term. A question had been left by Mr Otten, who was the last speaker. That question related to those seven pre-2015 situations. I took a look at that. Two of them were related to that market share, i.e. that percentage, one of 70% and one of 53%. The other five had to do with the continuity criterion of the co-operation board, which I indicated that the law at the co-operation school eliminated the problems that were there and that led to mergers that eventually fell on the board of the executive. So two had to do with the size and the other five with the cooperation school. Mr. Chairman. So let me answer Mr Otten's other question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u190	That wasn't my question. My question was: how large were these organizations in terms of students and so on? I didn't ask about market shares. But you can, as we have seen, have a 67% market share in Dokkum with one school. It's about how big those schools were. Were those schools of 100 or 150 students or thousands? What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u191	I don't know that in numbers. I will look into that; perhaps that can come to me in this period. Otherwise, I will make sure that you receive it in writing from me before the vote is taken. As I have just answered Mr Otten's questions, I will take his contribution to the interrupting microphone. Mr Otten has concerns about the possibility of very large mergers. In itself, I understand that concern. However, looking back on the past few years, we have not had these situations in this way. Look, we're going to evaluate this law very soon. At the time of the adoption of this law, we have already agreed that I have discussed this with the House of Representatives in such a way that within three years we want to try to have the evaluation ready to closely monitor in the coming period the extent of the mergers that are to take place. We can also request the fusion impact assessments to be drawn up. Especially if they are above a certain scale, it is also important to keep an eye on that and also to take part in the final evaluation of the law that we will then apply. This means that I am broadening the evaluation in this respect and that I am also going to look very strongly at the size and the human dimension. I would like to take it explicitly. That is a commitment I would like to make to you, to keep the finger on the wrist properly. At a time when this law does not get a majority, we are returning to the situation we now have and it is also more difficult to keep our finger on the pulse in this way towards the future, let alone I shall come back to Mr Van Apeldoorn in a moment to say that there are also a number of other elements in this law which, in our opinion, have real added value in relation to the situation as it is now in practice because of current legislation. But we're certainly willing to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u192	I would like to draw the Minister's attention once again to the preventive effect of the legislative proposal as we had and its importance. The question I have for him is next. What if an evaluation shows that a merger has taken place that is undesirable, what instruments does the Minister have to defuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u193	I have just stated in my reply what the possibilities for defusion are when that decision can be taken at the level of the schools and those involved in those schools. So there are indeed opportunities to get out of a school. This can be done on a proposal from the competent authority itself. Of course, the approval of the co-determination council must be given to this. It can also be done on the basis of the new law, on the initiative of society itself. Then we will no longer be bound by the rules that we still have in accordance with the old legislation, in which we discussed with each other in detail in the previous debate. It would then be possible, on the basis of the new legislation and the opportunities it offers for initiatives from society that could be the continuation of the school if there was sufficient basis for this, to acquire a position of one's own. As you know, this is not yet possible under the old legislation, because then one looks at direction, numbers and so on and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u194	But do I understand that these possibilities lie at a decentralised level and that there is no possibility for the Minister to draw lessons from the evaluation from mergers that were undesirable on closer examination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u195	At the moment when there is an evaluation, which comes very soon to this law, it is, of course, very logical that the person receiving that evaluation should also learn lessons from it if those lessons are to be learned. It could be an understatement of a good choice. It could also be that there are things that we say we did not intend to do in this way, but that is what this legislation has done. We must then come up with new legislation, and we are going to amend it. Then you do have the ability to be stricter if you want to. It might also be that you might think you can be even more flexible, even if I can... Well, we just don't know that. We should not anticipate evaluations that are not yet available. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether the lighter test from 2014 would not provide sufficient relief. We saw very quickly that there was a somewhat confusing situation in that regard. In fact, there were a number of exceptions to the rule that did not help to clarify what could and could not be done. It turned out to be a rather complicated knitting from exception to exception. We have chosen to be more clear about this in the way we have proposed in the legislative proposal, also on the basis of how practice has developed in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u196	I actually had a question on the previous point in replying to Mr Sent's questions. Mrs Sent asked: can lessons be learned from it? The Minister says: yes, lessons can be learned. Yes, of course, the Minister can always learn lessons. But in my view the question was asked: is it also possible that if this bill is adopted, there will be mergers which we later say were very undesirable? At that time, the Minister will have no instrument in his hands to do anything about it. He can only learn lessons. He just said himself: then we might be able to propose a new law again. So we would abolish the merger test first. The evaluation then shows that a number of things have not been done properly. At that point the Minister cannot reverse those mergers, but he can say: on second thought, the abolition of the merger test was not a good idea, so we are now coming up with a new legislative proposal. That's what it comes down to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u197	Mrs. Sent asked what you're doing on the basis of an evaluation. If there are things in there that are not positive, of course, but that is theoretical, because we do not know that, and we even have to get to work, then it often works that an evaluation can give rise to adjustments, especially when you see that the legislation in practice creates situations that may have been legitimate from the legal point of view, but which you say on the basis of the evaluation: we would have liked that to be different. Then you must act. You have to act when it comes to legislation. When it comes to defusions, there are also practical possibilities. I just turned two in. One possibility runs through the administrative route, where the mr has another position. The other option concerns the initiatives that are possible on the basis of the new legislation. What we are doing now is, of course, to give substance to what we believe will be the consequences of the law as it is here. That is, of course, premature. We have said that we want to evaluate quickly, because we also consider it important to take additional measures, if necessary, on the basis of evaluations. As far as Mr Otten's question is concerned, I have the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u198	If you will allow it, Mr Van Apeldoorn will ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u199	The Minister himself is empty-handed, of which he is aware. I think we can agree on that if the merger test is abolished. Let me now turn to the issue of the shrinking regions, because the Minister began by answering my question on this subject. I hear him now saying that it was unclear. I am not sure what exactly was unclear. For schools in shrinking regions, an adjustment of the implementation of the merger test has been introduced in the sense that a lighter procedural test has been taken. Does the Minister say that it was still a bureaucratic monster or that it has still stopped schools in shrinking regions? It's just not clear to me. And if that were to be the case, would there be no possible adjustments other than the complete abolition of the merger test?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u200	We went back to the situation in 2014, when an adjustment took place. It also resulted in exceptions to this heavier test; exceptions to exceptions were again made. That has not really increased the clarity of the situation at the time. With what we're doing now, I think we're making the choices a little clearer. That does not mean that a minister is empty-handed. We very consciously choose to make sure that the considerations that need to be made take place locally, with the mr in a very important position. This is also in line with your other question. You said that you were not actually getting an answer to the question as to why we are doing this. Of course, you might also want to hear an answer that is different from what is in the law; I suspect that it is a bit similar to that. I will briefly outline the situation. We've had a merger test in the law that hasn't turned down any merger since 2015. Those are the facts. Why is that? There are two very important reasons: the ruling of the Council of State, but also, among the seven examples, that even the vast number of cooperative schools are the law. This has lost an important basis for rejecting mergers. As far as we are concerned, the abolition of the merger test is not intended to promote economies of scale. We want to create that space very clearly for that local cooperation and also for making those local considerations. Then it is also important to put schools and administrations with the surroundings of the school, Mrs Bikker, once again asking for attention to that value community, where parents, teachers and pupils belong, in such a position that they can take responsibility together. What's the target? The aim is to maintain the educational supply in the country. It is no longer the case that we can specifically say that there is a shrinkage region there or there. Even in the big cities, we are dealing with shrinkage of pupils and with schools that have fallen below the lifting standard. It's not big-city country anymore, like it might have been in the beginning. Nor do we intend to re-introduce a reinforced merger test in the law, because it could be counterproductive, also for local considerations and for maintaining education in those areas. In the local decision-making process is the human dimension and we want to offer it space, in order to be able to weigh and make choices in a good way. Mr Van Kesteren has asked another question about this human measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u201	The Minister said in reply to my earlier question about this exception for schools in shrinking regions that it created uncertainty; except for exception, therefore, clarity and clarity. Now we are making a clear choice, and that is the abolition of the merger test. I agree with the Minister that that is a very clear choice, when you say that there are some uncertainties and uncertainties; let us create clarity, we simply abolish it altogether. That is indeed a clear choice, but it is a wrong choice as far as my group is concerned. I would like to stress once again that, according to the Minister himself, this also leads to an increase in the possibility of economies of scale. That is what the Minister himself writes in his response. Then the question remains whether it is wise to give up the only instrument you have at national level to control that scale increase. Apparently, the Minister says yes. That is a clear choice, but that is a choice that can then have those consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u202	I didn't miss the fact that you're in a different position and that's your right, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u203	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u204	We have given room for amendment in the Lower House, thinking along with the SP. We have given plenty of room for this, because we also understand that a number of amendments to the legislative proposal, and this is how it should be done in the debate, will allow further improvements to be made. One amendment was not possible because it affected the legal powers that a competent authority has. Everyone else needs space. You have seen this, because they are also integrated into the law as it has been submitted to you. But at the end of the day, of course, you will have to consider it. Perhaps I can answer Mr Otten's question. The smallest were 3,900 pupils and the largest were not 34,000. That was the whole spectrum. At the biggest, it was to save a bankrupt administration. Otherwise, that would have really become a problem. In this way it has been tried to allow pupils who belonged to these schools to attend their schools in an orderly manner, only under the flag of another government. Those were the numbers that were included.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u205	That's very enlightening. 34,000 students, that scares the hell out of me. I didn't even know there were schools in primary school with so many students. Well, that would indicate that the scaling-up has gone too far. The Minister was just talking about a commitment to an evaluation. That gave me the idea of having a café in a student town and saying: I'll send all the staff away, I'll turn off the cameras, I'll open the doors and the glasses on the bar and you'll find out the next day that all your beer has been drank. And then you say, "We're going to evaluate that, we should have done that differently." Of course, that's not a solution. The motivations of people in governing these kinds of large organizations are just to get bigger, because then they get a bowl higher and then they get some more emoluments. These are often very basic things that drive mergers. That is why you should not give up the emergency brake for this type of large-scale mergers. You have to differentiate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u206	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u207	Can the Minister make a better commitment than that evaluation proposal? Our group can't get away with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u208	I think it is a good picture, which I am aware of, but it does not do justice to the situation in recent years with regard to how the merger test has functioned. From the moment the statements of the Council of State and the legislation on the school of cooperation came, no situation has been presented. That means it was a dead letter in the law for five years, in the sense that it was no longer used. The fear that the situation from the moment this bill becomes law will suddenly be completely changed, because we are now fully investing it in the law at the level of the participation councils and the position they have is unjustified. On the contrary, it is important, even in all those situations where we are dealing with shrinkage and with schools falling down, that we offer school boards the opportunity to be a helping hand for each other, to ensure that home and neighbourhood education is also guaranteed. Mr. Chairman. According to Mr Van Apeldoorn, a question was unanswered, but I gave a comprehensive answer to it. I realize I saw you walking through the room when I was talking, but that was the time to answer those pseudo-fusions. I have indicated that it may be quite different with regard to the collaborations that school boards engage in. At the moment, we have a lot to do with the following, namely that drivers together know responsibility for the provision of education in the region. They must no longer lock themselves in their own schools, but they must also assume their joint responsibility. This sometimes results in agreements being made, for example on staffing. This is also very important in the context of the staff shortage. When we take far-reaching steps in the framework of cooperation, we will indeed have to go to the mr. If it fits within the category we have just discussed, if it even goes in the direction of a merger, then we know that a mr also has the right to consent and will have to judge it. Mrs Bikker asked about the administrative structures that arise outside the law. We've done an investigation into that by now. That is already ready and is in any case with the House of Representatives, since 1 April, so that is only a short time ago. We see that the number of staff unions has increased slightly compared to 2016. The number of holding companies has remained roughly the same. For federations and cooperatives it is very difficult to make a comparison with 2016, but as we now assess it, it is not really necessary to adapt the legislation for this purpose. Again, this investigation has given us more factual information. Your question about culture and pluralism will become part of the evaluation. We believe that freedom of choice is an important pillar of our system. You know that it has also become part of the fusion impact assessment to make this clear. Then it is also important to keep following that closely. The community will have to assume its responsibilities locally when it comes to the offer it wants there and what it wants or does not want to accept. She should be able to take that into account in the choices she makes in that regard. Mr President, I think those were the questions that remained. Then there is one motion, under the letter G, by Mr Ganzevoort. I think that motion is superfluous, because I have tabled a law which I have already taken care of. That is what I have presented to you. We all agree that something must be done here. That is why we have taken this into account in the legislation and it is part of this law. Of course, I am waiting with interest for the vote on the law. On that basis, we shall also look further at whether it is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u209	The operative part states: if the bill is rejected. Does the Minister still consider the motion superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u210	I have never seen it before, not even as a Member of Parliament, who has been so ahead of votes. But it's your right to file such a motion. I'm standing here as a responsible ruler. This cabinet has taken responsibility for this bill, which also includes this important part for the Wadden Islands. It goes beyond the Wadden Islands, but that's where it plays. That's what I stand for. It is up to you to judge this law. When this law cannot continue, such a situation is, of course, always possible. Of course, this means that the strengthening of the fusion impact assessment and the way in which we intend to put the mr into position will not continue. It does indeed mean that, as far as the part of the judgment at national level is concerned, we will then be able to fall back into the situation we had. You know what the facts of that were. This means that there is a problem on this section that is quite urgent for an island. Well, that's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u211	But then I do not understand the Minister's position that the motion is superfluous. Indeed, if the bill is passed, it will be superfluous and I will withdraw it immediately. If the law is not passed, it is not superfluous. Then this will help the Minister at least reach out to this part, which he himself considers important?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u212	I have submitted a law that I stand for and which this is part of. It is indeed up to you to judge that. We await that judgment with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u213	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-eerstekamer-11.u214	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled.
