ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on corona dissemination in relation to international passenger traffic. I welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State in our midst. I'm glad you're here. This debate has been requested by Mrs Kröger of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and I am happy to give her the floor as the first speaker. We agreed on a maximum of five minutes. On top of that, I would like to meet with you: up to four questions in the first term of office. Mrs Kröger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week alone, 40,000 air travelers from Corona area. In other words, the policy of curbing the risks of corona spread through travel fails. The cabinet appears to be constantly following the facts. With Schiphol as an international air carrier hub, the Netherlands is, of course, particularly vulnerable to flare-up fireplaces elsewhere. And if we have it under control in the Netherlands again but not somewhere else, things can go wrong again. This cabinet is generally very alert to defending the interests of the aviation sector. Does the Minister not see that it is precisely in the interests of the sector itself to come up with clear measures to counter the risk of spreading and thus restore confidence? We need to make sure that there are far fewer journeys to high-risk areas. That must be the goal: really only those necessary trips and no holidays. And that's gonna go wrong now. On which flights and which countries are at present mainly infected? How many trips are going to orange areas and is this getting less? How many of these are holiday flights? In her letter, the Minister indicated that he could not actually monitor this, but the GGD does have those figures. In future, can the Minister undertake to monitor this, structuralally, and to share this information with the Chamber, so that we can also strengthen policy with this information? Mr. Chairman. In reply to the parliamentary questions, the Minister lays down virtually everything in the passenger's own responsibility. In view of the fact that 40,000 passengers come from high-risk areas alone via air transport, does the Minister recognise that this does not work at all, that it is not enough on its own responsibility alone? And if it recognizes this, what measures, additional measures, does it intend to take? It was at the end of January that I asked Parliament questions for the first time about the risks of spreading a virus that was still very unknown in China and yet those flights from the KLM to Wuhan, even with a discount, continued for a long time. So once we let it go very wrong. What do we do now to make sure that doesn't happen again this way? 'Cause it's still going south. In a few minutes, if I wanted to, I could book a vacation online for tomorrow to a corona area. For a few tens on holiday or a last minute, a week to Gran Canaria in apartment complex Corona Roja. And that's not a joke. As far as we are concerned, it is absolutely reprehensible that an airline such as Ryanair offers tickets to high-risk areas for €5 and now even stunts with the second ticket for free. I know the Minister shares this view, but is she going to take action? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, raising the issue in Europe is really not enough. Can the Minister, for example, have the Land Attorney carry out a legal investigation into what steps we can take to stop this? Competition law or deliberate endangerment, prevention and public health, there must be a way to deal with unnecessary travel. Can she inform the Chamber about this? With only two weeks left until the autumn holidays, I would ask the Minister to come up with a concrete plan quickly. As far as we are concerned, this must include the following elements: hard agreements with the travel industry, no advertisements, stunts or offers for holidays to corona areas, a pop-up when booking, only necessary trips and quarantine when coming home. A customer must check to be familiar and agree with those rules and receive an e-mail before departure with exactly the appointments, where you can get tested, et cetera. And then there's the health statement. This will only be completed with us in the Netherlands upon departure, and will hardly be checked. Other countries are really doing this differently. In Belgium, for example, you have to fill out the statement digitally 48 hours before departure and it contains much more data on the purpose of the trip and the stay. Is the Minister willing to take a good look at this? Finally, I'll be on the test street. It is completely incomprehensible that it is first announced as a measure to contain corona, and then closed again. I understand that we really need a lot more testing capacity and I agree that in the event of scarcity, asymptomatic testing of holidaymakers is not a priority. But let's quickly increase the capacity so that that test street can be opened again. Mr. Chairman. I really hope that the outcome of this debate is that the Minister acknowledges that we have a problem because there are still far too many travellers from at-risk areas. And I hope that she recognises that, as with all other aspects of this crisis, there is also a need for a public authority to intervene and play a solid role in aviation, and that the usual laisser-faire policy for aviation is really not at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. There is an interruption by Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u4	I hear Mrs Kröger from GroenLinks mainly talking about aviation. That is important and aviation is also an important subject tonight. But for a good balance, I'd like to know what's going on with buses. How's it going over there? And there are the trains. Today trains arrived from Antwerp, from Paris, from London. Mrs Kröger is very much in favour of this. How do we deal with that when it comes to health statements? And what about all those people who cross the border every day by car, or even now book their own trip? What about those other means of transport when it comes to health declarations, when it comes to protocols? Does GroenLinks have any idea about that, or should we just close the borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you for this question, because I think this is very important. Aviation is, of course, a very concentrated setting. In addition, it is very clear where people leave and there is also a whole procedure for departure. And if we don't get it done in that controlled setting, what about all the other modalities? But I do agree with Mr Dijkstra that this is much wider than aviation alone. I am therefore also talking explicitly about agreements with the travel industry. As far as I am concerned, this is also about the train and the bus. The point is that we really actively discourage people from travelling to orange areas at the moment. That must be more than just saying it once in a debate; that is really very clear putting discouragement at the heart of your policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Laçin of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. For months, the world has been under the spell of the coronavirus. We were surprised, and that was partly due to the speed with which the virus spread across all continents. That is why it is good that we are talking about corona in relation to international passenger transport. I'll start with aviation. I have already indicated in the debate on 18 June that the aviation sector also retains its exceptional position in times of corona. While no press conference has passed in which, rightly so, was hammered on the rule of 1.5 meters away, full planes were allowed to fly across the world. Because they would have HEPA filters that wouldn't give the corona virus a chance. We asked for the evidence, but it didn't turn out to be there. We will only be told in December what effect HEPA filters will have, while airlines will carry out holiday flights to code-orange areas. For those areas only necessary journeys are allowed. How is that possible? Why can this, while we are dealing here with a second wave, and more stringent measures appear to be inevitable? Both in the letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and in the answers from this Minister to our parliamentary questions, everything is done away with: the responsibility of the people. But the second wave is here and now. When is the measure full for this minister and the cabinet, and is there any intervention? I would like to hear from this Minister what she is going to do, for example, to stop Ryanair. At Ryanair they offer €5 tickets to code-orange areas and they have now even started actions such as " fetching two tickets for the price of one." For the SP this is downright scumbag and inexplicable. What can the Minister do about this both nationally and internationally? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. As far as we are concerned, holiday flights to code-orange areas are being made impossible and travellers to those areas must be able to demonstrate that their journey is really necessary. What possibilities does the Minister see for this? I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, Schiphol employees were here in front of the House of Representatives. They have continued to work since the beginning of this crisis, while at Schiphol Airport the corona measures were not always maintained as well and quickly. While the catering industry had to close down, viplounges remained open at Schiphol Airport. Ground stewardesses and security guards had to do their work without protective equipment in a place where it was impossible to keep 1.5 meters away. Over and over again, they had to take action to get things done in a normal way. Because many of them are in daily contact with travellers from code-orange areas, they wanted the coronateststraat at Schiphol Airport to be made accessible to them. A legitimate demand, finds the SP. But less than two days later, the test street at the airport was temporarily closed, because the cabinet to six months of corona crisis still failed to get the test capacity in order. At a time when the number of infections is increasing and the cabinet seems to have completely lost control of the virus, thousands of people from code-orange areas enter the country every day without being tested. While Germany tests all travellers from those areas, we test zero. Last week alone, 40,000 travellers travelled from Schiphol to a code-orange area. Some of them come back sooner or later and are therefore not tested. That is incomprehensible and unacceptable. In my second term I will therefore table a motion stating that the test street at Schiphol Airport should also be made accessible to the Schiphol workers when reopened. I am counting on broad support from the Chamber for this motion. All the Schiphol employees want is to be seen. I therefore offer the Minister this flashlight on their behalf, so that she will never forget them again. Mr. Chairman. Then there's rail and car transport. What are the possibilities for better mapping and testing of holidaymakers returning by rail, bus or car? Can this be done at stations such as Amsterdam Centraal and Rotterdam Centraal, where international trains and buses often arrive or stop? How can we get a better grip on holidaymakers returning from code-orange areas by car? Does the Minister see possibilities for this? Does she know, for example, how other countries do this? I would like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Laçin of the SP. We'll make sure the flashlight coronaproof comes to the minister. The cathedral will be cleaned for a while. I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte, who is a member of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by thinking about the people in the travel sector, because there are tens of thousands of jobs on the road and the jobs left are heavier than ever. You'd just be a stewardess to have a passenger removed because he's not wearing a mouth cap. And then the flight has yet to begin. We keep seeing examples like this. As far as we're concerned, we're here tonight for two things. That's first of all getting control of the virus until a drug or vaccine helps us. But we are also standing here in front of the travel sector, because we need to show that flying is safe again. If I'm thinking about getting control of that virus, I'm gonna have to get something off my chest. I have the feeling that the Netherlands is too often chasing the facts. In February and March we often asked questions about air traffic. Why did the routes remain open, while the intensive care in Bergamo was full and Italy was already locked? When there was a discussion about safety on board, we said: make sure that before the flu season we know more about the distribution through the filter in airplanes and how filtering and ventilation systems help. We were promised an interim report from the NLR and the RIVM, but now that the second wave begins, there is a power point with a purpose. We understand that such a groundbreaking research takes time, but we actually don't know anything now, whereas there are American studies on dissemination on board. Among other things, there is the case of a coughing woman who infected 15 others, while she was in the big business class. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she can respond to these points and whether she can correct the picture that we too often dampen the well after the calf has been in it for some time. Mr. Chairman. We also have that test street. I know that another minister is directly responsible for this, but still the following. Prime Minister Rutte said last week that they stopped testing travellers in Germany, but the fact check at the NRC was tough: that's just not true; in Germany they test all travellers from at-risk areas. We should do the same. On August 6 it was announced by Minister De Jonge: everyone from an orange country gets a GGD'er, who says: testing. Last Tuesday he said that all that was a trial and that therefore not everyone was tested. Enough has been said about the test capacity. It is clear that it is not enough. And that means that the test street is now closed, we have to deal with that. But saying it was all just a trial seems like a really bad excuse. Can the Minister send us the test setup that proves it's not? Can she indicate when the House of Representatives was first reported that it was intended as a trial for a small club travelers? I think it was the first time in a letter sent the day the test street closed. My signals are that it also attacked the parties involved at the airport. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a request to the Minister, because this is a difficult time. The Chamber is asking a lot. It'll happen more often that things don't work out. We understand that, but if something doesn't work out, say so and don't try to move the goalposts afterwards. As far as we are concerned, we are moving as quickly as possible towards a covering test policy, as Germany has already had almost two months for all travellers from at-risk areas; for rail, bus and aviation. It is also the only way to give people confidence in flying and travelling again; not only on arrival. Alitalia now offers quick tests on corona-free flights. Only those who test negative can come. Lufthansa's gonna do the same. We do not want the Netherlands to lag behind again. That is why I make four proposals: 1. Let us agree that a plan is being made to enable testing at all airports as soon as that capacity is in order. 2. Let's see which methods are being used and how the Netherlands can respond more quickly, because there are more ways to screen, without giving each traveller a PCR test. In Dubai and Finland, corona dogs are used to identify virus carriers. Such a sniff test takes ten seconds and gives immediate results. According to the research, that's where the accuracy is close to that of a polymerase test. 3. Let us strive for pre-screening, i.e. the testing of passengers for each flight, so that flights become safe again, and that in European consultation. 4. In the meantime, let us align health statements in Europe, because we do now, but no one seems to notice that they are mandatory and each country has its own statement. I would like to respond to these four proposals. Finally, the dumping prices. The Chamber adopted a motion for minimum prices and now there is a letter, in which the sector is urged not to stunt flights to high-risk areas. But no one's been called in. Most travel organisations and airlines are really responsible, but some are not responsible for everything. As of today, Ryanair even offers free second flight tickets to fireplaces. Not only does that require a letter, but it really requires moral leadership. Say: I'm going to use all the instruments to see what I can do to make sure companies don't promote holidays to fireplaces. My question is: can we expect leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u10	I like those sniffling dogs very much, but I've been asking for government money for more detective dogs as long as I'm here, even when it comes to explosives and cancer detection. I've had those dogs here, but no one supported that. Now you are going to call on other countries that do, while there is a Member of Parliament who has been asking for it for a long time. Your party has never supported that either. I make this request in every debate: listen to each other a little more, give each other a little more. Often I have it at the good end, Mr. Paternotte, whether you like it or not. They don't call me nostradiolus for nothing. I've been right a lot. I've asked for this before, including dogs that detect diseases. I've had them as the only MP in the hallway and in my room. They track down all the diseases that exist and no one who supports it or is enthusiastic about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u11	Well, Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u12	I think that if we look at the shorthand of the last 15 years of the Chamber, the term 'nostradiolus' does indeed occur on a regular basis, although I cannot escape the impression that that is also because Mr Graus is speaking here. Let me tell Mr Graus that I do not know exactly what has been discussed about dogs in other countries. I only give Finland and Dubai as an example. Those aren't very crazy countries that don't know what they're doing. There are scientific institutes attached to that. The New York Times had a story about this. They do say that this can make a difference with the coronavirus. I think we're all trying to get control of the virus, that the second wave isn't going to be a huge storm. That is why I ask the Minister to look at this, but also, for example, other approaches. We know that a lot of countries do that temperature screening. RIVM is critical of that. Maybe we should take a look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u13	We're leading the way. We supply dogs, to Israel, to the United States, to detect explosives, diseases, and you name it all. I can't believe you're going to call another country, while we have the knowledge and the good dogs in our house. I hope that you will support me in this in future, so that we can use these dogs much more, including for sniffing around people walking into an airport. Because if they have something on them, a dog often has them right away with the shoelace. We need to deploy a lot more dogs, a lot more dogs, including the police. Look how quiet it gets on the street. Perhaps I could ask the Minister to respond through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u14	I used to have a dog, too, but it died when I was 6. I think that Mr Graus has more knowledge of dogs, so I actually see his interruption as an encouragement to ask this question to the Minister and get her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u15	You were almost at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u16	He was a very sweet dog. This goes back a bit in time, but okay. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on travel advice. Greece has 250 inhabited islands. They were all put on orange at the same time recently, while other countries only did so in the islands where there were many infections. On all kinds of islands where no or almost no contamination had been detected, the Dutch were picked away by the pool, while the people from the rest of Europe were allowed to remain. It is such an example where I think: let us please arrange those travel advice at European level. In any case, let us not put 250 islands on orange in one go if the situation per island is completely different. Because traveling to an area is not recommended without reason, it also harms people. It harms people who work in the travel sector. I would like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to have these travel advice drawn up in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you. I would ask Mr Dijkstra, member of the VVD group, to come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. After the lockdown in March and April international passenger transport became possible again, but international travel also brings with it real risks, risks of new infections. Of course we do not want cross-border infections, but neither do we want to close the borders. The solutions are not simple, not even here tonight. That is why I would particularly like to see how we can remove ambiguity and provide certainty. The VVD wants to reduce the risks and safety is paramount. Actually, I'm longing for the virus, and I think everyone is going to have a time before the virus, but we also know that international travel will look different for the time being. In recent months, I have spoken to several people from the travel industry, a sector that has been the first affected and badly affected. This is the case for a long time. There is a lot of uncertainty about what the future brings them. I would therefore like to stress that economic recovery is welcome again, in the travel industry, but also in the catering industry, for tourist destinations, in aviation and in all sectors heavily affected by the virus. 'Cause we're not done with COVID-19. The VVD mainly wants to offer perspective, however difficult that may be. At the same time, the Netherlands should not miss the boat. Because if safety comes first, how can we ensure that we can travel safely again? That's a key question. How do we restore all business, social and holiday travel in the future? We have a beautiful sector. Take the aviation, with 114,000 people, but also take the 21,000 hardworking people in the travel industry. Take the 400 coach companies we are rich in the Netherlands and all those people who work on the international rail network every day. They're all committed to satisfied customers. And that infrastructure, that network of all those people who work in it, must not be lost. It remains necessary and therefore deserves appropriate support from the government. That is why I think it is important that we continue to talk with the travel sector and with all the others about where solutions are possible, together with the government as a partner. My question is also whether regional tailor-made work can help with regard to the status of countries and regions. Is any coordination at European level appropriate? And is it desired? Code orange is not a valid reason for canceling a plane ticket. This is a problem for consumers. So he's not getting his money back. And what happens when you're in a yellow area that suddenly turns orange? Yet there are daily planes leaving for orange areas. Now some people are going to compose their own journey, otherwise they will have to go back head-on and make extra costs. In an organised journey, the travel organisation has a duty to bring its customers back. That is no longer so sustainable. Shouldn't it be easier to cancel the trip because of corona? That seems to me to be a real suggestion for the travel providers themselves to be able to offer their products and yet offer that certainty. What happens if the color of your destination changes? In my opinion, this is really something for insurers to pick up: that you can easily rebook, get money back or get a workable voucher. I also see that it is encouraging that from 1 October new arrangements will apply to bookings and that people will get the money back within a few days. The NVR wants to set up a voucher bank. Can that plan play a role? And what initiatives are being taken by the European Commission to improve consumer security?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u19	I hear Mr Dijkstra talking about flights to code-orange areas. I have said something about this in my own contribution. The VVD calls it, but then it doesn't have any consequences. Does the VVD, like the SP, think that at this time when the number of infections is increasing, the test street at Schiphol Airport has also been closed, and 40,000 people have already travelled to code-orange areas last week, should intervene and say: we are going to discourage or ban those holiday flights to code-orange areas? In the current situation in the Netherlands with the increasing number of infections, we cannot run the risk of getting further infections from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u20	Contaminations come in all kinds of ways. In my interruption I also mentioned the people who drive. Really forbidding seems very difficult to me. You have a flight to a certain area. We say if it's code orange, don't go. A vacation is not a good reason to go. It has to be necessary. There are also plenty of people on a plane who go because of family conditions, like a funeral, or who have another good reason to travel. Maybe not all of them, but quite a few. I don't think it's gonna work. I don't think it's gonna work. In addition, half the world is orange by now, so that would mean that everything will lie still.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u21	That is also what I just suggested in my contribution: to prohibit, to prevent holiday flights to code-orange areas. People who go to code-orange areas must be able to demonstrate that their flight is necessary. So we make the distinction that also makes the VVD. We make it impossible for people to go to code-orange areas purely and alone for vacation with the risk of bringing the virus back. I think we can find each other in that. Does the VVD agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u22	You're dealing with some implementation issues. Asking about the purpose of a trip is something that can't be done now, because of all kinds of privacy laws. It must be practical and feasible. Take a destination somewhere in Spain. There may be a number of people who go on vacation themselves, and we say that they should not do so at all. They are also at risk: a there is nothing to do and b if something happens to you, you are not doing well with the insurer either. However, there are also people who live there or who have family there. That's why those flights are going. Those planes have a number of people who have a really good reason to go and a number of people who we prefer not to go. However, banning or asking about the purpose of the journey is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr Laçin has a point. It's about how we raise people's awareness. We ourselves have an example role in this. How do we remind people of their own responsibility and the consequences of their actions, without making travel impossible? It was just a little hidden in my answer. How do we support the travel advice? I was just asking about regional customization and coordination. To restore confidence in particular is part of this. An appropriate travel advice is really needed for this. How does something like this come about? It is green, yellow, orange or red: it is a kind of Twister, where you have to put your hand on one color and your foot on the other color. Meanwhile, the green and blue of the Twisterboard has disappeared and everything is orange and red. It's just really hard. I'll ask the cabinet what can be done better, including in the details. I spoke to someone from Norway who had to get rid of his holiday destination. The Norwegian government simply said: this is the maximum number, if that is exceeded and you are not back for a certain date, you must quarantine. That man had a week to leave. Then you're talking about something and people don't have to go head-on. Build in a little time and be transparent about what the criteria are. More uniformity, including European, to ultimately contribute to a safe travel environment. If only the RIVM advice is leading, is that sufficient and is that wise? Can we get the advice a little early? This evening, we talked mainly about aviation, but it also applies, of course, to car traffic, shipping and rail traffic. There are risks there too, but we have much less focus. My question to the Minister is whether these forms of organized international traffic are subject to the same strict protocols and what can be learned from aviation. There is no doubt that we must continue to be able to test sufficiently accurately and quickly in the future if we are to keep the borders open. We need to remove uncertainty and remind travellers of their own responsibilities, without making travel impossible and seeing the travel industry and other industries evaporate, because they are seriously damaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u25	Thank you. A question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yesterday we had a debate in which the dumping prices were also frequently discussed. At that time it was Ryanair, which offered €5 tickets for travel to high-risk areas. In the meantime, it appears that these are free tickets. Mr Dijkstra came yesterday with a declaration of love for Ryanair, which he called his favourite company. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me that it is absolutely reprehensible to offer free travel to orange areas at this time and that we should call on the Minister to take action against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u27	We're not talking about the pricing of a commercial company. What's a good price? An amount of €5 is very low. That's seducing people to make an impulse purchase. €20 is also low...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u28	Free is even lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u29	It's pretty low sometimes, but I'm not sure that's true for all the tickets. If an airplane goes anyway, and the people have paid €100, €150 or €80 for their ticket, then it may be that the last twenty seats are offered in this way. When it comes to pricing, European legislation applies: I do not think I have the tools at the moment to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u30	That wasn't my question. My question was whether Mr Dijkstra and many others in this Chamber agree that it is absolutely reprehensible at the moment to stroll tickets to high-risk areas. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u31	It's not pretty. If I were Ryanair, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr Paternotte has come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u33	The answer is, of course, clear. You can find all kinds of ethics, but you also have to have the tools to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr Dijkstra said yesterday in the debate that Ryanair is a fine airline to fly with, after others had a lot of questions about what this company is doing at the moment. In today's action it is literally said: take a free flight ticket, then you can take a vacation. That's really a way to seduce people to go to those corona fireplaces. We are Parliament here. At a press conference the Prime Minister said to Corendon: you are going to offer holidays to Turkey again, but do not do this. And Corendon wasn't gonna do it. The Minister said: now we can offer holidays to fireplaces, we can't use them, it's even antisocial if you do. Here we have to ask Mr Dijkstra a question three times and then he says: yes, we have no instruments for that, and that company needs to get rid of those seats. And eventually he says, "Okay, I wouldn't do it." Can he show leadership here by also saying to Ryanair, who sees Mr Dijkstra as his representative in parliament, "Don't do this; do not promote holidays to corona fireplaces, because we really cannot use that during this second corona wave'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u35	The Netherlands itself is an orange country, so that also applies to incoming traffic. If a country is orange, then the absolutely urgent appeal to people is an advice; we do not need a string of strings to avoid going on holiday to an orange area and therefore not to make use of this kind of tempting offers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u36	At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. Mr Dijkstra has made a fine speech on safety and concern about the second wave. In the coming weeks, we may expect new measures to intervene in people's lives. For example, one cannot be in the pub until very late because of the danger. Then it is logical that Parliament should be able to say that it thinks that airlines should not be allowed to offer such tickets at these prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yeah, you can do that. I'm sure we'll have motions on that tonight. I'll judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u38	I'm curious. From the point of view of safety and health, it is very logical that the Dutch Parliament should say to companies that offer these kinds of tickets: do not? If necessary, we are going to look for legal measures to counter this, because we are living in exceptional times and this calls for exceptional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yeah, you can. It's all possible. But I also pointed out that there are, of course, many more modes of transport. In my view, we agree that there are routes and health statements in the aviation sector. You just don't get on board. You're not getting in that trunk. You're not getting on the plane. Mouthcaps and the like are mandatory. There are also filters on board and such. The number of infections in aircraft is currently being investigated. Is that indeed higher or is that the same as here on the street? Compare that with other modes of transport. Hundreds of thousands of people went on holiday with their cars last summer, also to areas around Paris and in France that are red. If you take action, I think it should be fair and apply to all those modalities. You have to be as right as possible on the playing field. In addition, the situation after corona has, of course, changed, perhaps also lasting. I'd love for us to be able to test everyone in no time before he boards or at a gas station or a station. But we also need to be honest. We now have a capacity of 30,000 tests a day. Of course, that's far too little. That's gotta go to a million or more. That's what we're doing. We also need to be real in what we want. I think we have the same wish that we should be able to travel safely in no time. At the moment, we need to remind people of their own responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u40	There is another question from Mr Öztürk of Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u41	There's a lot of inconsistencies in the corona policy. Consistent policy ensures that everyone feels treated equally and fairly. That's what the VVD's for, I suppose. Bus companies, taxi companies and the train adhere neatly to the 1.5 meters. Next, the VVD supports an airline that wants to fill the aircraft, so that people can no longer sit at 1.5 meters away. How is that possible? How can you support a company that wants to get the planes full with dumping prices, while we have to tell the story from a distance of 1.5 metres everywhere? I must also keep a distance of 1.5 metres from my colleagues here, while we also have a good air treatment system here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u42	It's gotta be explainable. I agree with you in part. It's gotta be explainable. It has to be transparent. People need to understand. The 1.5 meters in planes is a tricky one. Therefore, there are other measures that you often do not have with other means of transport. So it's hard to compare, but you want to treat them equally as much as possible. I think it is important that I agree with Mr Öztürk that you should be able to explain it to the traveller and that it should be clear where you stand. Of course, we all hope that in a moment the journey can get going in a safe way. That's what we're looking for solutions to. I also said at the beginning that these solutions are not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u43	I understand it's not easy. We're all right to do that. But the promotion of airlines that want to get the planes full is why they have those dumping prices.. is not really smart. Okay, it's tough, but let's not promote that kind of thing. Then let's give a little more space to the people on the plane. The VVD should contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u44	The government also doesn't promote flying for €5. That's what a commercial company does. The question is whether we have instruments to prohibit or prevent such a thing. You can work on that with each other, but at the moment those instruments are just not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u45	We agreed to ask a total of four questions. You were invited to ask your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u46	That is true, but before the summer your own Prime Minister, or ultimately the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Mr Rutte, was working on Corendon. He was pretty bright back then. That cost Corendon a lot of money and that caused a lot of misery while the company was selling. None of that happened. Eventually, your own prime minister put a very large airline at risk. On the one hand, as a liberal, you say that we should not interfere. That's market forces. On the other hand, Rutte did. That's a little double.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u47	It's okay to have an ethical judgment. The question is whether you also have the tools to prevent that. It's acid to Corendon, all right. They're lucky they quit. It is very unpleasant that other companies, from Turkey itself, have just started flying and that people are now booking their own tickets and booking their own hotel. It's just gonna happen. The measures we take together must be a legal one and be well explained. If that is not the case, people no longer take care of it through a tour operator, but they do it themselves. Then we run a risk, because then no one will comply with the regulations of the government. That's not what we're supposed to want with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mrs Kröger, a third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u49	What we should not want with each other is for airlines to give free tickets to high-risk areas. The first step is to agree. At least I can hear Mr Dijkstra say that it is not beautiful. I'll take that if he agrees with me. Then he says we don't have the instruments. That's exactly the question. My question to the Minister would be: put the national attorney on it and really explore all the legal possibilities, for example from the point of view of prevention or the precautionary principle. Explore the legal possibilities to see if there is anything we can do about it. Would Mr Dijkstra support that appeal to the Minister? You assume that we do not have these resources, but that is still entirely the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u50	You should explore that. The Minister's gonna answer that. I'll wait for those answers. I realise that there is European legislation that prohibits, for example, minimum prices. We also have no minimum prices in the Albert Heijn. That may be the wrong example, but this is the case. You can find anything from the market. You can say it's not good at all or it's weird to give away tickets. But the government must have the tools to intervene in the market. I'll argue for a little realism. The Minister can undoubtedly answer which of your proposals are or are not viable and which you can implement directly and which will take some more time. I don't know. I'm not a specialist in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr President, I realise that this is my last question. I believe that the debate on minimum prices is a different one than we are currently having. This discussion is about deliberately luring, seducing and stimulating travel to a high-risk area. This is a risk to public health. I ask for a good lawyer to look into the legal possibilities in the Public Health Act or in other legislation. Mr Dijkstra says: 'I am going to wait and see what the Minister has to say'. I'd really like to know what the VVD is responding to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u52	I answer that I'll wait and see what the minister comes up with. It's gotta be sustainable. As a big party, it's not our role to call out all kinds of things that we can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u53	I wasn't going to go through with this, but I think it's a little easy. Here is the airman of the largest party in the Netherlands. We're dealing with a second wave. Caregivers say they can't handle it anymore and they're getting it stuffy from the image that's coming. Horeca entrepreneurs are running out of time. And then the airman from the VVD says here: we don't have the instruments. The question is: how does the VVD feel about Ryanair offering free tickets to corona fireplaces? What does the VVD think? Can Mr Dijkstra make it clear what the VVD thinks about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u54	I just said it's not pretty and they shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk. She speaks on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, we could and should have been stricter. Were all those holidays abroad necessary? Isn't that why we took unnecessary risks? We had a beautiful summer. We could've all stayed here. The disturbing news that a concentration of the hereditary material of the coronavirus was in the sewer water at Schiphol is stuck in the back of my head. Mr. Chairman. I agree with all those critical notes that have just been made about the dumping prices. We know like no other the risks that our constituents run. During the entire corona crisis, the Netherlands has sometimes been lax or at least slow to move in from fireplaces. How does the Minister look back on the choices made? What else would she do? Then I'll call the deficits. The Dutch care seems to be linked to shortages: shortage of staff, internships, protective equipment and test capacity. The fact that there are shortages also seems to determine the corona policy on aviation. How would the Minister deal with aviation policy if it had sufficient people and resources at its disposal? What's different? And then the test street at Schiphol. Two weeks ago, that pardo was closed. A number of parties, including 50PLUS, had just asked written questions about this. The pilot project, which initially did not have that title at all, had to be evaluated first. The lack of test capacity also plays a role here. There's no other way, because this is also hard in the letter. The latter, of course, is too crazy for words. The Minister of VWS has indicated that the test capacity will be increased to 70,000 in the next week. Is it a concrete option that, in the case of sufficiently available tests, the test street at Schiphol Airport will be reopened, opening it to staff as well? You can't be sure where you get infected. But if you reason like that, you really don't have to test at all. I'd like a reaction to that. In Greece, samples are carried out on all incoming flights. What does the Minister think of this idea? At the initiative of 50Plus, the wastewater at nursing homes will be tested. After all, the virus is much more visible in wastewater than there are signs. Especially with the increasing number of passengers, the laxness of some people and the changing test policy, it can be wise to try other ideas as well. We understand that it is possible to test aircraft wastewater for the presence of the coronavirus. Would it be an idea to do a test with this, for example by testing all devices from orange areas? At least you have an indication if there's a presence. If so, the passengers could be tested. In any case, it can make a good contribution to preventing further dissemination. I'd like a response. Then I come to the health statements, which have just been mentioned. They are mandatory at Eindhoven and Schiphol, but are they seriously monitored and to what extent does that help? We already see it on the street: people are becoming more careless. It's just been said. We walk right along each other again, we fly more often and there is a whole discussion about the duty of mouth cap. That also reflects on the plane. The other day there was another message that air passengers simply took off the masks and did not allow themselves to be corrected. This is a risk factor for all travellers, but also for staff. To what extent can we expect the staff to be enforcing? What other solutions can we come up with for this? It is a real security risk. How could we help those staff? Finally, what has not yet been mentioned, I come to Lelystad Airport. Because of the corona crisis, this subject also makes us think. We heard that 214 million has been spent, even before a holiday flight has been carried out. The number of passengers is falling. We still don't know how the virus develops. The question is: are we sure that we will be back on the old number of passengers in 2023? The current situation is such that you wonder if it is not extremely undesirable to open another airport, while Schiphol does not even deserve its regular number of flights. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Is she sure we're gonna get back to the same level? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I shall now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to the overall cabinet strategy around corona, the strategy around travel and corona is unclear. First a test street, now no test street at Schiphol. A mask on the plane, but not at the airport. A health certificate if you're going to fly, but not if you're travelling internationally by train or car. It seems more chaos than directing. We are speaking with the Minister of IenW this evening, but many of the subjects we are discussing are also the responsibility of the Minister of the United States of America and, in part, also of Foreign Affairs. However, I address the entire cabinet tonight, because of the importance of a clear strategy and direction regarding the fight against corona for all Dutch people in the Netherlands, but also for Dutch people travelling abroad. We were so relieved in June. The number of new infections had fallen enormously. Just before the summer break, it seemed as if we had almost conquered Corona. Airlines were eager to turn vouchers into flights. The cabinet assured us that we could fly again, because the HEPA filters would protect us. In the meantime we are two and a half months further and the effectiveness of HEPA filters is still being investigated. This summer we also saw stumpy departure halls with people without mouth caps. What about the effectiveness of these HEPA filters? What's taking so long? Why is there no one-and-a-half meter measure in aircraft if the effectiveness of HEPA filter cannot yet be demonstrated? In spite of this uncertainty, can the Minister indicate that she is sure that people can fly safely? And what measures is the Minister going to take to prevent these staggering departure halls? It was just about it. People's health statements are now being requested for a flight. But what effect does this have? Does the Minister agree that the vast majority of travellers will indicate that they have no complaints if there is no control or post-control? Meanwhile we see the second wave coming towards us. Meanwhile, the Netherlands has also been put on orange and daily flights from other orange areas arrive. These passengers, thousands a day, enter the Netherlands undisturbed without being tested. Now that a test street would be badly needed, the cabinet has already removed it. Where's the strategy here? In line with Mr Paternotte, when will there be a comprehensive plan for travelling abroad and returning travellers to the Netherlands from orange areas? Does the cabinet take the risk of contagion from other countries seriously? If we don't have a test street, how can we even contain the virus from travellers entering via Schiphol or regional airports? Is the Minister prepared to reopen the test street and perhaps also to look at regional airports? And if so, when will this happen? How is the Minister going to ensure that the security guards and the other staff can also work safely? Can it ensure that airport staff can also be tested at the airport? Mr Paternotte also mentioned that dogs are now being used for corona testing in Finland. Can't we do that kind of tests in the Netherlands? I am looking at Mr Graus, who has been advocating this for years. It's been about 15 years! This saves test capacity, which is still insufficient. But there may also be other innovative testing options that allow us to ensure that all those travellers can be tested quickly who enter the Netherlands via Schiphol or by train or car from orange areas. Mr. Chairman. We also see changing travel advice again. Europe is a patchwork of various opinions, with the considerations behind travel advice not always clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u59	An interruption by Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mr Van Dijk is at a good pace! Indeed, last Tuesday, also in this house, we discussed the test capacity extensively with the cabinet. We're talking about that with IenW today. Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA says: we must start testing at Schiphol Airport as soon as possible. I think a lot of people in all kinds of places in the country want to test more. Whether it's on the border, on the highway, on Schiphol or at the station, that doesn't matter. But the capacity is limited and therefore the cabinet chooses priorities. Does Mr Van Dijk agree that we first opt for education and first choose for the people in care? Maybe the police will join us soon. Shouldn't we weigh those priorities well against just saying "Schiphol should lead the way"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u61	A good question from Mr Amhaouch, because there is indeed a shortage now. Then you have to choose and then I think it is very right that we give priority to the people on the front line when testing. But I also find it really worrying to see that a lot of people from orange regions still enter the Netherlands and that no test can take place. That's what worries me. So yes, the real answer and the real solution is of course to increase the test capacity as soon as possible. I also call on the Cabinet to involve all kinds of innovative opportunities in this process, because we may be able to speed it up. But Schiphol should not be spared, because Schiphol should also be given the opportunity to do so. So yes, of course a number of front-line professions have priority, but that is without prejudice to the fact that Schiphol is a great concern for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u63	About the travel advice. Does the Minister agree that all these changing travel advices create enormous uncertainty among travellers? Is it more or less clear how many people come from orange areas by train or car? And what measures can we take to do that? We are strict against the people who come by plane. We can also keep track of that, but we do not actually have a view of the rail passengers and the car passengers. What strategy does the cabinet pursue? Is the cabinet also in talks with the European Commission to pursue clear policies in Europe as soon as possible instead of these patchwork of travel advice? Then there's the price of the dump. This crisis once again shows the true nature of different companies. In the meantime, Ryanair and other budget companies offer tickets to orange areas at bottom prices. What does the Minister think that Ryanair apparently considers its own profits more important than people's health? Is the Minister prepared to take measures to ensure that no airline tickets to orange areas are offered at dumping prices? Is she going to intervene here as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It's crisis time. Of course, we don't know everything about the virus, so, of course, mistakes are made. That is why the policy is constantly being adjusted. But when it comes to corona spreading and traveling abroad, it is now time for the cabinet to put things in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch, member of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Coronavirus has led to a health crisis in the Netherlands, an economic crisis but also a social crisis. It is in the interests of the Netherlands and all the Dutch to manage this complex situation in all three areas. All three of them are connected. The revival of international transport has led, on the one hand, to people getting back on holiday, on a business trip or on a family visit. It also made sure that carriers in the air, on the rail and on the road got some income again and could keep people at work. Bread on the shelf for tens of thousands of employees in the different travel sectors. On the other hand, it entails health risks, including the spread of the corona virus. The CDA considers a good balance to be very important. Mr. Chairman. In order to be able to properly assess the balance, the CDA would like to gain more insight into the number of cross-border transport flows entering the Netherlands during the corona crisis and what the risks are for each means of transport. That is unclear, which is understandable. An example. On a train journey, a traveler generally has to deal with long journeys to Berlin, for example, 6.5 hours of worse ventilation systems and more switching compared to a 1.5 hour flight to Berlin. But on a plane to the same destination, passengers are often closer together, although they do have HEPA filters and vertical ventilation. They're more likely to get out of an area farther away. At the car the traveler again has to do with more contact moments during stops. Which means of transport, according to the Minister, is the safest way to travel abroad during the corona crisis? Of course I'm talking about necessary travel. Could the Minister also give us the latest state of play on the capacity utilisation of international trains, aircraft and buses? The CDA is also interested in the state of research on the various ventilation systems. What has been done with the NLR study? Is there any more clarity about the ventilation on trains? Can the Minister indicate what is the experience of car travel in terms of hygiene and the ability to keep a sufficient distance during stops?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u66	A question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr Amhaouch rightly pointed out the different modes of transport when you go to Berlin. It is not for nothing that you call Germany, because you live near Germany and you also spoke yesterday about that line from Liège to Aachen, via Maastricht. My question is this. In Germany, any traveler may be tested on arrival from a risk area by train, car or aircraft. In fact, everyone is being tested at all airports. If you compare this with the Netherlands, how did the Netherlands come out of that comparison?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u68	How the Netherlands comes out of the comparison? I don't know. I haven't heard. That's one of the questions. I'll be right there to test. We have done a test at Schiphol Airport, at least the GGD, and we would also look at its effectiveness. I'll come back to that later. How effective is testing, even if you have no complaints? Because we say we have to test them all. But the policy of the cabinet is actually: if you don't have complaints, you don't have to test; if you do have complaints, you have to test. Let's also look at the effects. A comparison with Germany can be possible, but I think we should also look at the Dutch context. How much test capacity do we have? That is the same little debate I just had with Mr Van Dijk. If we have limited capacity, how can we use it as effectively and efficiently as possible? Then start with the vital professions, and then the CDA chooses education, care and the police. The cabinet also says that there are risky corridors, for example to Brussels. Brussels is indeed an orange area and so is Antwerp. Yet a lot of people go there by train. Then we can focus on Schiphol, but we still get people to the Netherlands via the back door by train. Then I would say divide the test capacity immediately, if we have enough. So we're not against testing. We are in favour of setting priorities, but in the right places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u69	There's a reason I presented this equation. It is Germany that has now turned the west of our country on red, and with reason, because we have far more infections than that country. You say that we wanted to give priority to people in education and care. Of course I want to. Only the reason we say "let's test people at the airport" is that when a child comes back from vacation, you don't want it asymptomatic with corona to be in the classroom, and you don't want someone in care from abroad getting back a colleague who has contracted corona. So the question I'd like to ask is this one. I know we have problems with testing capacity in the Netherlands, much more than Germany, and that is incredibly annoying. But if this is what we are working towards, do you agree with us that we need to test all the people who enter at all airports and that we also need to make it possible for other people who return by bus or car from a risk area to be tested, whether they have symptoms or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u70	That's a little too fast for me. It sounds very likely what you're saying. The people at home will also say: you have to test everyone. That sounds very plausible. But if you were to go through that line, you should also say that anyone who goes from North Holland to Limburg should be tested in between, if we are going to talk about regions right away, region-specific. It is a question of: if you have a limited capacity, and that is not infinitely what priorities does the cabinet set? They start today with the people in care and the people in education. There have been discussions. Your party itself has chosen that the people in child care and extracurricular care should be tested. What choice do you make? Because politics is also making choices. Do you choose random tests for anyone entering the country or do you say "I'm going to see how I can effectively deploy the limited capacity to manage the crisis as well as possible"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u71	Let me put one more question to Mr Amhaouch. How do you explain that the Netherlands has so incredibly many more infections per 100,000 inhabitants than our large neighbour Germany, which is so similar to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u72	I can't judge that. Yesterday there was a very long debate. I have put together all the figures of our neighbouring countries in Europe. England, France, Spain, the Netherlands and Ireland are all around the average, just above it or just below it. Germany scores very well, that's right. I have no explanation for this, but I can see that there is a very rising trend in all those other European countries. That is not something typical of the Netherlands alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr Amhaouch always talks about limited testing capacity. How is that possible? We are one of the richest countries in the world. The Court of Auditors says that we could have tested more. There are resources. How can it be that his own minister, the somewhat popular Hugo de Jonge, cannot ensure that more tests can be done in the Netherlands and that we have the discussion here where your test is? We would like to see a test carried out at Schiphol Airport as well. My colleague rightly says that there are a lot of people there who work in the care sector, but so are people in the police. Then Mr Amhaouch tries to keep a somewhat pathetic story: we have little test capacity, so we choose care. We too choose care, but the people in the care that get sick also enter through Schiphol. How can you justify that when you do have the resources and not have the test capacity with your cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u74	That's easy when you're standing on the side, ashore. The best pilots are ashore. Managing a crisis is making choices. In everything you have limitations. We have limitations in people. We have limitations in testing. Would it be true that it only affects the Netherlands? If you read the news reports, you will see that the United Kingdom also suffers from a capacity shortage, which France also suffers from a capacity shortage and Spain also suffers from a capacity shortage. If we look at it in that context, I think we are doing well in the Netherlands and that is not good enough. Here again, there was a clear statement to the cabinet on Tuesday: there must be more testing capacity. It has also been said: let us focus on innovative things. Just now the snooping dog was mentioned, but hopefully the quick tests will come as well. But in crisis management you have to stand here in box K, then you have to dare to make choices and set priorities, and not yell along shore and say: everything has to be done. Not everything can happen. People at home know that, too. The people at home also prefer to opt for the school of their children and rather for the care where their partner works. You shouldn't just yell randomly: at Schiphol Airport it shouldn't be and in other places it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr. Öztürk, you've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u76	I was just on the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u77	That is true; I must admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u78	I don't want to stand on the sidelines and answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u79	I suggest that you take the opportunity to do so on your own terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u80	Otherwise, together on the train to Limburg we can discuss even further with a mouth cap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u81	Good. Mr Laçin has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u82	Of course, Mr Amhaouch chooses the easy way. He's talking about "the sideline" and "box-K." I think that a democracy needs both a strong opposition and a strong coalition, so let's leave those kinds of terms aside from each other. We are having an important debate here. We're talking about the holidays abroad. I would like to ask a question about this. We see that the test capacity is limited, for whatever reason; I do not want to have that debate here, because it has been held on Tuesday and I am not going to do that again. We also see the consequences of this. That is what Mr Paternotte is referring to. However, in order to make better use of this test capacity, we can also choose to discourage or even ban flights to code-orange areas in this situation. That is why I asked the Minister about the possibilities of banning those holiday flights to code-orange areas. What does the CDA think of us saying, just in order to make better use of this test capacity, in the front: as long as our test capacity is not in order and we cannot test at Schiphol Airport, we are going to ban holiday flights to code-orange areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u83	Firstly, I agree with Mr Laçin that a good opposition and coalition will help democracy. I believe that this was also very constructive last Tuesday in the debate on care, where several opposition parties had the debate on the sharp cut and the cabinet also embraced certain actions. So there's no misunderstanding. Then I come back to the ban, which was also discussed last Tuesday. That's kind of tricky. With banning flights to code-orange areas all black and white, I have quite a bit of trouble. I have mixed feelings about that. I'm willing to share that. There are people who have to be there for certain things. There are people who travel to a code-orange area for family conditions, whether that's a funeral or something. The question is whether you can really ban it, even in the implementation. I think there is also a responsibility for the people themselves. It's okay to discourage. And I will come back to the story of dumping, because what is happening there is really not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr. Chairman. Then test it. We have just talked about this, but I must continue to do so. I have some questions about testing. Much has already been said about this at last Tuesday's corona debate. But what about the possibilities of testing passengers from covid risk areas travelling by plane, train, bus or car? So that's about all the modalities. Where can travellers with complaints go quickly? I don't think you should start testing blindly, but you should do it with people with complaints. Do we now have information on how effective it is? I'm talking about the people who, for example, were tested at Schiphol Airport or tested at the GGDs. How much of that is related to the fact that they have a travel history? It is therefore important that they have been tested positively and that this can indeed be traced back to the fact that they are coming from abroad. I think that this is very important information and that it is important to use it. Mr. Chairman. Then the CDA would like to hear a response from the Minister to the statements of André Rouvoet, the new chairman of the GGD's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u86	I understand that Mr Paternotte is trying to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u87	I have just heard Mr Amhaouch say that he is wondering where travellers can be tested with complaints. I assume you also mean that people should not travel at all when they have complaints and that your question therefore concerns people who get complaints after they have traveled? I think it is very important that we all make it clear: if you have any complaints, don't go on a journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yeah, I'm talking about people coming back. Thank you for this addition, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u90	I had stayed with the statements of Mr André Rouvoet, the new chairman of GGD GHOR Netherlands. He questions the testing of travellers without symptoms at Schiphol Airport. In his view, that could be counterproductive, because people feel safe when the test is negative, and then they don't follow the rules. Finally, Mr President. RTL News indicated at the beginning of September that Ryanair has made a mega-price reduction for flights of the next one and a half months. Almost all so-called offers from the Netherlands go to a code-orange area. A million tickets. For only €5 you fly to different code-orange areas, while the Dutch government recommends that you travel to the area in question only if necessary. Does the Minister consider this to be an attractive offer or a vulgar dumping on the European market? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that it is impossible to explain that airline tickets to code-orange areas are offered at dumping prices? Is this not undermining government policy and is this not undermining the European Commission's policy? What does the Minister intend to do about this? Is the Minister prepared to have as soon as possible an assessment in Europe of whether there is indeed dumping in the European Commission? I do international trade myself. That is also where we take action when there are steel dumping or other dumping. This is simply the deliberate disruption of Europe's aviation market and then again in a context of a perverse stimulus in a health crisis. Then travel advice. A great deal has just been said about this. I have some questions about the travel advice. These are important for international transport. A travel advice on Greece was recently given. I believe that Mr Paternotte has just said the same thing. That patchwork of travel advice does lead to indignation. Can the Minister respond to that? How do we arrive at a joint travel advice in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you. A question from Mr Van Dijk, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u92	I have another question about the safety of the people at Schiphol. Thousands of people work there, who come into contact with tens of thousands of other people every day or with all travellers. They have also expressed their concern and said: we really want to be able to be tested as soon as possible. We did talk about capacity. Should this capacity increase, does Mr Amhaouch agree with us that we should also create the possibility for them to do so at Schiphol Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u93	There are two things in one question. Do we want to make it possible for Schiphol personnel to get tested? Yes, because that's what we want for everyone. For example, for the police organisation. I read yesterday that the police organisation is the largest organisation in the Netherlands, with 60,000 employees.... is also organizing something. If you ask me if the staff at Schiphol Airport should be given priority again, my answer is no. In particular, I expect that if hundreds or thousands of people work on a particular area, there will be agreement between employers and the GGD, apparently, the responsibility lies with the GGD again and not with Schiphol about how to organise it, so that we do not have to create unnecessary bureaucracy. I would also like to hear from the cabinet how they are going to do it effectively. And again: we call this Schiphol, but for me this is equally relevant in other critical places in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u94	There is another question for you from Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u95	I had asked for attention to be paid to the stewardesses and stewards who have to deal with aggression, about people having to keep their mouth caps on and the like. Can you imagine that is also a factor that we should take into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u96	That is a difficult question, how to take account of crossing the border, going over the line, certain behaviour. You're now calling mouth caps. We have also often seen it in planes with excessive alcohol consumption, that people become aggressive and get evicted. I think you should deal with that in that line. I understand on the other hand. I spend a lot of time on the train to Limburg and then you have to wear a mouth cap for two hours. Then the conductor speaks to you from time to time: hey, that mouth cap must be high enough. I understand that sometimes that leads to irritations, but that's no excuse. We will have to keep each other sharp in this crisis. This applies to keeping away, which applies to mouth caps. And when people really cross the line, they need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u97	I get that. But I can also imagine that this is quite a complicating factor for people who have never had to deal with it so far, so that pressing for it makes the work of a stewardess more difficult. The question is whether we might be able to think about it. Perhaps we should put it to the Minister in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u98	I'll just say no, not being a Member of Parliament. Look, it's about the operation, about how an aircraft or a train works. I have the people who do that every day, the stewards and stewardesses, very high up. They are trained to deal with aggression. One time it's excessive drinking and the other time it's something completely different. This is an extra factor. I understand your point, but I think we should leave it with the companies, with the NS and with the airlines. They must find a solution to this. I'm not going to do the surgery here from the Chamber, because I'd overestimate myself if I thought I knew better than she did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u99	So I understand the CDA doesn't need to urge the minister to do that either?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u100	No, but I'm making a call here to understand how these people deal with it every day. I have the people on the floor and the people in the organizations high. They will have a solution to this. And if they think they need help from politics, then we are ready 24 hours a day to do something about it. And I assume that the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State is also ready to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u101	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Then I give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u102	Mr. Chairman. There is a large German laboratory where help has been offered a long time ago. It's just been dealt with laxly by the government. We could have increased the test capacity a long time ago. It is annoying to me, because it is about human lives and it is about large numbers of lives. I'd like to have said that anyway. There could not have been a problem with the test capacity, especially after six months. So we certainly support Mr Laçin's motion. I signed off on that motion, too. It's gonna be another collector's item, because Mr. Laçin is gonna leave us. So I'm going to put the motion on canvas. That's always nice: Mr. Laçin's final motion. But maybe some more will come. I would like to start with the question that my group chairman, Geert Wilders, has already put to the Minister for Health. He actually didn't get a good response to that, nor did he get an answer. We want passengers to be tested before they get on the plane, whether or not by quick tests. There is now a Dutch company that will deliver many rapid tests to foreign countries. I saw the best gentleman from that company on television say that I don't know how many millions of tests go abroad. But what about us? Did we call for this too? So we want passengers to be tested before they get on the plane in the country in question. That should be possible in the future, especially with those rapid tests. So I am also asking this on behalf of Mr Wilders. This may also have a positive impact on the current orange regions and red areas. After all, when people are tested and there's nothing wrong, it doesn't matter which area they come from. So this can also help to preserve our airlines and preserve the economies of countries that may now be coloured red or orange. In this way there can still be some traveler exchange. So I'd like to have a reaction to that. I would also like to express my support for the travel industry. And I also want a plan of action for that industry. So we are asking for that cover-up test policy. We also want the test street to remain open until the last flight arrives at Schiphol Airport. These are all things that we all want, so we would like reactions and commitments to that. And this is a bit of airlines bullying, I think a bit. 'Cause it's just aviation again. When I traveled by car, for example, I was completely questioned in France. People asked me what I was gonna do, what I was gonna do. My car was pulled inside out. This also happened on the way back and also in Germany. It is always said here that border controls cannot be carried out within the EU. Well, I can tell that other countries are just doing it. And it's not bad at all to do that on a random basis. We want that for other reasons too; let us be very clear about that. But the Netherlands always wants to be the best boy in the class. It is said here: it cannot be done. It's okay! Other countries are doing it too. I've been there myself. That's because I have a bit of a crook's head. I've got a carpenter's head, so I'm always screwed, including at the airports. I even have to take off my boots sometimes, and they check everything. They even ripped a heel off my boot once. By the way, there were a couple of MPs there. So I didn't bring my face like that. But I've been there. How are we gonna do that? I'd like a reaction to that, too. I would like to ask if the Minister would like to talk to the coach sector, with KNV, Royal Dutch Transport. My colleague Roy van Aalst visited a third generation company, Ter Beek Travel in Tubbergen. They're all really cool, hardworking people out there. They do not ask for money, they do not hold their hand, but they ask for solutions. They don't want generic measures, they want customization. So can the Minister talk to the coach sector? I am also asking that on behalf of my colleague Roy van Aalst. I would also have liked to have had a reply to the letter sent to the Minister of VWS, the letter of measures from the Dutch Association of Airports, the NVL, KLM, Transavia, Corendon, TUI, easyJet and BARIN. I would like solutions not only at European level, but also at global level. The aviation world is a global world. Therefore, there should preferably be a global level playing field. How is the Minister going to do that? I would like to receive a response to the letter sent by the companies I have just mentioned. Mr President, if I may, I would like to hand a letter from someone who has e-mailed me to the Minister. It's actually the first time I've done this. It is a letter from Mr Kortenhorst, Peter Kortenhorst. That man knocks at various ministries and is sent from the locker to the wall. Someone from the Ministry may be able to respond on behalf of the Minister. So I'd like to hand that letter over to her. I think this is really the first time I've done this. So if you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u103	You can do that through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u104	I hope the best man gets a reaction now. He always writes very neat, well-founded letters, other than the swear cannonade, which I often ignore. But these people just need to be heard. They're entitled to that, too. Finally, Mr. Chairman. If you'll allow me, I'd like to ask you one more thing. I would like to have examined how we can accommodate Groningen Airport Eelde and Maastricht Aachen Airport at the Schiphol Group. There's a reason I'm asking. They're getting into trouble, especially in the future. They are, after all, airports of national importance. This applies to Maastricht Aachen Airport, especially when it comes to freight, regardless of holiday traffic for the Limburgers. The same goes for Eelde, for the holiday traffic for the people from that corner and even cross-border with Germany. Think also of the university hospital in Groningen that provides a lot of organs worldwide. That's in all our interests, but they could get in trouble there. If Groningen Airport Eelde gets into trouble, then it may be that such a university hospital loses its title, regardless of the fact that the transport of organs to many countries can get into trouble. It's also about people's lives. So I'd like to get a reaction to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you, Mr. Graus. I would like to give the floor to Mr Öztürk of the DENK Group. He's the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet was afraid that corona would be imported through international travel. And what does it turn out to be? Our neighbouring countries are now even afraid that we are the corona exporters. I read that people from North and South Holland in Belgium can even get a fine of €4,000 or a prison sentence. How does the cabinet react to the fact that parts of the Netherlands are now seen as a danger? What international agreements and measures can we take to protect not only ourselves, but also our neighbours? Mr. Chairman. Several outbreaks have been reported from air travel. This was often blamed for not wearing the masks, but is it not in the overcrowded flights? The corona policy for international passenger traffic seems to be at odds with the policy that applies to other sectors. I would like to ask the Minister how she can guarantee the safety of passengers on board aircraft. I'd like to get a reaction to that. The airlines and airports use different guidelines. Those guidelines are supposedly controlled by the RIVM. I have only my doubts about the judgment of the RIVM. The European EASA Directive makes statements against current policies. On the streets we have to comply with the one-and-a-half meter rule, but the EASA Directive states that we do not have to stick to this on a full flight. Is this directive a licence for airlines to comply with the measures? According to scientific research, international flights play a central role in the corona pandemic. These investigations state that fewer passengers must be on a flight, but they turn out to be completely full. How does the Minister look at maintaining and implementing the one-and-a-half meter measure during a flight? Is it true that older aircraft, from the eighties and nineties, have no HEPA filters at all? I'd like a response. Is there now scientific evidence that these HEPA filters can actually purify air for coronaviruses? Members have also asked a number of questions about this. Can the available data on the spread of the corona virus in aircraft be made public so that scientific institutes and scientists, as well as people who really want to look at it, can use it and inform us? I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I have a direct question for the Minister. What do you think is more important: the economic interests of airlines or our public health? Just answer honestly: what is more important: economics or public health? The document that was delivered to the letter of approval for this debate is called: Civil Aviation Security Policy. Is this about the economic safety of the airlines or about the safety of our citizens? I suspect that too much account has been taken here of the interests of the large companies and the economic position of the airlines. In addition to international passenger traffic, we also have national passenger traffic. There are plenty of citizens travelling from low-risk areas to high-risk areas. Public transport is full during rush hour, because more people want to go to work, and rightly so. What measures are we taking to ensure that more people can still travel, but also that there is more room? What can the Minister do to minimise the risk of commuting? And then the scandalous action of closing the test street at Schiphol. The Minister facilitates the import of corona. She simply leaves the passengers to their own fate, just like the employees who are in daily contact with them. How can the Minister ensure that tests at Schiphol Airport are possible again, especially for travellers from at-risk areas who immediately want a test and for employees at Schiphol Airport who want to be tested quickly because of their contact with passengers, rather than waiting days for a local GGD? I am also considering a motion on this point and I think that such a motion can get broad support in this Chamber. DENK calls on the government to provide more clarity and consistency with regard to the corona measures. Equalise the corona measures for all sectors. No more preferential treatment for large companies, while the small businessman, take the taxi drivers, bus companies and other companies, suffer from it. The cabinet supports the big companies, the big agencies, with billions. Consistency, that's the only way the government can be credible. Be clear, be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u107	Thank you, Mr Öztürk. Then we came to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister is preparing for the answer in her first term. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u108	The next item is the debate on corona dissemination in relation to international passenger traffic. We've had the first term on the side of the Chamber. I would like to give the floor to our Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management for the first time on the part of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall only do it a little structured, as the Chamber is used to, in bite-ready chunks. I go from the travel advice, on which most of the questions have been asked and comments have been made, to the question of how to deal with orange areas. Then I'll say something about test stretches and testing in general. Then there are a number of issues that really concern aviation, and then there is another piece about the other modes of transport. That's kind of how I thought I'd build it up. I'll start with the travel advice. I felt the frustration among all of you: how can you prevent people from travelling to an orange area when that journey is not necessary? That starts, of course, with the travel advice of the Foreign Office. It is clear on his website that you are advised to travel only if the trip is necessary. We also keep telling them that holidays are not included. It is, of course, the responsibility of the traveller to comply with these travel advices. We try to draw attention to these travel advices in a variety of ways. We're not doing that alone. Many parties, for example the ANWB, but also the NS and the Dutch airlines, point out potential travellers on those travel advices, which can be found on the Foreign Affairs website. Fortunately, that website is consulted a lot. This is also apparent from a letter sent to your Chamber by my foreign minister yesterday. Over the past eight months, this website, which contains the travel advice, has been consulted more than 71 million times, while in 2019 it only happened just over 3 million times. The government cannot oblige travel organisations and carriers to adapt their offer or promotion, but you know that I also asked the travel industry and the airline industry through a letter to inform their travelers more actively about these travel advices. I also called on them not to promote travel to high-risk areas. Furthermore, yesterday in general, I undertook to discuss the Transport Council with your Chamber to discuss with the European Commission the promotion of travel to high-risk areas. I have promised to do the same with the Advertising Code Foundation to see if it offers a hook to do something about this. Of course, people travel not only by plane to orange areas, but also by car, by bus or by train. That has been mentioned by several members. My colleague, the Secretary of State, and I are also going to ask the parties operating in international rail and bus transport to actively inform their passengers about these travel advices and call on them not to promote travel to high-risk areas. In addition, I would like to investigate whether drivers can be informed by navigation apps and social media that they are going to or coming from an orange area on departure and return. "Of course MONO proof," let me add, because you know that it must of course be done safely. Maybe you could reach some of the drivers with that too. I don't know if it's possible, but I want to look at it, because that's something you might be actively confronted with. In short, I would very much like to see what is possible. However, as has often been said, it is ultimately the responsibility of the traveller to take this orange travel advice seriously. Before the summer, when the holiday season arrived, the Prime Minister also recommended it: go wisely on a journey. This has also been widely highlighted in several places: point of departure. With us, for example, it is at the entrance of the Ministry. Normally I never give presents, but I imagine giving this pillow to Mr. Laçin in exchange for the flashlight. He'll be able to get it coronaproof: wise to travel. I would just like to give you an example of how we are really trying to draw attention to this in all possible ways. Many of you have asked about the patchwork of travel advice. I've heard that from several quarters. You are quite right, of course: it is different in every country. In one country is red which is orange in another country. The colors are not the same, the content is not the same and whether or not areas get a color also differs. Yesterday, on 22 September, the Ministers for European Affairs in Brussels discussed in the General Affairs Council a progress report by the German Presidency on the coordination of travel restrictions. It states that the Member States have agreed on the following points. Health Organisation ECDC will be invited to provide a comprehensive set of data on the following key indicators on a weekly basis. One, the total number of reports per 100,000 inhabitants over a period of 14 days. Two, the number of tests per 100,000 inhabitants. Three, the percentage of positive tests. Member States still need to agree on the visualisation of these indicators in one or more maps. As regards communication and exchange of information between Member States and communication with the public, it is agreed that this should be done in a clear and timely manner. That is, of course, not a very shocking conclusion, but the way in which it is discussed. Member States will use the above indicators and maps to assess the epidemiological risk across the European Union while maintaining flexibility for additional national assessments. So coordination is beginning to be cautious. I think it is very important that all those three indicators, i.e. the total number of reports per 100,000 inhabitants over 14 days, the number of tests per 100,000 inhabitants and the percentage of positive tests, become the starting point. The discussion on the precise way in which risk assessment is to be assessed shall include the thresholds which are used? It is still necessary to continue. It is complicated to reach agreement on all points. But Member States confirmed to each other yesterday that they are generally willing to cooperate. They will also examine the possibility of drawing up a catalogue of common measures. Particular attention will be paid to measures which have proved to be valuable in certain Member States, such as passenger registration. Then we're talking about the Passenger Locator Form. Several of you have also drawn attention to this in the past. I think it is very good that this is now on the joint agenda. In the coming weeks, the German Presidency will continue to work with the Member States to reach agreement on the above points in the form of Council recommendations. The Netherlands has been constructive in this regard. We have always been in favour of greater coordination at European level. This applies not only to me with the fellow transport ministers. The same applies to the ministers who deal with public health or European affairs: in fact, for all the ministers concerned, the foreign ministers, not least. We will continue to work towards a common policy as much as possible. A specific question was whether I think we can only rely on passengers' own responsibility to go to destinations with orange code. That has already been mentioned by others. There are flights to orange areas, for example, aimed at freight, but also to facilitate people who have to go for a necessary journey. That starts with booking a ticket. In doing so, people themselves have a responsibility to inform themselves about the airline's cancellation policy. They may purchase a flexible ticket. Once again, a travel advice to orange area you have said it all in several ways only applies to necessary travel. These could be family conditions, funerals, humanitarian reasons or people working in healthcare. Of the Foreign Ministers, you know the list of exceptions, such as top athletes who need to be able to travel for a specific top-level competition, and so on. Asked what I am willing to do to further discourage travel to orange areas. I've just mentioned what I've done and what I'm still planning to do through navigation apps and social media. I am open to all sorts of additional matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u110	You will be interrupted by Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u111	The Minister has given a full list of what she intends to do and what has already happened. In my contribution, I have consciously said that I believe that holiday flights to code-orange areas should be banned. That goes a few steps further than what the Minister is now describing. Why am I suggesting that? Because I read that Diederik Gommers, the chairman of the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, says that the second lockdown is coming. I hear mayors saying that national measures are necessary. I see that the number of infections is increasing every day. I see the test street at Schiphol Airport is closed. In the light of the previous four points, it is not enough for the cabinet simply to warn and say that the website with advice has already been viewed 70 million times. Apparently that's not enough. Last week alone, 40,000 people went from Schiphol to code-orange areas. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what possibilities it has at national level to prevent holiday flights from the necessary flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u112	That's kind of the problem: there's never a sticker on a ticket saying "this is a holiday flight." At that time, we addressed Corendon and other travel organizations. By the way, they have handled this very well. I will come to the example of Ryanair in a moment. Or let me get right to that, because you will probably ask me how I describe it. You said all that in your own way. Let me try to catch it in one word: I think it's a bitch for Ryanair to do this. I think that's very clear. What else can I do? Can I call airlines like this one on the mat? I don't know if they're gonna be comfortable with that. I have written to them, but I do not think that Mr O'Leary, as far as I have seen him so far, will be very keen to join me at my office. However, I am open to everything we can do to discourage this further. Since yesterday's debate, we have thought creatively about what we can do. We are going to look at whether the suggestion, I believe, of Mr Paternotte on the Advertising Code of the Commission can provide some relief. I am really prepared to look at the instruments that we have within our ability to put a stop to this. But there will always be a category of travel necessary. That's why they're flying. Freight transport must also be able to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u113	I certainly agree with the latter. Necessary flights and freight flights must be able to continue. However, we see that flights are offered, indeed by Ryanair, to destinations where you may wonder if they fly there for necessary reasons. There too there will be necessary journeys, but for the majority of travellers they have booked a holiday flight. Disheartening is one thing. We certainly have to do that, as we will soon be proposing with a lot of parties. But I just want to see if we can go a step further. For me, the possibilities for the cabinet to go further if necessary are unclear, and as far as I am concerned, this time has already come. When it comes to conflict areas, we can also take action. We're in a pandemic. We are dealing with national problems, problems with testing capacity and with other issues. I have just listed them all................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to hear from the Minister what measures can be taken at national level to ban flights if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u114	Then maybe I haven't been clear enough just now. I have already said, also in connection with yesterday's debate, that I am prepared to talk to the European Commission. I might have been able to tell you a little bit more. We are dealing here with European laws and regulations. We discussed anti-dumping measures yesterday. That is what you have been talking about in the debate today, I believe. The price itself is of course different from that of flights to these areas, but these are both points I would like to discuss with the European Commission and the other Member States in order to see what is possible within the framework of European legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u115	A question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u116	Actually, of course, it starts with recognizing that we have a problem. I hear from the minister that she wrote everyone a letter. She wrote, "Don't go promoting those holiday trips." That's it. Then last week we had 40,000 travellers from orange areas. There are still active holidays offered to Corona Roja in the Canary Islands. Then the question is: does this minister recognise that we have a problem, that the policy that is now there is as leaky as a basket and that there just needs to be a shovel on top? That she doesn't have all the answers now, I understand, but come up with a plan very quickly with what is possible and not just to Europe. Then we know that we are already far and deep in a second wave before there is a policy at last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u117	Of all those people on all those flights that are still going, we do not know what their travel motives were. There's a part of the transfer passengers. Maybe there are Spaniards and Greeks going back home. We don't know. There are people who go because of family conditions. There are people who come under different categories of exception, but I agree with you that anyone who goes for a holiday, whether or not lured by a low price or not even a price of an airline, there is too much. So I would like to work with colleagues in the cabinet to see what I can do about it in the Netherlands by drawing even more attention to it. I would also like to return to this issue with the European colleagues and the European Commission to see what we can do together at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u118	Of the 40,000 passengers, some will make a necessary journey. But holiday trips to Corona Roja are simply unnecessary trips. Then it is not about 'too much', but about structural policy that is as leaky as a basket. We've let that pass for two months now, the whole summer vacation. Personally, I think that's a real shame. I am pleased that the Minister is now seeing the seriousness of this situation and says that she is indeed looking for opportunities with her colleagues. Then I would very much like to hear from her whether she is prepared to look at hard agreements, not just a letter, but hard agreements with the travel industry that there is no advertising for those holidays and that there are no stuns or offers. In addition, if you book a trip, you should immediately see a pop-up with the clear question of whether this is a necessary journey and whether you are aware that this is a destination where only a necessary journey goes and that you have to check that you take it. There are, of course, many measures that we can take together. Why don't we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u119	I believe that a great many measures are being worked on. It's very complicated, because, again, you can't look into someone's head if he's in good faith or not that consideration. That's uncheckable. We're talking to the travel agencies. There are a lot of people who also went on holiday by car to France, Spain. Many did so in good faith, because their area was still yellow then and turned orange afterwards. Of course, it's just incredibly complicated. After all, people have to take their own responsibility. The Dutch also showed that otherwise we wouldn't have been able to control it that first time, too, that the vast majority can handle it quite responsibly. We need to hold on to that. We must continue to appeal to this, because we cannot force everyone to do it 100% in accordance with the rules. If they don't, we can't force them to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u120	The Minister now outlines it as if it were a question of banning everything or leaving it entirely to its own responsibility. That's what we're doing now. That's what got us where we are right now. We were at a point where we had completely reduced it. The figures show that a significant proportion of travel is from abroad. We've just let this slip through our fingers for the past two months. The first step is for the Minister to acknowledge that we have pursued a policy that has taken far too many trips to orange areas. The second step is that we're going to work like hell on closing those holes. I hope that this debate will bring that change of heart, but I am not quite sure yet. I therefore ask the Minister once again whether she recognizes that it does not work if it is left to people's own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u121	As I said later, it is an en-en policy. It's a start. In the end, an individual always has to make the following assessment: do I stick to the rules or not? That's what it's all about. We can never get into that. There's no way to prevent that from happening one hundred percent. As a government, we can facilitate and draw people's attention to it. We can ensure that there is adequate information on the website and that you can take note of the situation anywhere. I very much agree with your point on European coordination. The Netherlands has always argued in favour of this. I was pleased that my German colleague, Mr Scheuer, took a very good initiative in this respect under the German Presidency. Yesterday steps were taken again with the three criteria. We assume that a passer locator form will be looked at together. We've already put in a health statement. For example, we do not have such an explanation for people entering by train, bus or car. We need to talk about whether this kind of thing might help. They're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u122	The Minister says, "I think it's a lot of what Ryanair does." Of course, it's not just Ryanair. There are also other companies, such as Vueling, that just put on the internet that you can fly cheaply from Amsterdam to Valencia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u123	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u124	In the end, the Minister quickly concludes that its instruments are limited. I think there's also something else possible. I understand the Minister says, "Mr. O'Leary won't come if I invite him." But let's not do this in that somewhat powerless way, because people from Ryanair do come to the ministry regularly. That company flies at several Dutch airports. Are you prepared to call on the people who have come before, so that you can explain to that company where we draw the line? When a few well-known Dutchmen said "I'm out of it," half the cabinet and the entire House of Representatives fell over them. You were right to do that. You can see that this has an impact. Also Famke Louise now says, "I'll be back in the game." Of course, we also want the travel organisations to take responsibility. You have to make them very clear how we look at it and that we look for every means to prevent them from showing this kind of behavior, like the one-plus-one-free offers to corona fireplaces. Is the Minister prepared to call on the Dutch representatives of all these airlines here? I think this signal is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u125	I can reassure Mr Paternotte in that. Anyone who relates to us from one of these branches, whether in the Ministry or elsewhere, we will of course appeal to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u126	Thank you for that commitment. Secondly, Ryanair is Europe's largest airline. Here too, we have a European interest. We do have a European Commission. I imagine Mr O'Leary can afford not to come to The Hague, but of course he cannot afford not to speak to the European Commission. Would you also agree with your colleagues here, whether it is with Mrs Vestager or with the Commissioner for Transport, that the company should be called upon to show totally irresponsible behaviour in the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u127	As Mr Paternotte himself points out, this will not be confined to that one company. Yesterday I promised you in the AO on the Transport Council that I would like to address my European colleagues both on the dumping aspect of these prices and on encouraging them to go to orange areas for non-necessary travel. In the Council, of course, I will address Commissioner Vălean. She will, of course, also pass that on to Mr Vestager and, if necessary, I can also call Mr Vestager myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u128	I want to ask you something else, but first I have a follow-up question about Ryanair. What are to an extreme extent further possibilities to actually bind these types of companies or to impose bans if these companies continue to exhibit this type of behaviour, while the number of infections and the consequences of corona are increasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u129	I cannot see which instruments might still be in place at European level. There is anti-dumping regulation. In the past this has been used towards the steel industry. As far as the travel industry is concerned, that has not yet happened to my knowledge, but we will have to look into it. The specialists will have to see if anything is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u130	Is the Minister prepared, if she does that reconnaissance, to let the Chamber know by letter? So that we also know, apart from calling companies... Indeed, in the Chamber, we have often been a kind of powerless vis-à-vis Ryanair, also with regard to how they dealt with staff. Then often the conclusion is: we address them. But certainly this top guy from Ryanair actually has.. how do I say that neatly.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We can worry about that, we can accept motions with majorities, but they don't care about that. So I think we should go a step further at some point, especially when it comes to our health. Anyway, apart from that, I came here for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u131	That was whether I wanted to inform the Chamber about that. I'll take you back to your question. I understand, of course, that your Chamber wants to know what answers I will get, and I will, of course, send it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u132	Thank you for that. My question is actually about travel advice. I have had to read Mr Blok's letter a few times. Sometimes you have easy letters and sometimes you have complicated letters. How is such a travel advice put together? It is good, whatever the Minister says, that there is an attempt in Europe to obtain clarity in this, on the basis of fourteen days, on the number of infections per 100,000 people and on the number of tests. However, as I read it, this is always related to the risk of contamination in its own country. The degree of contagion in our own country is therefore a leading factor in this respect. Why is it not chosen to look at an average number of infections across Europe? That is the same for every country. For example, you go at 10 or 15 per 100,000 on orange, underneath you are still yellow and above that height you go to red. I believe that, despite European cooperation, it can still be quite different, and that is where inequality is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u133	That is why I was glad that I could at least say that yesterday it was agreed at the Council that these three measures should be taken. There is still a need to discuss what level of action you are going to take, but of course it starts with the fact that ECDC can produce these three data per Member State every week. Then it has been mapped out by Member State, so that we all assume the same data. This is a first step and there will be further discussions in the near future in order to reach thresholds together. I very much agree with you that this would be a very welcome development, which could give a lot of clarity. Moreover, this could possibly also be a solution to the customization of the various Greek islands. Many Members of Parliament have asked for this. You also mentioned the example of the various Greek islands, and I believe that Mr Amhaouch too. If something is going on in Crete, it does not have any direct consequences for Corfu. I'm just saying. It was said that this type of regional customization should be possible. That should be able to get a place in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u134	I assume that we can intervene here more broadly than those four questions in first term Chamber, given the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u135	I also note that the Minister is only halfway through her first block of four. I therefore propose that we set the number of questions to six for clarity for Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u136	I'm walking to this microphone. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to close the point about Ryanair, because there is a commitment from the Minister. She says: I'm gonna work on that in Europe, I'm gonna see what's possible, and when the people of Ryanair are here at the Ministry, we're gonna talk to them. However, I would very much like the Minister, in the Netherlands too, to have lawyers, perhaps by the national attorney, really explore what is possible under the current Dutch laws and regulations, to tackle this type of thing with a totally reprehensible and irresponsible incentive from travel to high-risk areas. There are several legal options for this and I would like the Minister to undertake that exploration within the current Dutch laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u137	I think I have just indicated that I would like to see what I can do within the Netherlands and that I would also like to ask what is possible at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u138	I want to know if the Minister is going to come back to the question of conscience that I have asked: how does the Minister look back on choices made and what else would she do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u139	I think that, quite frankly, is a little early, because we are still in the middle of it and we are so busy every day trying to make progress. You just asked me a lot of questions with which I work with all my people in the ministry. I'd like to look back and reconsider everything, but at the moment we've hopefully been able to put it behind us. At the moment, I still have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u140	Then I'll try one more thing. I started by saying: we had a fantastic summer; actually we didn't have to go to Spain, Greece and you name it. Yet we opened all the gates again by saying: everyone can travel again. We also read messages like: For Christ's sake, all suitcases of three planes arrive at one band. Shouldn't we have just said: this year we're not doing the summer vacation? Is that even considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u141	Of course, that's what we've been looking at. During the last press conference for the summer, the Prime Minister didn't say anything for nothing: point to travel. That's what it said on the pillow that was there. Then we also pointed out to people that they had to think carefully, because you didn't know if the situation would stay the way it was. We said: you take a risk, even if you go to a yellow area outside the Netherlands, because you never know if it will stay that way. That was actually communicated at the time. We have also seen that a lot of people have stayed in the Netherlands for their holidays. I've been able to see for myself that a lot of people have done that to me. And then you are indeed happy with a beautiful summer, although... There are also spokesmen's water in the hall and that summer due to the drought also had a different side, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u142	I can confirm that Texel has been incredibly busy this summer. A lot of people have enjoyed there and they can always do so. My question is about the policy of discouragement. Indeed, it is not fair to conduct the discussion in black and white, because it cannot be completely closed. We always need to travel, but at the same time we do not want mass travel to high-risk areas. That is likely to happen now, see the number of people leaving for these areas. Could the Minister, perhaps together with the Foreign Minister, tell us what else she can do to inform and discourage people? If so, can she also inform the Chamber? I think there is some discomfort about that here too, because the feeling is that too little is actually happening. Can the Minister look again with other cabinet members at what is possible to reassure us that the maximum is being done to really discourage people? People must, of course, retain the opportunity to make their own choices, but we must encourage people not to go, because it is storming outside and the corona contamination is increasing. I really think it is of the utmost importance that the cabinet should be able to radiate it and adopt a new package of measures in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u143	I fully agree with Mr Van Dijk's proposal to look at it again. With the autumn holidays approaching, we can see again how we can make people as clear as possible that they really shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u144	I think we agree on the intentions and the Minister shares the concerns that many members of the Chamber also express. But now that I've had it settled, I don't think the Minister mentions one instrument she already has. Last March, the Minister imposed a flight ban on Italy and a week later also on Spain and Austria. That was at the beginning of the first wave. We are now at the beginning of the second wave. My first question is: when will the Minister take back that flight ban and say 'that's what we need in the context of public health'? That is why she took that measure at the time. If the Minister finds that the measures taken by the travel sector or by a company such as Ryanair are so far out of the question that people are tempted to take holiday trips to a fireplace with tens of thousands of people a week, does she have this instrument behind her? Or has she deliberately not mentioned it so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u145	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. By the way, I do indeed set them up, but only on the advice of the VWS Minister, who does so again on the basis of the opinions of RIVM and OMT. But if there is another reason for this, then these flight bans can be put back in place as quickly as they were in the spring. One more question has been asked as to whether it should not be easier to cancel in aviation, especially when you get complaints. Before the summer, I informed you in a letter about the conditions of airlines if they want to rebook or cancel passengers. The risk of illness is a personal risk and in order to reduce that risk, passengers may purchase a flexible ticket or take out insurance. Of course, here too, the rule of taking your own responsibility applies: if you have complaints, don't go traveling. When you travel by plane, you have to fill out a health statement. Of course, you always have to do that truthfully, otherwise you will be punishable because you commit falsehood in writing. Also for the other modes of transport, you should not travel if you have complaints. Let's see. We've already talked about Wis on a trip. Mr Dijkstra asked about the idea of a voucher bank of the ANVR. That is indeed a proposal from the travel industry to be able to repay passengers in the possession of a voucher. The Ministry of EZK is in talks with the ANVR and the SGR. Paying back a voucher is in itself separate from the decision of people to cancel their trip. Of course, it is also independent of passengers' rights to receive a voucher. In any case, the conditions of the travel organisation or the airline always apply. But this is what is being looked at and that is what the Ministry of EZK is doing. Then Mrs Kröger asked which country is currently finding infections and how many flights are going there. The RIVM indicates that in the Netherlands out of the hundreds of contacts investigated in the context of aircraft contact research, only a few persons may have been infected in the aircraft, and this is not certain to say. These people may also have been infected at the airport or shortly before departure or shortly after arrival. The countries from which these infections have been detected are not known. Based on source and contact research, the GGD might be able to figure this out, but it is not known now. It's just a few cases. Mr. Chairman. That's it about the travel advice. Then I'll continue testing. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. As far as the test street is concerned, of course, it is clear that everyone would have preferred there to be sufficient capacity. I agree with that. We would have liked that situation to be different, so we didn't have any capacity problems. But you have all said that, given the fact that there is a capacity problem, priority must be given to people with complaints, and also to those in the vital professions, to those in the front lines, as several of you have said. The cabinet is working hard to resolve these capacity problems as quickly as possible. All this has been discussed in the debate on Tuesday. I have little to add to that. I have been asked if I am willing to open another test street, possibly also in Eindhoven and Rotterdam. The test street started at Schiphol Airport in August. The VWS Minister set up a pilot there to see what effect the testing of travellers without complaints is going to have, because that is what this is all about, the so-called asymptomatic tests. My colleague from VWS is evaluating that pilot right now. On the basis of that evaluation, the availability of test capacity at that time and, where appropriate, the employability of innovative tests, he will consider how to proceed with the testing of incoming passengers at airports and elsewhere. This also applies to the consideration of how to deal with airport staff. My colleague from VWS has indicated that he expects to be able to inform you about this in October. I think he has already reported that in the debate on Tuesday. I have also been told that he will also include the proposals made by Mrs Kröger in the letter on this subject. Yes, I see Mr Paternotte standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u146	I see him, too. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u147	This isn't gonna work. Now the Minister says that a pilot was set up in August in search of how asymptomatic testing works. I didn't ask for nothing: when was that called a pilot? What can we derive from that? Because it was called a pilot when the test street closed. Minister De Jonge said we're going to test everyone. He's described it all visually: you arrive at the gate; there's a bunch of people who take you to the test street; that's what we're going to do with everyone. That's what was said. This story of the trial... The Minister really needs to make it clear what this is about, for example by sending us the test setup, because I do not have the idea that that was originally the intention. If it's a trial... Look at Germany. That's where they're doing this to everyone already. They've been doing that for two months. You can see the results: more positive tests among travellers, at service stations, at airports, than average among Germans. So that test is clear: yes, asymptomatic testing is useful, because that actually prevents contamination in the population. There is no need for the Minister to make an entire evaluation which will lead to something in October. Mr. Chairman. I would really like to hear the Minister's explanation: where should we deduce that this was a trial? 'Cause the only time the minister said that was when she shut down the test street. If we didn't have the capacity, say so, but don't think afterwards that it's a test it never was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u148	I will convey to you the information from the VWS colleague on the trial, that he is now evaluating it and that he is going to inform you about it in the course of October. It's not my intention. It's not my trial. The VWS Minister states that he completed the evaluation in October and will inform you about it. I suppose you can find all that in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u149	Mr President, on a point of order. It has been said in the course of the work that we want to ask questions in this debate on this subject, which the cabinet is about its own delegation, but that we must be able to ask these questions, and that the VWS Minister should be there if we cannot ask these questions without him. I am now asking the questions: can we have the test set-up and from what can we conclude that it was a test? The Minister says: yes, then you must be with my colleague. I can't do that. So I'd still like answers to the questions. What can we infer from the fact that the cabinet referred to this as a trial rather than at the time that the test street was closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u150	I can try to get a response from Mr VWS for the second time, but I cannot do more than refer you to the answer I can give, namely that he will inform you about this in October. If it wasn't a trial, I wouldn't know what he's evaluating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u151	The question is clear and the Minister will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u152	I don't know exactly where the minister is in the block, but this fits in with this. I'm very interested in the evaluation of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u153	I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u154	We've just started the block of test streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u155	Then I'll just wait a minute. Maybe I'll come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u156	It could just be that there's still some answers, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u157	I was still on my first petal of a pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u158	Please continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u159	In Germany, travellers from a risk area must submit a negative covid test not older than 48 hours or be tested within 72 hours in Germany. You can do that at the airports or at a local health authority. Until 15 September last, travellers from at-risk areas could be tested free of charge. This has come to an end. Now people have to pay for it. If anyone tests negative, the traveler can get out of self-quarantine. My colleague from VWS also knows that the dogs are used in Finland. I shall, of course, look directly at Mr Graus, despite the fact that others of you have mentioned this. I'd seen that news report come by myself. I thought it happened earlier in Israel at an airport. There are also drug dogs and money dogs at Schiphol Airport. So if this is a promising initiative, I also read the reports that it could be even more accurate than the PCR tests.Of course, the colleague of VWS would like to continue with this, but also this is something that we always want to have validated first and get expert advice on. But at VWS everything is really included, so also this type of tests and all other forms of quick tests and innovative tests. This initiative with dogs will therefore certainly be taken into account. How do you mitigate the risks when people have traveled to an orange area? Several measures have, of course, been taken in the aviation sector. Think of information: do not go to an orange area; do not go if you have complaints. Of course, the visual health check also applies when you check in and enter the plane. On board there is a combination of measures. I mention the non-medical mouth caps, which are mandatory, and the HEPA filter, which I will come back to later in the aviation block. Of course there is the adequate cleaning, disinfection in the plane and there are the advice for the home quarantine. Is there any sighting of any foreign contaminations? What means of transport do these people travel through? I just said something about that. In recent weeks, the percentage has fallen sharply. In the past week, around 3% of positive COOVID-19 cases had been abroad in the previous 14 days. So these people had a travel history, as was just asked. So of all the positively tested corona cases, only 3% had a travel history of the past 14 days. Since 6 July, that percentage has been on average 12%, but in recent weeks it has become very much less. RIVM does not keep track of the means of transport people have travelled with. We cannot therefore find out whether that was by plane, boat, train, bus or car. From source and contact research, VWS occasionally received information about specific trips. So there is no report I can send you on this, because it simply is not there, by modality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u160	There's a question from Mr. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u161	This is an important point in the debate, I think. 3% of the people who have been tested... No, of the tests is 3%...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u162	We are talking about 3% of the positive-tested people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u163	3% of the positive-tested people. I understand that I have had some e-mails about this, and that half of them came from countries such as Germany, Belgium and France, which are also easily accessible by car or train.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u164	So that's not exactly recorded. So I cannot report whether that has been car passengers from France, air passengers from southern Spain or train passengers from Italy and so on. We don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u165	So it is up to ourselves to judge whether that is a lot or not. At least we want it to be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u166	I think it makes it clear to us once again that it is important to take all appropriate precautions in all forms of transport. Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u167	There is another question from Mr Öztürk on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u168	The minister says it's not registered. That's kind of weird. Surely we need data to implement policies properly and to find solutions for the coronavirus? I had also asked if those available data could be made public. But I really can't imagine the Netherlands as a research country not registering this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u169	Yeah, I can't make it prettier than it is. This is the information I have. Occasionally there is something in between which can be traced to a certain form of transport, but a positive tested corona case is not... It's a big deal if we know if there has been a travel history, so whether someone has been abroad in the fourteen days before. No request shall be made for the means of transport by which it has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u170	If we kept the test street on Schiphol, we would know whether there are from the other countries where the number of corona infections is high corona patients or people who are positive come to the Netherlands. So the moment you take that test street away, you know less. Are you in favour of having the available data and that these questions should be asked if we are to have a good policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u171	That is, of course, very difficult. By the way, that test street at Schiphol Airport was voluntary, so you don't know exactly what's going on. Of course, it's very complicated, because a lot of people just cross the border by car. Yeah, and then we don't know where they come from or whether they might or may not have been in an orange region in France. None of that the G.D.D. can keep up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u172	I understand that 40,000 people from orange regions came by plane to the Netherlands, who then go to work in health care, who then go to work with the police, who then go to work in education or somewhere else. So from those of the 40,000 who volunteer, could we still have data that we can do something with? Shouldn't you be working on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u173	I think it's a question to RIVM at all. First, we have to wait for the evaluation of the test at Schiphol Airport to see if there is any added value in that. Because that was the question of whether it has added value to asymptomatic testing. If there is a positive answer to that, I think the follow-up question could be whether it makes sense to register all kinds of other aspects. I would like to convey the question as to whether they can then look into it, whether it makes sense to record all kinds of other characteristics of these journeys. It's gonna be pretty easy at Schiphol Airport, 'cause those people are already coming by plane. But to what extent that has added value, I cannot estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u174	Still, let's get back to the test streets. When, on 25 August, the Minister, who is present at this debate and is therefore able to give the answers, wrote to the Chamber, she wrote that passengers at Schiphol Airport could be tested immediately and that other airports would follow at a later date. That was the bet. Was the Minister aware at that time that this was actually a test which had to be evaluated first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u175	I just got the information from my colleague from VWS that he was going to start at Schiphol Airport and that this could possibly be extended to other airports. Well, that's still the case. Only because of the problems with the capacity we have now had to be stopped anyway. Because you have all discussed this on Tuesday, because the priority is now elsewhere, namely those who have complaints and not asymptomatic testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u176	This is kind of amazing, isn't it? Because that test street had to be stopped because of deficits............................................................................................................................................... So my question is whether the Minister when she informed the Chamber on 25 August that it was possible to test at Schiphol Airport was not aware that it was actually a test from the Minister of VWS that had to be evaluated anyway. Wasn't the minister aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u177	I say by heart that it was intended that this test should have been continued until 1 October. I should check that date, but I think that was originally the intention and was said because of the capacity: we stop now, because the priority is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u178	But why doesn't it say so in that letter? Why, then, was it outlined in that letter of inquiry, as part of the measures in the air transport sector to reduce the risk of covidisation, that I quote again, people could be tested at Schiphol Airport and that other airports would follow at a later date? Well, then the Chamber got the impression that this was just the plan with those test streets, right? There's never been any mention of a trial in there, is there? So again the question whether the Minister was not aware that her colleague intended it as a test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u179	I simply noted that it was going to start that period and that it was going to be possible to extend it. I've just waited and watched how I could facilitate that. 'Cause I'm not in charge of that test policy. That's up to the U.S. Secretary of State. VWS did that in consultation with Schiphol. The only thing we are looking at then is whether it has any aviation-related consequences. Well, there weren't basically any. So that is further a matter of the GGD, Schiphol and the Minister of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u180	We will come back to this point in the second term on the basis of a question from Mr Paternotte. I'm going to see Mr. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u181	I think closing the test street has to do with scarcity as well. And whether we want it or not, that scarcity is just a fact. You have to use the tests where they have the most effect. I took the G.D.D.'s figures for a while. Of these positively tested people, 3% have a travel history that goes back 14 days. So it could very well be that nothing was going on when they arrived, and that later, in the course of those fourteen days, they got corona, when they were already at home or somewhere else; in a pub, at school, at work. So that's also a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u182	That was the problem I just outlined of those few cases that, according to that travel history, have been on the plane. Even then, you don't know if they got anything on the plane, or shortly after, or shortly before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u183	'Cause we're talking about 14 days. I believe you're about to notice the effect of a corona infection after a day or four. So 14 days is a little long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u184	You don't have to. That is why the quarantine period is of course longer, because this can never be caught exactly one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u185	We have all seen that due to capacity problems that test street is closed. That's extremely annoying, but say so. The pain is that it is said: it was a trial. The Minister now clearly states that she was also not aware of the fact that the Minister of VWS intended this as a test. I would ask you to ask your colleague to send the trial design to the Chamber and also to clarify what we can now conclude that the Minister meant it as a test. Because I haven't seen anything like that yet, except that this minister says: he's evaluating now. Evaluating is what you do afterwards. From what should we deduce that it was announced as a trial? And can we have the test setup?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u186	I have just told you about this trial design: I will ask the Minister of the United States of America. But I'm assuming that if he sends you the evaluation, this will be part of that. Then you can see how it's built up. Of course, the fact that it was a test was already shown by the fact that no one knew whether asymptomatic tests had added value. It was precisely the intention to answer that question. We were going to do asymptomatic tests at Schiphol Airport to see if that has any added value. You can call it a trial or an investigation, but it's about trying something new and trying to figure it out. You're gonna try it out somewhere. At first you do so at Schiphol Airport, with the possibility to do it elsewhere later. That's how I understood it, and that's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u187	I would really like to warn the Minister: do not go along with the idea of apologizing for something that simply cannot be explained. It is said that we still have to see if it works. They didn't say that at the time. It was a measure that was announced, regardless of its effect. And when we talk about whether it is useful: Germany has now taken hundreds of thousands of tests on passengers, at service stations, at airports. And what do you see in Germany in those numbers? You can see that the probability of these people carrying the virus is a third higher compared to the average test result in Germany. And the average test is taken by people who go to a test street because they have complaints. So you see that the chance that travellers who are asymptomaticly tested carry the virus is even greater than the chance that people who report with complaints carry the virus. Doesn't that make it very clear that this is useful? Because the information that comes from those hundreds of thousands of tests in Germany seems a little more useful information than the information that comes from that little test street we had at Schiphol Airport for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u188	But when people started doing this in Germany, they didn't know that in advance either, did they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u189	There is a question from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u190	Yes, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u191	You will soon hear the results of the Dutch tests from colleague De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u192	That's what we're gonna hear. That's what we're gonna agree on. To be honest, I think this is distracting from the discussion about the test street itself. It's all about whether it was a trial, yes or no. It was a measure. I cannot really add anything to what Mr Paternotte said about this. It has been announced as a measure. It was called a test when the test street closed. And now the Minister of IenW is trying to do a whole dance around it. Just don't let them do that. Let's just call it what it is: it was a measure. The test street is closed, because of scarcity or whatever. And after that, it's just been called a trial. And I can guarantee Mr Paternotte here: there is no trial design at all, because it has never been a trial. But let the Minister find out, I'd say. I'd like to go back to the usefulness of that test street at Schiphol. Now the appearance is awakened: it is only 3%, and there may be something else going on, and it goes back 14 days. I know that a few weeks ago, of the positive testeds, 25% had been traveling. That percentage may have fallen now, and it may rise again in a few days' time. The point is that we have a second wave here and we have a shortage of capacity. That needs to be resolved very quickly. The Schiphol workers are also very concerned because they are in contact day in and day out with people who come from code-orange areas and sometimes have no protective equipment on them. That needs to be solved when the test street at Schiphol Airport is back active. I hope that that will be as soon as possible, but does the Minister agree with me that also the Schiphol workers, who are today, day in, day out, a vital profession, huh? That risk must be able to be tested there if they have complaints?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u193	I don't think employees at Schiphol should go to work if they have complaints, because you shouldn't. That applies to every employee. As well as any police officer, I believe that Mr Amhaouch mentioned that example, and every healthcare worker should be able to be tested if they have complaints, every employee at Schiphol Airport should be able to do so. Anyone who has complaints must be able to be tested. Whether this can be facilitated at Schiphol Airport so that they do not first come into contact with colleagues or pass large groups of passengers through an departure hall or whatever, I leave it to the local GGD. I leave that kind of practical effects to the local GGD. But, of course, employees in vital professions should also be able to be tested if they have had complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u194	I don't want to have a social affairs debate here, but those Schiphol employees are being forced to come to work. I also have this discussion with Mr Amhaouch a great many times. Those employees often have flex contracts. There's a lot of threats about "if you don't come today, you won't have a job tomorrow." Then make that choice to work or not. But I don't want to have that discussion with this minister. I hear the Minister also thinks that these people should also be tested. Let's take that as a starting point. I hope we can find each other in there. I also hope that this test street will be active again very soon. Then let's call together to the local GGD to test those workers there as well. Then we can arrange it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u195	One more time: you want everyone to be tested with complaints, and the people in the vital professions at all. A lot of people who work at Schiphol Airport can be counted among the vital professions, if only for the cargo and the necessary journeys that must be able to continue. Think about air traffic control and so on. All of that has to go on, so these people need to be tested. Whether that's at Schiphol or right next to it, it doesn't matter, they need to be tested. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u196	I would like to point out that everything has been a trial. Since the outbreak of corona, everything has been a trial. Everything. The vaccine that is coming is also a test, because no one knows what the long-term consequences are. They're all tasting, tasting, tasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u197	In that sense, I can only underline that. No one has the silver bullet to solve this immediately; I agree with Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u198	Mrs Van Brenk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u199	Still a try. I share Mr Paternotte's view of D66. I also had a lot of trouble with the fact that the test street was so limited open. It was just open during office hours, when we know that planes come in late at night. If that test street is to be reopened, I believe that this whole committee would like to see this done, then I assume that the Minister will insist that it be open at any time that an aircraft arrives. Can we at least agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u200	I refer to the evaluation that Mr De Jonge is going to come with. This should show exactly what the results of the test street at Schiphol Airport are. If it shows that there is added value and if the test capacity problems have been solved, then I would not know why Mr De Jonge would not want to scale it up. But then, of course, we should also look at what that means for stations and for all kinds of places. Several of your colleagues have also spoken about this. If you had ample test capacity, you might have more places where it might be useful or worth a try,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u201	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u202	I will stay with Mrs Van Brenk for a moment, because she asked if waste water is being tested at Schiphol Airport and what the picture is. Schiphol's sewer water has been tested weekly since mid-February. It also contains the waste water from aircraft. Since March, coronavirus particles have been detected in almost all of these samples. There's no trace of the source of those virus particles. That could be anyone at Schiphol or those planes. I understand from my fellow Minister of VWS that it is technically possible to sample and analyse aircraft waste water separately, but he also indicates that this would cost an enormous amount of testing capacity from the GGD. Given the current situation with regard to test capacity, this is not the priority at the moment. Then you asked about the health statement at Eindhoven, which is only checked on a random basis. Let me say first of all that every passenger aged 13 years or older must have a health certificate when flying to or from the Netherlands. This also applies to and from Eindhoven Airport. The Dutch airlines will start with a digital health statement in the coming weeks as part of the check-in process. For travellers travelling with a Dutch airline, you will only receive a boarding pass if that statement is completed. That's a step that you can take in the digital process a little easier. For the airlines that continue to operate with a paper health certificate, the random check will continue, including at Eindhoven Airport. These controls were partly carried out by the security region and partly by the airport itself. Then there's the question of whether that's gonna work. In any case, it contributes to the awareness of people, by having the question of conscience again whether they can really fill in that they have no complaints. Again, it's a confirmation, so you can also be held to it later. Then there was a request for the recently published American CDC studies on the risk of contagion on board aircraft. These investigations are based on the period from January to March. That is the period before the aviation sector, on the advice of the WHO, ECDC and RIVM, has taken action, as I informed your Chamber on 15 June. I also rely on the expertise of the experts. They state that measures such as triage, mouth caps, health statement and the unique ventilation and filtering system may reduce the risk of contamination on board. In addition, I have just informed you that RIVM has investigated hundreds of contacts and that only a few people may have been infected on the plane, but that that is absolutely not certain. Then on the picture of which mode of transport is the safest or in which the risks are greatest. There is not enough data available to make a really good comparison. We just don't know yet. Then I'll come to specifically the aviation sector. You'd actually think we were talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u203	On the previous point, a question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u204	The Minister states that she does not know specifically which modes of transport contribute. If we now look at the travel by plane, train, bus or the FlixBus, we can find those figures in 2019. Do you have any figures on how large these flows are in 2020? Last year there were about 4 million international train passengers. I believe the FlixBus carried 3 million passengers. Most of it is international. We'll have the winter sports in a minute. 85% go by car to winter sports. How do these figures develop for 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u205	We get regular numbers in the Ministry about how things are going right now. In aviation, the number of flights has fallen dramatically, but the number of passengers is much higher. There are a lot of planes in which there are very few passengers. I will see if I can send you an overview of what has happened, including in public transport and by road. I'll see if we have any information we can send.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u206	Then you go to the block of aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u207	Yes. Safety is, of course, also paramount in aviation. Aviation is international and operates on the basis of international guidelines. At the request of the Cabinet, RIVM gave advice on the safety on board aircraft related to COOVID-19. We also asked RIVM to give advice on the protocols of the Dutch airports and airlines. Those protocols were drawn up on the basis of the International EASA and ICAO Directives. Information is being provided. We've already talked about the health statement, the non-medical mouth caps. What do I know about the ventilation on airplanes? I've been asked a few questions about that. The air change in an airplane is of such a level that the air is refreshed every three minutes. We talked about the vertical, downward-facing airflow along the passengers. Let me take a look at this: I've actually shared all this with you before. Questions have been asked about the NLR research. Both the NLR and the RIVM started work at the beginning of July on the design of the research that you requested. The Chamber received a first interim report at the beginning of September. I understand you were disappointed at the extent of the investigation. RIVM and NLR give a next step to come in mid-October, with subsequent research results. Here, too, I rely on the expertise of the NLR and RIVM. These institutes have indicated that the complexity and uniqueness of this research, such as taking measurements on board aircraft and releasing scenarios, mean that this research, like similar scientific studies, cannot be completed within a few weeks. I understand very well the desire to get research results quickly, but I also think it wise that they should be able to follow their careful and scientifically sound process, and I also attach great importance to that. I believe that the proposed approach and planning have struck a good balance. I think these institutions are to be praised now that they want to provide you with a separate report in October, to meet you. Mr Öztürk has asked another question about older aircraft that would not have that. I don't see him right now, but I've already sent the Chamber the NLR's previous investigation, which showed that it's highly likely that 99.1% of the aircraft that landed in 2019 had a HEPA filter on board. This does not mean that there is no HEPA filter for the remaining 0.9% of the aircraft, but the NLR was unable to find out exactly. However, we have been able to find out that all Dutch airlines are flying aircraft with HEPA filters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u208	This leads to a question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u209	Is the information true that the eighties and nineties planes don't have those HEPA filters? Schiphol is also a hub. So there are a lot of planes coming to the Netherlands. Can the Minister mention the percentage of aircraft that doesn't have it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u210	Well, I just mentioned that. 99.1% of the aircraft landed at Schiphol Airport had a HEPA filter. The rest, the 0.9%, might have, but they couldn't figure it out. So it's a very small number. Of course, there will be historical planes that they are not in, but these are not the ones that the commercial flights at Schiphol Airport are now using. Then they asked for a reflection on the study of the twelve people on a flight from London to Hanoi. The answer to that is actually the same as the one I have just given in a general sense. The relevant flight from London to Hanoi took place on 2 March of this year. The passenger in question was infected by her sister and boarded the plane with complaints. During that flight the passengers could still move freely and were not obliged to wear masks. So that is not representative of the situation we have now. Then there is Mrs Van Brenn, on the staff who have to act in the enforcement of the aircraft. At the airport itself, boas are initially enforcing. If necessary, the Royal Marechaussee will also be involved. In particular, the pilot-in-command may maintain on board. Failure to comply with the rules results in a criminal offence. This applies on board Dutch aircraft, even when flying in foreign airspace. The commander shall remain competent to do so. The Dutch airlines have procedures, which are also based on EASA and ICAO directives, for dealing with these so-called unruly passers-by. The staff is also regularly trained in it. Then you asked another question about Lelystad Airport. We have talked about this recently, and I think it was during Question Time. For the cabinet, the main starting point is that air traffic at Schiphol Airport contributes as much as possible to the hub function that makes Schiphol directly and indirectly so important for the Dutch economy. For that, it remains essential to allow as many of those typical holiday flights as possible to fly from Lelystad. That point of departure remains unchanged. I have nothing to add to that at the moment; that would be a repeat of it. Mr Graus asks: are you prepared to support Groningen Airport Eelde quickly? At Eelde there is currently a route in which shareholders develop scenarios for the future. I'd like to wait and see. I do not intend to support the airport financially, but I am also, of course, willing to see where I can help. The movement in society that you are calling for attention to, in connection with organ transplants, certainly has my special attention. I will get in touch with my colleague from VWS on this in good time if developments occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u211	I stood behind the speaker's seat years ago and said: we must now increase KLM's stock package. No one supported me, everyone laughed at me. A few years later, nearly 200 million more were paid for the same stock package. After all, they hadn't listened. I am now going to predict that it will be necessary in the future. Groningen Airport and Maastricht Aachen Airport should be supported. They also really belong under the Royal Schiphol Group, because otherwise they won't make it. Maastricht is important for the air freight sector and for the inhabitants of Limburg, as far as holiday flights are concerned. In Groningen there are even people from Germany who take holiday flights, but also for the hinterland of Groningen the airport is important. I want to say it again. It's in the Acts now, thanks to that nice lady in the back right corner. It's going to turn out that we don't act in good time. It needs to be looked at now. That's why I'm asking you to investigate. I'm not saying do it. I know that Groningen wants to retain a lot of its own control, but at Maastricht Aachen Airport that might be something else. They must really fall under the Schiphol Group. This also has to do with overhead costs, with air traffic control costs: they are priceless. I know that Maastricht alone has lost over EUR 1 million a year to air traffic control. All that needs to be thrown together. Go check it out, that's my question. It's a very essential thing. Both airports are of national interest. I went there two weeks ago with my team. I'd like the Minister to pay a work visit, just like I did. To the KLM Flight Academy that is there and the National Aviation School: should we become the National Aviation School again? Under OC&W, preferably. But also the University Medical Center. I've been talking about the organs, Mr. Chairman. When Eelde falls, it all falls over and the hospital just loses its university title. End of exercise! It's a domino effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u212	But that is also what you said in your first term. I am now going to give the Minister an opportunity to answer the many questions you are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u213	I can reassure Mr Graus that I have been to work several times, both at Groningen Airport Eelde and at Maastricht Aachen Airport. In both cases not so long ago. I've just indicated that the shareholders of Groningen Airport Eelde are currently investigating strategies and scenarios and I'm waiting. I have also said something about the concerns about the social flights associated with the hospital. If that is the case, I will be in contact with the colleague of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u214	However, a short question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u215	Will the Minister at least promise to have a conversation? Both airports now need consultation on the future. That's just what I was told. So just do that. Now it's gonna have to be examined first. We're too late. It's always... wait a minute. The same goes for the tests: well, it's gonna be okay. And laughing at everything. That's what Mr. Rutte always does: always laughing away everything. It's all laxity. But it has to be done now. I was right about the KLM, about the credit crisis and about nitrogen and phosphate. I always get right, and now I just want it to happen. The Minister simply has to promise now that she will have discussions with both airports. I don't want to wait till it's too late again. After all, I am also guarding public money and companies of national interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u216	We are constantly in consultation with both airports. I have nothing to add at the moment. We officials and I are in good contact with the airports and we are just waiting to see what the shareholders come up with. Then I ended up with the block on the other modalities. For all modes of transport, it must be done as safely and responsibly as possible. The aviation sector has drawn up strict protocols, but, for example, the road transport sector and inland waterway transport have also drawn up protocols. And not least, I call it train and bus traffic. In the light of time, I will not repeat everything; you know exactly what measures apply there. I have just said that, unfortunately, I cannot indicate which way of travelling is safest. For international boat and train traffic, protocols have been drawn up by European Maritime Safety Agency and European Railway Agency. As in aviation, therefore, the necessary international arrangements have been made for this sector, both for the traveller and for the staff on board a boat or train. Mr Amhaouch asked whether travelling by car in corona time is well enough arranged. His colleague Mr Postma tabled a motion on this before the summer, which was also adopted. I informed the Chamber by letter at the end of August that I also highlighted the importance of introducing hygiene and co-ordination measures along the motorway at EU level. Fortunately, this is also well arranged in the Netherlands. The necessary measures are also being taken abroad. The ANWB has played a good supporting role in the provision of information to passengers on measures concerning, for example, resting places along the highway. At the forthcoming informal Transport Council, wherever it is about freight transport, I will also draw a great deal of attention to the position of drivers on the way. The facilities must also remain accessible to them. Then there is a comment on the capacity utilisation rate. I have just said to Mr Amhaouch that I will look at what information we have on this point, in order to get some idea of how the various transport flows have developed in terms of numbers. Based on the latest figures, the estimated occupancy of international trains from at-risk areas is currently around 20%. Last week approximately 4,500 passengers arrived by train from risk areas. Approximately 1,500 passengers travelled by bus from risk areas to the Netherlands. Mr Amhaough has asked for more distance on the platforms. The NS monitors the hustle and bustle every week at the stations and in the trains. They see at a number of stations, for example when two trains arrive on both sides of the platform at the same time, that it is becoming more crowded and that it is also difficult to keep the distance. The Ministry is talking to the NS to look for a solution. The Secretary of State will come back to that shortly. Mr Graus asked about the coaches. Today there has been a debate on the emergency package 3.0, in which Minister Koolmees explained the emergency package further. The various sectors that have links with our ministry are also eligible for all these packages. When that calls for further action, we will be happy to look into it. Of course, we mainly monitor the sectors that affect us, but also the coaches can of course use the emergency package 3.0.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u217	But these coach companies are an industry that organizes relatively affordable trips for people and offers entertainment and relaxation to people who need it badly. They never keep their hands up. They're often family businesses, too. The company that my colleague visited has been working for the third generation. They just want to be in touch, they want to be heard, they want to be customized. They don't want money. What more do you want? Back in the day, ministers and secretaries of state were willing to say to the Chamber: okay, we're gonna do that, we're gonna take care of that. It's all so rigid. The ministers have the flexibility of a sea container. I just don't like it. There's no more promise. We can't tap anything anymore. That's not fun for us either. We represent those people. We're gonna visit these people and say, "We're gonna take care of that." Back in the day, you could just cut that off, no more today. It's zero. I find that sad, especially at this time. We have to be there for each other. Those people are asking, "Listen to us, too." It's a very large organization of a lot of companies. That's what I'm asking here. While I'm standing here, I'd like to ask one more question. If they don't, they're gonna have to come back with that patch. I also wanted to ask if the Minister would like to return to the letter from Schiphol, Corendon and Tui. Is she gonna say anything about that? I have already announced that I would have liked to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u218	That letter was also sent to VWS' colleague. He will, of course, answer that letter. As far as coaches are concerned, I know that Mr van Veldhoven is in contact, because many of these coaches are also used as replacements for NS and so on. So there are definitely contacts. There are contacts with EZK. I'm assuming they'll find us, too. Mr Öztürk asked whether we still need to take measures for commuting in the Netherlands. At present we see no reason for additional measures to limit commuting within the Netherlands. Mr Amhaouch had asked another question about air quality in trains and the quality of air filters. The air in a train is completely refreshed every ten to fifteen minutes with outdoor air. The air in a train is mixed partly with outdoor air, partly with recycled air. The degree to which the air refreshes is the so-called ventilation. I remember the slogan: measuring is knowing if you know what you're measuring. It didn't stop. This is gonna be a little tricky, 'cause I'm not that technical. The ventilation range varies between 5 and 10. This value is determined by the mixing ratio between outdoor air and recycled air. In time this means that the air in the passenger compartment is completely refreshed between 15 and 27 minutes. Due to this construction, NS is able to heat and cool the equipment efficiently. In addition, we also have the oral cap obligation in line with RIVM policy. That, too, is constantly monitored. A protocol of the railway agency, the European Railway Agency, has recently been published. This will also be reviewed in relation to the current situation on the train. Those were the questions about the other modalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you. Mr Öztürk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u220	My point was, in particular, to add additional wagons to the trains in rush hour, which means that there will be longer trains. In parallel, I have the following question. Perhaps I will go back to Limburg together with Mr Amhaouch. We are then all alone in the cabins: him in one cabin and me in the other cabin. I have to wear a mouth cap for about two hours and 15 minutes, while almost no one comes by for two hours and fifteen minutes. Many train passengers ask if there can be a tailor-made measure for rush hour or certain other times or that there can be a rule that you do not have to wear a mouth cap if you are alone in the cabin. So it's a little bespoke in the O.V.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u221	For the sake of clarity and communicatability of the policy, it is simply said that in public transport you wear a mouth cap. First of all, you asked whether longer trains could occasionally be used. This is definitely what the NS is looking at. The moment it gets too full somewhere, this is one of the first possibilities to be used. The question of whether wearing a mouth cap makes sense if you are alone in a compartment is difficult to answer, because where do you put the border? For the sake of clarity, the measure has therefore been chosen that a mask should be worn in public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u222	I get this. On the other hand, the government has introduced measures for regions. Certain measures apply to certain regions, but they do not apply in other regions. I see the cabinet is moving towards customization. The same measures are not therefore being taken everywhere. It looks at where the virus is and the measures are being taken. If you go through that line, you could say: in the evening after eight o'clock there is no need to wear mouth caps on the train. That's also a clear line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u223	Yes, but of course there are also trains in which it is still busy in the evening after eight o'clock. So this proposal does not seem to me to be a viable way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u224	You had come to the end of your first term. This means that we will proceed immediately with the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u225	Mr. Chairman. Last week alone, 40,000 travellers came from orange areas. It's not going well. I am therefore pleased that the Minister acknowledges this and that she says: I am going to investigate this and I come up with additional measures. The question is, of course, when is she going to do this? That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas we can only control the corona virus if all sections of society cooperate and take responsibility for it in their own area;]] [[noting that the travel advice of Foreign Affairs not to undertake non-necessary travel, such as holiday trips, to orange territory, is not followed by everyone;]] [[noting that a number of companies in the travel industry continue to offer trips and holidays to orange areas, also advertises them and promotes these holidays with attractive discounts, leading to more unnecessary trips to orange areas;]] [[Whereas this actively undermines the policy of avoiding travellers in these areas, and that this may lead to more infections in the Netherlands and thus the need for more far-reaching measures with a major social impact;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a firm plan of action within two weeks, in which, together with the travel and aviation sectors, agreements are made on the no longer promotion of holiday trips to these areas and on improving information to travellers, for example through pop-up screens and many other things;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in parallel what legal means can be put in place to enforce this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-566]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u226	In addition, I would like to hear when the commitment to carry out a legal analysis of how we stop Ryanair from offering dumping prices to coronahotspots with the current laws and regulations in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u227	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. You may surrender the motion here. Then I give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not going well. I think we're all concluding that. The number of infections is increasing, the testing capacity is not sufficient, Diederik Gommers says he sees the second wave coming and mayors want more measures. Within all this there is a huge amount of flown to code-orange areas. As far as we are concerned, that should stop as soon as possible. As far as I'm concerned, it's gonna end tomorrow, but I know it's a little more complicated than that. Nevertheless, I have put the possibilities of taking further steps in a motion. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aviation has contributed significantly to the worldwide spread of the corona virus;]] [[noting that airlines, like Ryanair, offer flights to code-orange areas at stunt prices, the travel advice of which is that only necessary journeys should take place;]] [[Whereas the provision of holiday flights at stunt or promotional prices cannot be explained while all kinds of corona measures are in force in our country to control the virus;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways in which holiday flights to code-orange areas can be prohibited and only necessary journeys allowed, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-567]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u229	Then I'll get to the test street at Schiphol. As far as we're concerned, it opens very quickly. There will also be some motions for a comprehensive test plan at airports. My motion specifically concerns the workers, who should therefore be allowed to work. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Coronatest Street at Schiphol Airport has been temporarily closed;]] [[Whereas thousands of passengers from code-orange areas return to the Netherlands every day;]] [[noting that these passengers cannot now be tested if they land at Schiphol Airport;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable now that the second wave appears to be there and more stringent measures seem inevitable;]] [[noting that workers at Schiphol Airport are in daily contact with passengers from code-orange areas;]] [[Whereas workers at Schiphol Airport must fight for virtually any improvement in their position and safety, including protection against corona;]] [[considers that the test street at Schiphol Airport should be reopened;]] [[calls on the government, following the reopening of the Schiphol testing street, to make it accessible to Schiphol employees with complaints that occur in the presence of the coronavirus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Paternotte, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Kröger, Mr Öztürk and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u231	I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr. Chairman. We need to get the test street back, as soon as possible, without endangering the testing of people with complaints. That's what the first motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet previously sought to develop a comprehensive test policy for passengers from orange areas with high corona contamination;]] [[Notes that the Chamber wishes to control the incoming flow of passengers from orange areas with high levels of corona contamination by means of a covering test policy;]] [[calls on the Government, when this is no longer at the expense of testing priority groups, to arrive at a comprehensive test policy at airports as soon as possible and to report to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Laçin, Mr Graus, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Bruins, Mr Kröger, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Öztürk and Mr Van Brenn.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-569]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u233	The motion talks about the cabinet's intention to come up with a covering test policy. We have just heard that the Minister of IenW was not aware of the fact that the Minister of VWS had actually used it as a test. How does Mr Paternotte indicate this, well, lack of coordination within the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u234	If that was not clear: I find the course of events amazing. I know it applies to more parties in the Chamber, from left to right, but we said in July: let us test at those airports. Especially when Germany started doing that for everyone at all airports, we said, "Go ahead and do that." On October 6th, the Minister announced at the press conference that we were going to do that, with a very visual sketch of how you get out of the gate and then a club of people says: there you are going to test. The weeks after, when that test street came, but with restrictive opening times and not everyone could test, it was said every time: but we're going to scale up, controlled up. That was indeed stated in this Minister's letter of approval. Indeed, this Minister is now making it clear that he himself did not know that it was a test at the time. That is why I asked you to send the design of the trial to the Chamber, and to make it clear when the cabinet has said so. Corona policy must be credible. Calling something after a test, which in advance was another measure to be introduced everywhere, does not help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u235	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u236	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present each country still imposes its own conditions on the form and version of the health certificate;]] [[considers that a patchwork of measures is not conducive to enforcement or clarity towards enforcers and passengers;]] [[Whereas the health statement can be an important link in enabling safe flight at the time of corona;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at European and, where possible, international level to achieve uniform measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that internationally different airports have applied other methods in addition to tests to detect infected travellers upon arrival, including temperature measurements and Mr Graus' corona dogs;]] [[also noted that several airports and airlines, including Germany and Italy, screen passengers with rapid tests before travelling;]] [[believes that it is important to take the lead in learning best practices;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber in October with an overview of best practices and an assessment of the possibility of making use of them in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Bruins and Mr Kröger.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-570]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Graus, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-571]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u237	Then I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that the NLR and RIVM will provide an interim report on the research currently under way in October. I have one more question. The minister said that the investigation had begun in July and that it would take a long time. Can the Minister make it clear when the NLR has been instructed to launch this investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u238	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I give the floor to Mr Dijkstra of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the travel advice. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas countries in connection with COVID-19 themselves carry out analyses of the risks of infection, the presence of the virus in a city, region or country, the reproductive factor and the number of positive tests;]] [[Whereas these travel advices with colour codes can quickly change, have major consequences and are sometimes confusing for the traveller;]] [[calls on the government to better align travel advice with other countries, especially in Europe, and to establish a clear system with nuance and/or room for local customization,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Paternotte, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Laçin, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-572]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u240	Then I have a few more questions. You can see the whole political spectrum here: banning on the one hand and appealing to people's own responsibility and everything in between on the other. But what binds us here is the call to do it most safely. Hopefully travel can get back on track, because we are now also seeing the major economic consequences for the sector. I hope that it can be restored and for that I see a number of positive things, such as cooperation with other Member States on the criteria and transparency, and that health statement. It's gotta be digital. From the summer I experienced how easy that is with such a PDF code. Those gates, too, are an idea. Maybe that temperature reading won't help, but I didn't have to do more than take off my hat. Then I could just keep going when they saw that I had a normal temperature. That kind of little stuff impresses me and I think it can be done here too. It has to work, of course. Together, therefore, seek solutions in this uncertain time. In that sense, Mr Graus was right when he said: it is all an experiment. None of us know exactly how to do it, because none of us have ever experienced it this way. It is difficult, and that is why we need to find solutions in this way. While I refer to Mr Graus, his plea for these local airports, which comes back to the Aeronautics Note, I subscribe to a large part of it. This infrastructure is also important, also for that holiday traveller who will hopefully be able to go back on holiday from his own region when the trust comes back, we have a vaccine and we stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u241	Mrs Kröger has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u242	Everything is an experiment, but only about the test street at Schiphol Airport does Mr Dijkstra not have it now. At the end of August, the Court was outlined in a letter that this was one of the measures needed to restore air traffic. Now it turns out that it has always been used as a test from VWS and that this minister was not aware of it. That's why she didn't let the Chamber know. How does Mr Dijkstra view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u243	I would have preferred to have seen that we could now take a million tests a day. I understand that there is scarcity and experience. These experiences are now being evaluated. The points that Schiphol itself points out are also important. Perhaps there will be a written response to these four points. One of these points is indeed a coordinated test strategy, in which everyone who goes in or out is tested. I think you're gonna need a lot more than the 30,000 we have right now. That 30,000 is now leading the way. There will be more, but that is for the whole of the Netherlands and you want to use them as optimally as possible. If that isn't at Schiphol Airport, because that chance just turns out to be very small, then maybe that test will prove to be........................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then you have to use them for your agents, for your teachers, for your care staff. Unfortunately, that's just what we're dealing with right now. So it's really about scarcity and learning moments. I hope that it will be just a million later and that we can do it just like Germany, because then people's confidence can come back. Then people can travel again. Then we can go back to doing nice things in a minute and I can't wait to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u244	I do not think my question has been fully answered. I was not so much concerned that the test street was closed because there was scarcity and an acute very big problem throughout the Netherlands with testing. I think that is perfectly understandable. That's not what my question is about. The point is that this measure was sold to the Chamber by Minister De Jonge on 6 August and later by this Minister as a measure to reduce the risks of contamination, whereas it now appears that the test street should be closed because there are not enough tests, it is said that it was just a test and that this minister was not aware of it at all. My question to Mr Dijkstra was how he points that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u245	I don't think a minister needs to sell anything. A minister has to make good decisions. It was chosen to do so, to gain experience with it. We've found that there's a shortage. It may then be useful to use the available tests better elsewhere. Let's evaluate those results, of which we have also seen part of the GGD, with each other to see how we can optimally use those tests within the possibilities we have. I would like to thank you for your question, which allowed me just to ask another question about the measures that Schiphol itself had devised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u246	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u247	Mr. Chairman. I would like to know how many health statements have been taken in the samples, compared to the number of flights. Can the Minister ensure that this is taken into account in the biweekly corona letter from the Minister of the United States of America? Maybe in that letter he can give the information about that test street that suddenly turned out to be a test. I think that's a nice subject to bring to the next Corona debate. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona virus can be demonstrated in wastewater rather than in regular tests;]] [[Whereas it is worth paying particular attention to the situation in aircraft;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in the short term whether the testing of aircraft waste water can contribute to the identification of possible spread of the coronavirus, and if this proves to be the case, to implement it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-573]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u248	We have actually insisted on the presence of the VWS Minister. We understand that this is not always possible, but I found it difficult for this minister to sell the VWS policy. I regret that, and I hope that all this information will be included in the corona letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u249	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today in this house we have been talking about the consequences of corona for almost 12 hours, because this morning we started talking about the package of aid of billions, the third aid package, which is badly needed to support companies, to support people, to lead people from work to work, to lead people from benefit to work. All this is a result of a virus that strikes hard in the Netherlands and actually in the whole world. We don't do that for nothing. In that case, it would be strange if you were to dismiss that debate on support and the promotion of people and businesses against what is happening in international travel. That thousands of people from orange areas come in here every day without being tested. That's a risk. Yeah, there's a problem with test capacity. We recognise this widely, but it is strange that on the one hand we are strict, we spend billions, and on the other hand we are at quite a risk with the unclear international travel. In addition, Ryanair has a top man who really cares about the Netherlands and, in fact, everyone in Europe, and who also cares about the importance of people's health. To underline that, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an orange travel advice means that it is urgently advised to travel only in case of a necessary journey;]] [[noting that holidays are not necessary travel;]] [[noting that the number of corona infections in the Netherlands and other European countries has increased rapidly in recent weeks and that there is a second wave of corona virus;]] [[Whereas thousands of Dutch travellers travel to orange travel areas every week;]] [[Whereas, in view of the coming autumn and Christmas holidays, it is important that people be reminded that they should not go to orange areas on holiday;]] [[calls on the government to more actively discourage people from going on holiday to orange areas, and to inform the Chamber within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-574]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u252	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u253	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a motion and finish where Mr Gijs van Dijk has also finished, namely in the ordinary dumping of tickets to corona risk areas, the orange areas. You can't do that. The Minister has already said that she is going to the European Commission, but I would also like to underline this with a broad-based motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch authorities recommend traveling to the area concerned by code orange only if it is necessary to travel on holiday is not included;]] [[whereas many offers for airline tickets from the Netherlands go to a code-orange area, which gives a perverse incentive;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of dumping of airline tickets to a code-orange area;]] [[Invites the Government to examine whether the promotion of travel to corona fireplaces is consistent with the prohibition of deception in the Dutch Advertising Code, and to inform the Chamber of both requests before the autumn recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Paternotte, Mr Kröger, Mr Bruins, Mr Laçin, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Remco Dijkstra.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-575]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u254	We too look forward to the results of the test at Schiphol Airport and what the results are, because after such an analysis you can say that we roll it out widely and how we do it. But we know we're in a crisis. In a crisis, you have to make choices and set priorities. Whether we're going to bet that on Schiphol, on Eindhoven or on important stations, that test can also come out. So, yeah, we should. Another point we would also like the Minister to take with us to Foreign Affairs: look critically at what is really an orange area. We have had Greece as an example. If it's orange, it's orange, and we don't have to travel there. But if it is safe and it is yellow, then we must also leave room for the sector to fly, but in the right order: health first. I see that I have minus ten seconds and that Mr Paternotte is at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u255	That is what I find and I give him the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u256	And for the answer to the question, Mr Amhaouch does not need to use that minus ten seconds, so that saves. I would like to ask Mr Amhaouch whether he has at any time heard, seen or read before 11 September that the test street was a test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u257	I have not read it, that is correct, but I have always assumed it, because it is only at certain times that we measure it and a number of thousands of samples have been taken to get the results from it. That's how I see it. Mrs Van Brenk indeed said that the times were up to 6 o'clock in the evening, so if you really make structural policy of it and if you think you should take such a test carefully and take the cases out... Yeah, I don't think that was the plan. At least that's my interpretation. But I don't think it's important either. It was also said here on Tuesday: we are in a crisis. There are things that happen that you say afterwards: we should have done that differently. Every time I hear Mr Paternotte ask the question: was it a test or not a test? I would also like Mr Paternotte to say: let the results come quickly to the Chamber, then the Chamber can find something and then the GGD and the RIVM can explain it. Perhaps we can then roll it out more broadly, or perhaps it indicates that we need to be more careful and much more critical, and that those tests can be much more valuable in other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u258	I do care because I think it is important for the government to be honest and because I note that the VWS Ministry is extremely busy and has a lot to do. Then I wonder whether there should be an entire evaluation of a test, which was never a test, when you can also test everyone, as they do in Germany, including the figures on hundreds of thousands of people at airports and at service stations. Then my question is: do you think that the VWS ministry should be involved in evaluating a very small trial, while in our largest neighbour you have a huge, fantastic large and wide trial, which is not even a trial? Or should they spend that time perhaps helping get the test capacity in order? That's the question. Do you want an evaluation, while we can just look at the neighbors, or should we focus on where the problem really lies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u259	There's got to be something wrong with me. I really find it too easy to paint the picture as if the Netherlands is just making it a bitch. Mr Paternotte mentions Germany every time. I have just said that Germany is indeed doing the best in the whole of Europe when you look at the number of infections. Look at our neighbouring countries. Look at the United Kingdom, where the advice for the Netherlands is orange. Look at Belgium, Spain, France: they are all struggling with this problem. I understood that Germany is indeed testing a lot at the airports. But they would have the results within three days of the test and now they are stuck. They haven't made it through those three days. They're running into five or six days already. It's not that easy to say from a certain position "you can" or "we're gonna roll it all out." Let me go with Mr Paternotte. Suppose in a normal year there are 70 million travelers at Schiphol Airport. Take 10% or 20% of that. Just with the capacity we have today, you won't even get what you can do at Schiphol Airport. So I do not know where Mr Paternotte is going, but to say blindly that we must test everyone at Schiphol... People with complaints, again, have priority. People with vital professions are a priority. In fact, let the cabinet come to the Chamber with the results. Perhaps it will come out that we are going to roll it out, to a limited extent, but the capacity of testing will never be infinite now and in the future. And I also hope that the speed tests will come to the Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u260	There are absolutely no 80 million people going to be tested at Schiphol Airport, because 80 million people are not going to travel at all because most of the areas are orange.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u261	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u262	But why is this relevant? Why are we asking for it? That test street at Schiphol Airport was presented on 6 August as a measure to control the growing number of infections and the growing number of travellers and to control the situation. That was confirmed by the Minister on 25 August. That was the measure, because we in the Chamber expressed our concern that the number of passengers was increasing and that there were many orange areas. The question was: how do we get that in the claws? That test street was an answer. It is perfectly understandable that it should then be closed because there is not enough capacity. But be honest about that. Do not say afterwards: yes, it was just a test and the test is now closed. That's not right. Then just say it was the intention to scale up quickly. It's in the letters. Then just say: unfortunately we cannot live up to that intention; we have had to close the test street and we try to bring it back as soon as possible. That's the point, Mr. Amhaouch. I would very much like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u263	First of all, I didn't say we should test 70 million people. I said, in a normal year, Schiphol runs 70 million. Take 10%, 20% or 30% of that. 30% will already be 57,000 people a day. If you're just testing that 30%, you're gonna need the capacity for that, too. That's the point I'm trying to make; that's not about the 70 million. And I like to look forward to the results of that test. That's important to me. I want to know how many people are being taken out of there. If this is substantial and capacity increases, it could be a consideration of priorities. I do not hear Mrs Kröger from GroenLinks say anything about that. I can only hear her talking about Schiphol. You are now also the spokesman on corona. You will also be faced with the choice: if we have a certain capacity to spend more, will we take it to primary schools, to the police, to care, to childcare or to another sector? You too will have to make that choice. That's the limited capacity. But all I hear today is that we have to test 24 hours a day at Schiphol without having the results of a pilot, a test. And if you don't want to call that a test, you can. I like to look forward to the results. Then we can make sensible policies again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u264	A final short question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u265	I don't call it a trial. The Minister calls it a trial. That's the difference. And about prioritising: I have said very clearly that I fully understand that other priorities are chosen in the event of scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u266	And your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u267	My solution would then be to really reduce the number of trips to orange areas. For 40,000 travellers to orange areas in the middle of a corona crisis is irresponsible. There's the key. But presenting a measure to us as a Chamber as a way of reducing the risk, then suspending it because there are not enough resources and then later saying 'it was just a test', which does not create confidence. And providing trust is at this moment the greatest task of this cabinet. I therefore ask Mr Amhouach to give an opinion on the fact that something is now labelled as a test which has never been presented as a test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u268	I do not want to repeat myself, but in confidence it is important that you can also demonstrate that certain measures are effective. I can create false security and only say what everyone calls, blindly. Measuring is knowing if you know what you're measuring. If you're going to test blindly 24 hours a day, I don't have faith in that either if I don't know it's effective. Then it will come at the end of the evening, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Kröger that we should discourage it. That's why we tabled a motion together. The dumping that Ryanair is doing is not possible. It's common dumping. In any case, we must drastically reduce the number of travellers to these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u269	I have just noted a literal quote from Mr Amhaouch. Maybe he can just explain it, 'cause it scared me a little bit. The statement was: I don't think it's so important. Maybe the CDA could just explain that. What doesn't he think is so important?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u270	Can Mrs. Van Brenk give us the context? When did I say that? I've been in the Chamber for almost five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u271	Just!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u272	In what context?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u273	Well, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u274	Well, I don't know. I don't know what context it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u275	I believe that we are all engaged in an important debate about the dangers, about health care and about the dangers, and I hear you say: I do not think it is so important. I was shocked by that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u276	Can you finish the sentence? In what context was it? I can't do anything with this right now. Can you finish the sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u277	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u278	Well, then I can't answer it. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u279	Perhaps you could at least explain it to me later, once you have read the report back. I'd really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u280	I'm certainly willing to do that, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u281	You're gonna talk about that. Very good. Then I would like to thank you for your contribution and, after the chair has been cleaned, we will go to Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the listeners and viewers who are still awake have seen and heard, I support a number of motions by Cem, Rem and Jan. These are the honourable Members of the Socialist Party, the Member of the Second Chamber of the States-General of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and, of course, Father Fraternotte of Democrats 66. I want to thank them, because I always like it. If you are later as a speaker, it is better not to double with motions, but to sign with colleagues who have spoken before. Thank you all for your collegiality, gentlemen. Sometimes it is good to put party politics aside and to work together to achieve something together. I am very much in favour of that. In the first term, I asked for an investigation into how to better test passengers before entering the boxes, so before. That is what my group chairman has asked a few times. We're never gonna get an answer to that in some weird way, when it's got to be possible. I also asked a question about a Dutch company that developed a quick test. I guess England I don't know how many millions have ordered, but what about us? 'Cause I think it's awfully quiet. I have to hear this from the media as the aviation spokesman. Suddenly I see such a director of such a company. I think that is something we should have known by a letter as spokesperson for aviation. For example, pilots from the media need to know what areas of conflict are. They don't know that either. So the information to us as a room could be a little better. Finally. That's a serious matter, Mr. Chairman. Groningen Airport Eelde and Maastricht Aachen Airport are getting into trouble. Trust me. It is two airports of national interest. Please, Madam Secretary, go talk to them now and now explore how they can become part of the Schiphol Group in the future. You don't have to do that from today to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u284	But it has to be done. I hope she can promise that. Mr. Fraternotte, say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u285	Mr. Paternotte, are you sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u286	"Fraternotte" is not right, of course, but I do appreciate that Mr Graus calls me Jan, and not Bas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u287	Yeah, that's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u288	That's always very much appreciated in the family.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u289	That's the twitty, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u290	He's the nephew of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u291	He's the wise cousin of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u292	The little nephew of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u293	My name is in the family: the wise cousin of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u294	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u295	Yes. What was my question? You also point to practices in other countries and people's testing before boarding. We see that in Italy. Alitalia offers corona-free flights where everyone is tested. Lufthansa's gonna do the same now. Do you share with me that we have to go there? Do you also think it should be possible to get on a plane knowing that everyone has been tested, allowing you to travel safely in such a plane?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u296	Sure. That is also what my group chairman has asked for before. And indeed, I am very much in favour of testing in advance. That's the very best. So before you have people in the coffin, it must have happened already. And it can. I am also very proud that there is now also a Dutch company that has developed very good quick tests. And it's possible, Mr. Páternotte. Because that Brothernotte is a pet name. "Pater Fraternotte" should also be able to, so late at night. There's almost no one listening or watching anymore, and we're between us anyway, so who cares? Mr. Chairman, a blessed night. Good night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u297	Thank you very much and thank you for your contribution. I give the floor to Mr Öztürk of Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u298	Mr. Chairman. KLM gets billions of support. Pilots get two to three tons of salary. And for the employees of Schiphol, who still want to be tested, the cabinet removes the test street. Many Members have rightly spoken about this and have tabled motions for resolutions on it. I have a motion on that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the test street at Schiphol Airport is closed;]] [[calls on the Government to reopen the Schiphol Test Road as soon as possible and to make tests available to travellers from at-risk areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-576]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u299	Data is very important, information is very important and must also be accessible to others. I have a motion for that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is inconsistency in the application of the corona measures;]] [[calls on the Government to release all available COOVID-19 data related to aviation for analysis and research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-577]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u300	In addition, we have signed a number of motions, so as to avoid discussion. I hope those motions make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u301	Thank you, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u302	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A couple of motions and a few more questions. Let me start with the questions. Mr Paternotte asked when the contracts were awarded to NLR and RIVM. The official quotation routes usually have a long lead time of a few months, but because of the urgency of this investigation I did not want to wait for that. I therefore contacted the NLR and RIVM about the investigation on 30 June, even before the motion was even adopted by the Chamber. We have asked NLR and RIVM to prepare the research in advance and not to wait for the completion of the official tender process. Both sides agreed to this. Therefore, the NLR and RIVM were already in operation before the formal contract of tranche 1 was issued. That was on 17 August at the NLR and on 26 August at the RIVM, but we came into contact on 30 June to start the necessary preparations. Then Mr Paternotte asked another question. His question was: when could I have learned that the test street at Schiphol Airport is a test? I'll read it as literally as I can here. At the end of July, the OMT advised to start a study on testing people without complaints such as travelers at Schiphol Airport. On 31 July, the Cabinet informed your Chamber that it would take a number of steps, including using these tests in a voluntary sample setting, for example at Schiphol Airport. As a result of this study, it would be desirable to consider whether this should be introduced more widely. The intention was to scale up, but since it has become known in the past period that the test capacity is under pressure, my colleague decided that it was not wise to scale up further. On 14 September, the OMT also advised on groups that are important for testing. This does not give passengers the highest priority. This opinion was taken up in the letter of 18 September. I understand that Mr Paternotte has already put written questions on this matter to Mr VWS. He will receive the answers soon. Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u304	Before you do that, Mr Paternotte has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u305	I think it is very significant that the Minister is now quoting from a letter dated 31 July. That was indeed a response to an OMT advice and in the same letter the Minister indicated that he would not want to open a test street at Schiphol. This was only announced a week later, on 6 August at the press conference in which the Minister said: the guide will also be made clear to everyone "you will be tested" and that at the gate there is a club of people that everyone refers to the test street. If the Minister comes up with a letter from before the test-street announcement and an OMT opinion at all, then we can all see that in no letter of Parliament and no statement from the Minister since 6 August when this was announced, there was anything to suggest that it was a trial and not something that would simply be introduced anywhere. Can we establish that with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u306	I actually have nothing to add to what I just said. We come into a sort of semantic discussion between "test," "pilot," "test," "research" and all kinds of other names for this. I suggest that Mr Paternotte should just wait for the answers to the written questions. He will, of course, also receive the evaluation in mid-October. That's what the colleague from VWS promised. I really don't have anything to add to that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u307	Mr Paternotte, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u308	It is true that we had asked written questions. We had also asked for it to be answered for this debate. My fellow party member did not say for nothing that the VWS Minister should not be here, but we assume that the delegation of the cabinet that is there will be able to answer all the questions. The Minister has referred a number of times this evening to the Minister of the United States of America. In any case, I would not want that for one question, and that is my question as to whether we in the Chamber can receive the test set-up from which we can deduce what was the purpose at the front of what is now called a test. Can we have it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u309	At the moment, I have no choice but to pass that question on to the VWS colleague, and I will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u310	I had also asked questions about those samples, about those numbers, and so on. I asked if I could get a letter from the Minister of the United States of America and I have no response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u311	I didn't get a chance to check that out so quickly. I will also pass that question on to the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u312	Then Mrs Kröger, who has to go to the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u313	Mr. Chairman. The Minister now outlines that at the end of July it has been said that it is a trial, but that we are not going to do it. Then it was said on 6 August: we will do it. At that time, as a Chamber, we were not told that this was a trial, but we should have accepted it. I have the following question. There is the letter of August 25th, at a time when there were already quite a lot of concerns about the fact that more and more traveled to orange areas. The Chamber was worried about that. Then she outlined in that letter all the measures that were taken, to say that it was not so bad. Then that test street was very clearly mentioned in that. If it was only a test, then the Minister should have outlined the other ways in which we would mitigate that risk at the time that the test had ended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u314	I do not have any further information in the direction of Mrs Kröger. We come into some sort of semantic discussion about "pilot," "test," "research," "test," you name it all. I can repeat what I just read, but that's no use. I would like to refer you to the evaluation promised by the VWS Minister and to answer the written questions. I have nothing else to add at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u315	I find it very difficult that this is being pushed back and forth between the Minister of VWS and this Minister as some kind of hot potato from testing at Schiphol. First we get letters from De Jonge. Next, on 25 August, the Minister writes a letter to the Chamber on aviation policy and the mitigation of the risks posed by corona. That is the responsibility of this minister. This minister mentions testing at Schiphol Airport as one of the measures. Then it turns out that that is a trial that is stopped. Then there is the question: if the Minister knew at that time that it was a trial, how did she see the course of the trial after it had ended? Were we going to fly less at Schiphol? Did the number of flights continue to rise? What consequences did that have? It's kind of weird to present something like a mitigating measure if it's actually just a test. Well, then you'd have to outline the consequences of that, wouldn't you? The Minister cannot run away from that, because that is just her policy, namely aviation. That is why we are also having this debate with this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u316	Sure. I repeat what I said in the first term. It has always been important that RIVM should also look again at the added value of asymptomatic testing. That's all I can add, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u317	Okay, now we're going to wait for that evaluation of a test that has been used as a policy measure to mitigate a risk. Then there's the question of what that means for how we handle flying. Meanwhile, the number of travellers is still growing and there are more and more areas of orange. Well, then there's got to be a consequence, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u318	We have, of course, discussed extremes that we have capacity problems in the tests. That's why we have to make choices. Then you first choose the people who have complaints and in there for the people in the vital professions. If the problems with the test capacity are resolved, Mr De Jonge will also have the evaluation round. That's what I'm assuming, since he said "mid-October." Then we can see what comes out of it. Then it will also become clear whether you are going to do this only at Schiphol Airport or perhaps at all airports or perhaps at stations. At all events, it will take into account the added value of asymptomatic testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u319	Thank you. Then I propose that the Minister continue to answer the questions she has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u320	I think I've been through the questions and now I can move on to the motions. Then I come to the motion on part No. 566 by Mrs Kröger and others That is a rather extensive motion, in which quite a lot is asked. That is why I must discourage the motion, because the more active legal enforcement of matters such as the passenger locator form or the health statement is all a lot more complicated and also partly in the area of colleagues from VWS and JenV. Adding all this together would then have to succeed in two weeks: I really can't live up to that. As sympathetic as I think it is, I'm going to dissuade this motion. Perhaps then I can make the motion in part no. 574 of Mr Gijs van Dijk's hand, because I can give him a Chamber of Judgement. That motion is coming close to this. I should like to make a reservation on this motion. I certainly want to explore these possibilities, together with my fellow executives, but I also say that two weeks is too short. Well, then, I'm really gonna ask for that leniency. I want to do it as fast as I can, but I really can't guarantee it in two weeks. If you could go along with that, I could give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u321	Wait a minute, Mr. Paternotte. I note that the motion in part No. Mr Van Dijk's motion on item No 566 was dissuaded and that Mr Van Dijk's motion on item No 566 was rejected. 574 judgment of the Chamber, at least, as the minister may interpret it in a certain way. Mr Van Dijk nods in agreement, so that is the case. I'm just giving you the floor, Mr. Paternotte, but I was just thinking, is it neat to...? Yes. Then we'll be the first to go to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u322	I'm just saying because I'm confused. I hear the Minister say something about pastor locator forms and health statements, but I do not read those words in the motion in part No. 566. I wonder if she had the right motion when giving the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u323	These are all matters that we are working on. No more promoting vacation... You can have all kinds of brakes on that. In that sense, therefore, we take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u324	I just really don't get it. The Minister just said that there are all things in the motion such as pastor locator forms and health statements; that is all going to be very much and that is why I advise her. I understand it's just a motion. It is not mine, but I would like to know the substance of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u325	Then I'll pass the motion. It says: "Asks the government to come up with a firm plan of action within two weeks, in which agreements are made with the travel and aviation industries." Those travel sectors do not want to make this kind of arrangement with us. Let me give you the example of the airline you were just talking about. I dare give you a note saying that it is not going to make any appointments with me at all, especially in two weeks' time. I've really shared the intentions with you. The plan of action: I would like to do that. I really want to do my best for all the proposals that have been made. Again, two weeks is too short to come up with a firm plan of action. And then there are agreements with the travel and aviation sectors: I simply cannot live up to that. It's never gonna work. If they wanted to, they wouldn't be able to do it in two weeks. But I don't think they're gonna do it at all. And that's not how I'm gonna promise it, because I just don't think it's feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u326	A brief question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u327	This is a bit amazing, isn't it? We have a whole debate here. I think there is a need for strong government direction from left to right in the Chamber. Here's a motion that actually says, "Get around the table." Every once in a while, this cabinet closes a covenant with a sector to settle something. Get around the table. The Minister has now written a note, but go round the table and make appointments. In fact, the Minister now says: yes, they don't want to do that at all; they don't want to do that at all. Then it is necessary to investigate what else can be done through government intervention. And that concerns the second part of the motion. So these are two actions to which, as I hear in this debate, there is a great need. When it comes to those two weeks... Minister, that does not seem to me to be the main essence of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u328	Of course, it'll help if you take those two weeks out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u329	In the motion in part No. 574 was also suggested that there might be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u330	Yeah, yeah, yeah, but you're asking a lot more. The second request is: 'calls on the Government to examine in parallel what legal means can be put in place'. I've already promised you that. I can agree to that part anyway. It's all about you asking me to make appointments. That's different than going around the table with the intention of bringing them to something. I would, of course, like to do that, but I really cannot guarantee that these agreements will be made, because the chances of that happening are not very great. And that's what you say here. You are asking not only to come up with a firm plan of action within two weeks, but also to agree on it together with the travel and aviation sectors. Well, that's just impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u331	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u332	Mr President, I hear...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u333	You're just disagreeing. It's possible. In the end, the Chamber has the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u334	But, Mr President, I hear the Minister sketching out that she wants to go round the table but cannot yet guarantee that there is a firm package of agreements. I also hear she wants to examine the legal possibilities in parallel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u335	Sure, I can embrace the second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u336	I think that is entirely the intention of the motion, so I will amend the motion and put it to the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u337	Okay. I'll see if the motion has been modified this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u338	Then I'd like to have another judgment on that modified motion. It seems to me that the coalition parties always need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u339	Fine. Again, the second part is no problem, but I think the first part really goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u340	The motion in this form has discouraged the judgment, but is being modified. If the revised motion reaches the Minister in time, it will receive a revised judgment or the same opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u341	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u342	Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u343	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 567 by Mr Laçin. He asked to investigate the ways in which travel could be prohibited. Of course, I will not advise them, because there is no way to prohibit them. You cannot discriminate on the travel motive, because of course there are always flights that people must be able to use for necessary travel, including to orange areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u344	I have heard the Minister say in the debate that flight bans can always be allowed. I ask in this motion to investigate how this could be done in code-orange areas for holiday flights. It doesn't say it should be banned immediately. Frankly, that's my wish, but that's not in the motion. When I hear the Minister say that flight bans are always possible in some situations, I would ask the Minister to put on paper when and when holiday flights to code-orange areas are possible. That's what the motion requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u345	So that's not possible. You can set a flight ban to a country or region, but not based on specific types of flights or travel motives. You can't discriminate against that. You can only determine it by area or country and then only at the direction of the Minister of VWS on the basis of the Public Health Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u346	The motion in part No. 567 is denied judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u347	Then I come to the motion on part No. 568. It's on the premises of my colleague from VWS. On behalf of this colleague, I can inform you that employees of Schiphol can always be tested at the GGD-test streets when they have complaints indicating COVID-19. When the test street opens again, he will see if it is possible to take the employees of Schiphol. However, we are dealing with a shortage of test capacity. That's why testing people with complaints comes first. After consultation with the colleague of VWS, the motion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u348	The question is whether we should have a follow-up debate on any motion on which part of the Chamber disagrees with the Minister, because once again, the Chamber has the final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u349	That's right, only the Minister is now literally saying that people have complaints ahead of them. The motion says Schiphol employees with complaints. I find it strange that what we are asking for and what the Minister is saying is consistent, but that the motion is still being dissuaded. It's a match, isn't it? It says, "Schiphol employees with complaints."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u350	Again, on behalf of VWS colleague: employees of Schiphol can always be tested at the GGD-test streets. So that's something other than that it's necessarily happening at Schiphol. The colleague from VWS who is talking about the test streets is deceiving the motion, and so am I. The motion in part No. 569 is from Mr Paternotte's hand. That reaction will probably not lead to interruptions, because that motion I can give Chamber judgment. On behalf of the VWS colleague, I would like to say that it is important that the lab capacity is restored. There are many groups that are more priority than testing travellers from orange countries without complaints. When the lab capacity is back in order, taking into account the developments of the innovative tests and the results of the RIVM research on testing people without complaints at Schiphol Airport, it will be considered when and how travellers can be tested. This part can be included in a next progress letter. The motion gets judgment Chamber. Also the motion in part No. 570 is on the premises of the colleague of VWS. On behalf of my colleague, I can inform you that discussions are currently taking place at European level on a more coordinated approach to the restriction of free movement within the Union as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic. In the light of this discussion, the Netherlands can vote in favour of a uniform health statement. The motion gets the judgment room. The same applies to the motion in part No. 571, in which the government is asked to inform the Lower House in October about best practices at the airports. This motion, too, will be judged by Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 572, tabled by Mr Dijkstra. We have had contact with the Foreign Minister on this motion. The motion calls for travel advice to be better aligned with other countries, especially in Europe, and for a clear system with nuances and/or room for local customization. The Foreign Minister agrees that I can leave the ruling on this motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 573, tabled by Mrs Van Brenk. This motion is on the property of my colleague from VWS. This motion is not recommended by me. Schiphol's sewer water has been tested weekly since mid-February. This also contains the waste water from aircraft. Since March, virtually all of these samples show particles of the coronavirus, but it is not traceable from whom these particles originate. I have just indicated that the requested in the motion will cost too much testing capacity of the GGD. Given the current situation, this is not the priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u351	I understand that dissuading the motion has to do with scarcity. But if we ever get into the situation that this scarcity has been resolved, then it would be a very simple and very tight targeted action to take the test already at the plane, so that you know which passengers you have to be with. I don't understand why it's so negative. I understand that it is because of scarcity, but the option mentioned in the motion should actually be embraced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u352	I will convey this view to the VWS colleague, but at the moment the motion is being dissuaded. The motion in part No. 574, tabled by Mr Van Dijk, I had already commented. The judgment on the motion in part No. I can leave 575 to the Chamber. That motion is in line with what I have promised in general with regard to the Transport Council. The motion in part No. 576, tabled by Mr Öztürk, I should like to disagree, because VWS informs the Chamber in October about the test decision. Also the motion in part No. 577, also tabled by Mr Öztürk, I would advise against. It's unnecessary. Of course, we're releasing the data we have. Of course, releasing all data is simply impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u353	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on corona dissemination in relation to international passenger traffic. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u354	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. Have a good night.
