ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Nature Protection Act and to the Environmental Law (Nutrition Reduction and Improvement of Nature), 35600. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks. You're on duty today, aren't you, all day?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u3	After this, it's soon Christmas, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u4	That's right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the debate on the Cabinet Nitrogen Act, this morning we were talking about that of GroenLinks. It is about more than nitrogen, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is about leadership, about solutions or false solutions and about being a reliable government. I already indicated this morning that on 29 May 2019, when the judge declared that the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen was not the right one and that the Netherlands had to do more to protect nature, it made me emotional. We thought that would be an opportunity to finally put nature back in order. At the very beginning, I will give my opinion on the bill: this is a bill from a cabinet that refuses to come up with a solution that not only harms nature, but also the economy. The rest of my speech will focus on this, and so will the questions. To understand it better, it is good to give a short look back at the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. This morning I asked a few parties who have agreed in the past to the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen and are therefore responsible for the enormous mess that we have ended up in here in the Netherlands, whether they have ever looked back on their role by agreeing to that Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. I have seen a lot of self-reflection with the Labour Party, a very small beginning with the CDA, but I am happy to say that the parties that now threaten to support this law were also the parties that supported the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. I would like to warn them that they are in danger of swimming in the same trap, the dead end that they have entered into during the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. After the judge's ruling, the Chamber had a round table with experts to let us know exactly what was going on and what we had to do. Professor Bastmeijer also spoke there on 16 October 2019. He said: the whole system of external netting, thresholds etc. falls into disarray as long as the conservation targets are not in sight. These are nature's conservation goals. You have to, he continues, have a story of how you're gonna make it at field level and where you're gonna have to reduce that national blanket of nitrogen, otherwise you're gonna be in court again. The question is whether this law will prevent us from going back to trial. A year ago, GroenLinks tabled a motion in which we said: you must therefore legally define the objectives you are pursuing. That motion was voted down. We filed her again last spring, and then she was voted out again by the coalition parties. However, I would like to congratulate the coalition parties on the fact that there has apparently been some awareness that it is not about targets if you want to save nature or the economy, but that you have to lay it down legally. That's a win for today. So the parties D66, CDA, VVD and ChristenUnion who wanted to establish targets in the spring now say: okay, it needs to be laid down by law. That's a good thing. This morning we discussed the law of GroenLinks, which was and still is intended to solve the nitrogen problem. We need to put the neglected nature in order, and because of that, because we have put nature in order, we can also build houses, for example, for all those job seekers. We have drawn up our law, which I told you this morning, together with all kinds of parties. These were sometimes unexpected coalitions from nature, from the building world, from business, with farmers, scientists and lawyers. It was very nice to work with all these parties. Until last week, I also had a lot of contact with these parties, who sometimes said: we call you, because the minister does not do what she has to do. Sometimes I felt like a little minister and I thought, "How is it that I'm on the phone with all those parties when we have a minister who has to solve that problem?" Why isn't she at the table with all these people? My question to the Minister is: who did she all talk to about this bill? What parties have said: we are enthusiastic about this? I will come back to that in a moment. As a Chamber, we have said that there will be an advisory committee and it will assess what is needed. That advisory committee was ready to go: 50% reduction in 2030. But the cabinet opts for 28% reduction in 2030. The question to the Minister is: why? What is this 28% based on? Is that a result of cow trading in the coalition? 'Cause Remkes doesn't call that 50% for nothing. It is based on an ecological analysis by Wageningen University. It is intended to bring nature into a good state of conservation in 30 years' time. What the cabinet doesn't do is bring nature into good shape in 30 years' time. The question to the Minister is: when has Dutch nature been restored as a result of this law? Mr. Chairman. Why is there only a target set for 2030? Why not for 2040? What exactly are we working towards? Remkes says that all Natura 2000 sites should be below the critical deposition value by 2040. How does the Minister feel about that? Why does the Minister go to Brussels once again to advocate weakening Natura 2000 sites? The law of the Cabinet lays down measures. It looks like maths. We talked about it extensively this morning, too, but I do have a lot of questions about it. Because all these measures aren't as mathematical or hard to enforce as they seem. I have the following questions for the Minister. Will there be a mandatory reduction in protein content in animal feed? I saw in the summer that the farmers are not waiting for that at all, so what is the expectation that this will happen voluntarily? Is there going to be an obligation for grazing? Is there going to be a mandatory dilution of manure? I suspect that there will be no obligation, but I would like to hear it from the Minister, because this cabinet and this coalition loves volunteering very much. And how can the cabinet say that there's going to be an approach to peak loaders without coercion? How's that going? I have already heard from provinces that they do not even dare to ask farmers whether they are peak taxers or that they do not want to tell them because they are afraid of coercion. They're butter-smooth measures. The question is: can the agricultural sector be sure that everything remains voluntary or will there still be commitments later, as an out-of-box? Mr. Chairman. A year and a half after the judge's ruling and the publication of this law, I took a look at all the lobby letters we received from civil society organisations to see if they are happy with this law. Actually, no one's happy. That is why I asked the Minister who she actually consulted. For example, did she talk to Johan Vollenbroek, the one who filed this lawsuit? It seems to me very useful to consult someone who has spent years, years and years in this area, to see when a law is legally sustainable or not. Is the law we're discussing today legally sustainable? Indeed, in 50% of Natura 2000 sites, the Cabinet is in danger of deteriorating nature, which is prohibited under the Birds and Habitats Directives. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. The province of South Holland has also written that more needs to be done. The VNG asks to ask the following question. Is it a conscious choice that the approach of this cabinet will no longer be possible to build in certain areas? These are often the areas where many people want to live, such as North Holland, South Holland, the municipality of Zwolle and the municipality of Zaanstad. They all face the challenge of building houses, but they can't, because there's no room for that. Mr. Chairman. The dairy farmers and LTO are also dissatisfied. Building the Netherlands was dissatisfied, but is satisfied after the agreement. I understand that very well. Building the Netherlands wants something to happen. It doesn't matter what, if anything happens. But Building the Netherlands also says that this additional emission reduction is necessary. That is not the GroenLinks program, but a club with which the CDA and the VVD normally maintain very close links. He's unhappy with this bill. Mr. Chairman. I said that this debate was not just about nitrogen, but also about a reliable government. It is about all those farmers who could have just legally expanded their farms, when it could have been known that it could not have been done, all that economic development that was given room for at the time of the PAS, when it could not actually have been done, and the huge sums that we now need to make available of community money to repair all this. And at the same time, we know there's a bill that still doesn't solve the problem. Johan Vollenbroek said this morning, when I drove here, on the radio: it is a lousy law, also with the agreement that cannot be called an agreement and also with the amendments now being tabled by SP, SGP and 50PLUS. We're gonna go to trial, and we're gonna be back here in three years. Mr. Chairman. I think that's a nightmare, because we've been assigned here to run the country, and we have to. We can't satisfy everyone. Sometimes we have to make difficult choices. But we need to know what we're working towards. And when I look back at the past few years of the PAS, I find it really embarrassing, and I find it even worse that there is now a risk of agreeing to a law that will lead to exactly the same situation in three years' time. It's actually cow business with nature; that's what I call it. I look forward to seeing what remains at the end of this debate. Following the messages I read in De Telegraaf last night, one of my collaborators sighed: this is very sobering; the rulers do anything. I think that's a sad conclusion, but I'm afraid there's some truth in it. Mr. Chairman. We will table four amendments from the law of GroenLinks. I hope they're hired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr President, thank you. Everyone who follows the list of speakers saw Mrs Ouwehand standing, but she asked me if I wanted to go for her. That's not common...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u8	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u9	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. But if that's being asked so kindly, we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u10	Then you won't say no. But I think Mrs. Ouwehand is a very friendly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u11	I wonder what I've done now. I haven't even started yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u12	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u13	I am very pleased that Mr Geurts has agreed to this. There were so many amendments tabled. I'm gonna have to read that. It is also an advantage to let your opponents go first, because then you can do them extra well in your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u14	Ooh! So, Mr. Geurts!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u15	But Mr Geurts said yes. And thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u16	Yeah, now he can't go back. He's already behind the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u17	Well, if that's gonna be the attack, I'm gonna tap it for today. Mr President, we are going to wait and see. Don't celebrate the day before it's night, someone taught me once. Mr. Chairman. When I was preparing this nitrogen day, I was reminded of a statement by Francis of Assisi. It says, "Give me the courage to change what I can change, give me the wisdom to accept what I cannot change, and give me the insight to see the difference between the two." I went on with that thought, because we are here today to talk about one of the issues that currently give the most uncertainty in rural areas. However, it is not just a matter of living, agriculture or industry; it concerns the whole of society. Because everyone emits nitrogen. When you get in your car, take the plane or turn on the light at home, but also when buying clothes, food and other products you may contribute indirectly to nitrogen emissions. The measures we take here in the Chamber to protect nature from a greater amount of nitrogen therefore affect many sectors. As a representative of the people, I therefore feel the responsibility to stand here today for the construction sector and for SMEs, but also for farmers and gardeners. At the core, we should discuss here today the effects of the deposition of nitrogen compounds on nature in the Netherlands, but also what the legal objective of achieving the critical deposition value in 50% of Natura 2000 sites by 2030 is concrete. In the province where I live, in the Achterhoek, the municipality of Winterswijk, and in the region of Twente, the excess is largely caused by foreign issues. Even if we shut down the entire economy in these areas, the objective will not be met. Our concern is that the legal anchoring will lead to the long-term closure of regional developments relating to housing, infrastructure, establishment and expansion of SMEs, not to mention agriculture itself. That is why I have the following question to the Minister. What does the present legislation provide for these regions? With so much foreign issuance, it becomes an unachievable objective. And that raises the question of which areas are identified for which the 50% KDW, i.e. critical deposition value, will apply, and for which areas are not going to apply. I'd like a response from the Minister. Together with Mr Harbers, I have tabled an amendment which instructs the government to take account of the deposition from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u18	I have a question about that. First of all... Does the CDA recognise that the Netherlands is a net exporter of nitrogen? Second. The Animal Party has already pointed out that Germany, Belgium and the other countries around us will have to comply with the same rules as the Netherlands. That is not happening, so let us talk to those countries in Europe, we said. That's what the CDA was against back then. So what is the proposal that Mr Geurts is making here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u19	The answer that Mrs Ouwehand is looking for is: yes, I recognise that more nitrogen is emitted and exported abroad than we import. Then there is the second question, the sub-question put by Mrs Ouwehand. If you read the amendment, you will see that we ask the Minister to consult the neighbouring countries when that situation arises and only then, if that does not work, to go to the European Commission. That is the amendment in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u20	With the aim of reducing deposition? Or for the purpose of simply removing that protected nature reserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u21	With the aim of achieving the 50% critical deposition value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mr. Chairman. We have seen in recent years that, as a result of the Council of State's ruling on nitrogen, many activities have been forced to remain silent. Think of the construction of housing, the implementation of infrastructure projects or the expansion of industrial sites. This is, among other things, a problem because the CDA wants to focus on improving infrastructure networks, but also on the maritime service ports on Urk and the construction of the Lelyline. The CDA also wants to address bottlenecks and use innovative solutions to increase traffic flow on roads and reduce congestion. In addition, the CDA has the ambition to build a million affordable and sustainable homes in ten years, to solve the housing shortage, but this is also hampered by the decision of the Council of State. As a solution, the Minister proposes a partial building exemption in the legislative proposal on nitrogen reduction and improvement of nature, which will allow the construction of houses again, in part or in part. However, since the Minister does not currently see the possibility of reaching a national threshold for the use phase, this means that housing can be built but no one can live in it if you say it very harshly. And I don't think that's gonna solve the housing shortage. That is why I ask the Minister what direction of solution she is seeing at the moment and when the aim is to have a solution direction implemented. Then let's look at the recent report from the PBL. I read that mobility is expected to emit more ammonia in the coming years. The policy adopted and planned has been taken into account. Could the Minister indicate whether this will lead to additional measures being taken for this source of nitrogen? And why or not? The corona conditions mean much less flying, but also the aviation sector must contribute by electrifying land-based activities such as taxiing, passenger cars, tanker trucks and so on as soon as possible. Strict requirements for fleet renewal will also contribute to both climate and nitrogen problems. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the PAS detectors and other troubles. The ruling of the Council of State has also led us to deal with so-called PAS detectors. These are farmers who have notified the government of nitrogen during the Programme Approach but whose authorisation is no longer valid as a result of the judicial decision. The result is that these entrepreneurs have gotten stuck and are legally regarded as illegal, whereas they are not in practice. But not only PAS detectors, others who acted in good faith have gotten stuck. This is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that they do not receive funding from banks and cannot transfer their business to their successor. And then I wonder: how can you ask people to think along and cooperate towards the future when their own existence is not yet legal for each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u24	I have a question and first of all a comment. I object to the CDA always saying that this and that is difficult because of the ruling of the Council of State. That's not the problem. The problem is that the cabinet, under the leadership of CDA and VVD, has not complied with its own law for decades. And at some point, the judge says something about that when someone went to court. The ruling of the Council of State is not the problem. The problem is that the government doesn't follow its own rules. My question is about the PAS detectors. We have been warned of this. I remember that very well. I was standing here at the interrupting microphone and Mr Geurts' colleague stood behind the speaker chair. I said, "What do we actually buy if you start working with legally shaky constructions? If it turns out that it is not sustainable and the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen goes down, what will these entrepreneurs buy for it?" Then the CDA's answer was: we'll see about that. And until then, the entrepreneurs have just benefited from it. Now Mr Geurts says: it is pathetic for those PAS detectors. But that's what the CDA has done knowingly, isn't it? I thought it was gambling with the farmers' legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u25	We have already dealt with Mrs Ouwehand's first point in relation to the GroenLinks legislative proposal. If that happens to be that it is all the fault of the Council of State, then I would say that this is not the case. That is what I indicated in that debate. In itself, this PAS legislation is good, but the implementation was required to deliver 10 kilotons of On the basis of the non-execution, the court of the Council of State ruled. That nuance is there. Thank you for pointing this out again, because then I can place that nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u26	I would like to make the proposal that Mr Geurts does not say it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u27	I'm sure it'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u28	Then I'll go see Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u29	But Mr Geurts was still working on his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u30	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u31	I would indeed like to touch on the second point raised by Mrs Ouwehand. That is a remark that I think will come across every six months about my predecessor Ger Koopmans. I wanted to say 'old colleague', but we have never been colleagues. That's really on him. He really put that in that debate. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u32	That was on behalf of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mrs Ouwehand, I have not limited the number of interruptions, but I do want to... Of course the debate must take place and I also know that it is an incredibly important subject, but then you know that you have to be a little picky in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u34	It is right to ensure that the debate runs from the Chair, but I also remind the Chamber that we had these problems through a nightly debate on the Crisis and Recovery Act. At that time there was little room for interruptions and the interruptions I did provided these answers. I'm just confronting the CDA again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u35	When was that, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u36	The Crisis and Recovery Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u37	When was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u38	2012, 2009.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u39	I wasn't president then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u40	You weren't president then, no. Otherwise we wouldn't have had these problems! I think we might be able to conclude that with caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u41	Well, that's clear. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u42	Back to the point. The CDA says again: it is terrible that there are entrepreneurs in uncertainty and we need a solution to this. You can say that, and so does the Party for Animals, but you have to tell me how that happened. That was because the CDA necessarily wanted an approach to nitrogen that was not legally sustainable. We knew that before. So the CDA chooses to gamble, as in some kind of casino game, with the position of the farmers. And when things go wrong, the CDA says, "Well, that's pathetic; we have to help the farmers." No, the CDA has finally got to take care of that certainty that farmers are just entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u43	I was expecting this interruption a long time ago. He comes every six months. I thought, "Am I gonna get back on top of it?" No, I am simply giving this point to Mrs Ouwehand and I am not going to repeat what I have said in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u44	Finally, I should like to say a word about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u45	My final question on this point. What responsibility does the CDA feel? They don't care about nature; I know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u46	Mr President, I object to that. In this way... I object to that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u47	Wait a minute. You guys are just getting started, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u48	Yes, we have just begun, but this debate has been going on for 15 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u49	It's just bullshit, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u50	What responsibility does the CDA feel for entrepreneurs when a law is passed, proposed by a coalition with the CDA, which once again does not comply with the rules that the government must abide by? What exactly do farmers buy for that? What is the responsibility of the CDA for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u51	I want to take responsibility for those entrepreneurs and for all the other residents of this country. And so do we. I have not yet come to a conclusion on the support of this law. That intention lies with our party. You can say a hundred times that it's not right, but that doesn't mean it's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u52	Good. Then I'll go see Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u53	Maybe it will come, but I am listening to Mr Geurts and I am only hearing him talk about increasing nitrogen emissions, when I thought we were going to have the debate today on reducing nitrogen emissions. It was Mr Geurts himself who suggested that a committee should consider what we can do to solve the problem of nitrogen; he has tabled a motion for this. The conclusions of the Remkes Committee were: not everything can be done. My question to Mr Geurts is therefore not what his wishes are, what he wants to legalize or what he wants to spend on nitrogen space, but where the CDA takes the pain of 'not everything can'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u54	I have 24 minutes to speak. Reduction measures are still under discussion, but I'm sure I'd like to give you the answer. An amendment has been tabled in which the objective to be achieved has been increased. I am going to propose to my group that we vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u55	I asked for measures. I didn't ask for an objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u56	The measures are set out in the explanatory memorandum to the law. The explanatory statement really contains a whole list of things that are going to happen. If you vote for that law, you'll agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u57	Yes, but Mr Geurts is just saying that he is going to agree to an amendment to increase the objective. The measures contained in the law of the Cabinet are intended to achieve the objective of the Cabinet. So what is going to happen to achieve this increased objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u58	If you read the amendment correctly, you will see that the deadline mentioned by the Minister is extended by five years until 2030. It's just gonna go on for five years. And yes, money will have to be added to that. That is a challenge for the new cabinet. We have now completed the budgetary procedure, but I really do see opportunities there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u59	So five more years less protein-rich animal feed? Or five more years of grazing? What measures should I think of?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u60	Look at that amendment. An evaluation session will be built in before 2028. Then you can see how far you've come. Yes, there is a considerable task for all sectors in the Netherlands. I've just appointed a few. There are challenges for aviation and mobility. All these must be filled in, I say to Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u61	Too bad Mr Geurts cannot mention any measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u62	Mr Geurts mentions a number of things that I am also concerned about: temporary nitrogen space to enable the construction of houses, but you cannot live in them. So that's not gonna happen. We see that there are numerous initiatives to establish or expand businesses, but there is no nitrogen space for that. Businesses are calling the alarm clock on this. There's got to be room for the detectors. All these problems need to be solved, but my question to Mr Geurts is: should this law not solve those problems? Does Mr Geurts consider it acceptable that these problems should continue to exist while we deal with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u63	The Netherlands is now locked. I think that the Netherlands is really moving again through this law, to send it to you in one sentence. I have every confidence in that. In this law and in the explanatory statement there are a number of cases, e.g. electrification in construction. I can mention a lot of things that are in there and are going to have to be done in agriculture. An example of what is happening at the moment: my own housing province, the province of Gelderland, has invited companies to report if they want to be bought out. This is happening in calf farming at the moment. To our surprise, there are more than 100 applications. Among them are peak loaders. I'll get to that in a minute. Similarly, peak loads are also present in other sectors. This cabinet has really spent billions to restore nature and to be able to do this kind of business. The same applies to innovations. Mrs Bromet says that I cannot give a single example, but innovations are also under way at the moment. Last week we saw an overview of VNO-NCW, which is rolling out this together with the agricultural sector. There is therefore also cooperation between different sectors. I think that's a good development. I really hope that they will be implemented on the basis of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u64	However, Mr Geurts has raised a number of points in his speech and asked the Minister what she was going to do about it. Think of the detectors and housing, so you can build by electrifying but not allowed to live in it, in many places where business expansions are not possible. There may be a lot of things that can be arranged, but Mr Geurts wouldn't ask those questions if this bill were to resolve them? Then you can't refer to the future and to what's going to happen. We have acute problems in the here and now. They're not gonna be solved by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u65	The latter is an opinion of the PvdA Group and not based on any fact, I think. Anyway, that aside. If you read the pieces correctly... I can throw the mill here over the tables, the 20 mol development reserve, 11 for that, 9 for the other, but I do not think that will benefit the debate. At least, I wasn't going to scatter numbers. But there are all the solutions. Sometimes you also have to ask the cabinet if you have read the law correctly, if this is really the outcome. Well, then the Minister confirms that, or not. And then we have another conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u66	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Mr Geurts doesn't have to believe me. You don't have to. But at least let him believe the signs of the congregations that want to build. Let him believe the signals from business. And let him believe the opinion of the lawyers on the problem of reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u67	What are you gonna answer that for? Christian Democrats and believe: yes. Mr. Chairman. Our CDA Group believes that a solution for these people should be discussed in the short term. I'm talking about the PAS detectors and the non-PAS detectors. They have a right to know what they're up to, so they can continue their operations. The CDA wants the Empire to take administrative and financial care of these companies in the process of keeping their notifications and permits legal. I have a question about that. What can the Minister do for these entrepreneurs who, as a result of the ruling that I am no longer allowed to speak about, are in trouble? What solutions is the Minister considering? When are we going to have to cut the buttons on this? Clearly, this is a very important point for the CDA, which should lead to a solution in this legal process. Together with Mr Bishop and Mr Harbers, the CDA has tabled an amendment which sets out a clear direction of resolution and a clear timetable for resolving this problem. We're curious about the Minister's opinion. Mr. Chairman. Then we go back to the cause of the problem we find ourselves in, namely the origin of nitrogen. We have seen in the explanatory statement a scheme showing that Dutch agriculture is responsible for 41% of all nitrogen that falls in the Netherlands on nature reserves. The Dutch agricultural sector has now achieved more than 65% ammonia reduction since 1990. So the sector which is largely responsible for the decline of nature in the Netherlands has reduced 65% ammonia in 30 years. If I use my sense of farming, I would think that this should have a positive effect on nature, or that this should, at least after twenty years, lead to a reduction in the deterioration of nature. The opposite is true. In the last few decades, nature seems to be getting worse. Can the Minister explain how this is possible? How sure is she that the measures we are about to take to reduce nitrogen emissions will have a positive impact on nature this time? In what way is the Minister's desire to reduce nitrogen, other than the reduction in nitrogen that has taken place in recent decades? I'm reassuring a number of Members of Parliament. I don't deny there's a problem. I don't deny that nature is bad either. It's not like I don't trust the numbers. I am merely trying to find out whether the measures envisaged will have the desired effect. The measures have considerable impact on other areas, particularly economic and social. So then we have to be sure that they contribute positively to the natural state, you would think so. The CDA Group believes that the socio-economic importance, the cultural area and regional and local specialities should be taken into account. This interest is legitimate and should also be included in Dutch law. We have tabled an amendment to that effect with the VVD. In addition, the CDA Group remains of the opinion that provinces should be given greater consideration in spatial and economic policy, taking into account the socio-economic effects of nature restoration. Mr. Chairman. Then the peak chargers. I've been reading a bunch of media reports about the peak chargers over the last few weeks. I find it horrifying how some of them were subsequently treated. This kind of short-by-the-turn message, which is talked about buying up and not moving, gives them a lot of uncertainty about their future. This is without prejudice to the need for attention to be paid to the situation of peak loaders. I have just referred to the fact that in Gelderland the province has drawn up a voluntary buying-in scheme for calf farming. As far as I can estimate now, the scheme is financially out of place and several peak loaders are included. Is the Minister prepared to provide financial support for Gelderland? And could the Minister already reflect on the external review commissioned by the Chamber in accordance with Article 3.1 of the Compatability Act, which states that the purchase of certain peak loaders could be more cost-effective? Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are much more committed to innovation. More commitment to innovation also means that entrepreneurs are given the opportunity to come up with initiatives and experiment. At the moment, this is not always the case. Last week I received an e-mail from an entrepreneur who was preparing an innovation for his stable floor, whose province of Brabant would have promised to cooperate and even contribute. However, the entrepreneur knocks on the door of the Ministry or RVO to use the investigation and development scheme of innovations for stables, and there he is told that he does not comply with the scheme without a clear justification. So he doesn't know why he's being rejected. I was told that the Ministry apparently made a number of demands, which cannot be traced how they were made, in order to be eligible for only 50% of the subsidy. This is a good example of where things often go wrong. Innovative ideas do not come off the ground, which is precisely the approach of the scheme. Perhaps Mrs Lodder's motion on driving innovation will help, but we are now running into this. I also noticed, because I was already looking at the website of the RVO, that that arrangement is temporarily closed. It's been open for a few days, and then it's, like, temporarily closed. I would like a response from the Minister on both of these aspects. And what is the state of play with regard to the Nieuwkoopse approach? Then the model AERIUS. The first question we should ask is why the government's nitrogen policy is based solely on the AERIUS model. The Minister replied in writing, but it is much more interesting to put that answer alongside the results of the Hordijk Committee. The committee says: "The degree of detail in AERIUS calculations is not in balance with the great uncertainties" according to the advisory board. And: "On the other hand, the uncertainty in the deposition calculations themselves is very high. Furthermore, a limited number of land use classes are included, which cannot approach reality. This way of calculating results in a false certainty." If we get this right, we can conclude that policy and science run through each other. Technically speaking, we can count on detail and policies based on this model, but does the model and calculation also reflect reality? That's how I keep wondering. The Advisory College considers that the current calculation methodology applied within AERIUS leads to false certainty and is not sufficiently robust. The advisory college concludes in summary "that the current calculation methodology applied within AERIUS is currently inappropriate." The CDA Group cannot and will not ignore these outcomes. The Minister will probably object to the fact that there is always a degree of uncertainty, that this model has been declared suitable for policy applications by the Council of State, and that the Hordijk Committee will also eventually step up the precautionary principle and thus declare the model to be useful as long as there is no suitable other model. Mr. Chairman. I regularly come across other models and measurements containing relevant information which does not seem to be taken into account when considering the Minister and her choice of measures. For example, TNO already does a lot of satellite measurements for the German government and we do not use that technique here in the Netherlands, at least in my opinion. Can the Minister explain why different types of models and measurements are not used? And would it not be a better idea to quickly cross the various models and measurements and draw conclusions on that basis? I think you will get a much more accurate picture of the practice. I therefore also intend to table a motion calling on the government to set up a model ensemble and also asking for a social cost-benefit analysis of the Natura 2000 sites to be carried out. Then I'll come to the external salad. I am concerned not only about the one-sided model underlying the bill, but also about the external netting. When selling the nitrogen space, 30% is returned to nature. But what if I'm a buyer of that nitrogen space and don't need the full 70% for my activities but for example only 50%? Then what happens to the 20% remaining nitrogen? The CDA wants to use the remaining nitrogen, which I call "leak nitrogen." We therefore also propose that the registration system be set up in such a way that the carbon leakage nitrogen, but also separate ammonia and the NOs, is maintained and the carbon leakage nitrogen can be used for developments. Could the Minister undertake to do so? As far as the CDA is concerned, it is essential that this carbon leakage does not disappear, but remains in the sector. In addition, I would like to hear from the Minister how she prevents agriculture from being sold off externally. I say it is not wiped out in an area, so we have a data centre so to speak, and there is no agriculture in a whole province anymore. We should avoid that. Is that possible with what we're doing right now? Mr. Chairman. I've come to add nitrogen-sensitive nature. That has been quite a fuss in the last few weeks. I have also asked written questions on this subject. The Minister's answers indicate that everything went well under a public consultation procedure, but I am surprised that few people knew about the consultation procedure then, given the many responses I received. I conclude from this that the consultation procedure was not sufficiently well known and that its importance was also not sufficiently assessed. I find it painful to see that as a landowner you can suddenly, without being informed, get the label "Nuclear" on your land. It means quite a lot for your land or the ground of your neighbor if you are identified as nitrogen-sensitive. From one moment to the next, without knowing it yourself, as an entrepreneur, you become extremely limited in your business operations, resulting in even financial damage. I therefore ask the Minister whether there really is no other way to achieve a more participatory process. And what is being done about those companies that are suffering damage as a result of that nitrogen-sensitive label? I am also considering a motion on this. I also hear sounds from people who participate in agricultural nature collectives, with a lot of effort and intrinsic involvement, that they are beginning to lose confidence in the government on this point. After a lot of efforts, they feel the threat that their farmland will suddenly be signed up as nature. How is the Minister going to regain that lost trust, as I call it, or the confidence that may be lost? Mr. Chairman. In recent times, farmers have increasingly expressed the feeling that the government is out on their land. Words such as "professional bans" are also mentioned. The basis is the scheme aimed at buying livestock farms, which started in early November. The fact that it is a voluntary scheme is not experienced as it concerns only the purchase of livestock near nature reserves. This is further fed by the addition of nitrogen-sensitive nature on agricultural land. The CDA calls on the Minister to adapt this scheme and the following so as to make it possible to relocate, but also to ensure that agricultural land remains available for continued farming. Is the Minister prepared to do this? In conversations it became clear to me that land-based nature organisations also believe that this agricultural land should remain available for agriculture. This provides a good starting point for a platform consultation between, for example, the Federation Private Land Property, Natuurmomenten, de Nederlandse Landschappen, Staatsbosbeheer, Natuur & Milieu, VNO-NCW, Bouwend Nederland, LTO and the agricultural trade unions to arrive at a kind of nitrogen agreement, which can serve as input for a coalition agreement or agreement. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. That could also be the first good implementation of my motion adopted last week, which calls on the government to establish a platform where public and private stakeholders come together to give practical effect to the political objectives set out. Mr. Chairman. I've said it before, but I'll repeat it again. A smaller area of agricultural land makes it more difficult to continue to participate globally in food production, food security, research, knowledge and product development. The CDA considers that the Netherlands' pioneering role in agriculture and horticulture is not sufficiently exploited by politics. We have Professor of International Relations Rob de Wijk on our side. He said: "With our agriculture we can still make a lot of profit. The problem is that our politics unite everything into a discussion about nitrogen." So we have to deal strategically with our agriculture. With our sought-after technology, milk powder, pork and so on, we can enforce other agreements in China, for example in the area of human rights. Does the Minister have an idea of how much ground is needed to continue to be at the forefront internationally in terms of knowledge, innovation and sustainability? I am thinking about making a motion on this, because is the Minister aware that anything that is less produced in the Netherlands needs to be produced more in other countries, as the demand for food continues to increase in the coming years, and that the standards of food quality and animal welfare in other countries are usually lower than in the Netherlands? The CDA is coming up with a motion asking for research, and I am considering that at least the strategic value, both international politics and economics, of Dutch agricultural land and agricultural and horticultural products.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr President, I will help you: I will be brief. If you see me pulling away white or watching me pull the hairs out of my head... I don't think I should do it to listen to this quatsch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u69	Well, then you're gonna do something different this afternoon. Mr President, concluding. I will not stretch the suffering of Mrs Ouwehand too much. There's a lot of emotion about the nitrogen problem. Unfortunately, here in the Chamber, we have become largely entangled in discussions about the short term. Today we are looking at the longer term. I think agriculture is one of the key sectors. Now there is only uncertainty and a sense of misconception in agriculture. There must be a perspective. Target regulations are needed that appeal to craftsmanship and not just focus on stable adjustments. In addition, there must be time and financial support to achieve the objectives. Furthermore, there must be a prospect of adequate and stable income for farmers. These conditions are necessary in order to be able to make investments. You can't do green when you're red. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u70	In part, I agree with the international dimension outlined by Mr Geurts. Sorry, Mrs. Ouwehand. The Netherlands has a lot to do with the agricultural sector on a global scale. We have the knowledge here that we have to market to my liking. But should we continue to import soya from South America in the Netherlands, which is packed here in pigs, which brings pigs alive to Spain where they get six or twelve weeks of integration after which they can be processed into ibericoham, which ends up in the Jumbo in Ten Boer under a cellophane? Do we have to produce this food with all these emissions in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u71	I say to Mr Moorlag: when he looks at the export figures, he sees that relatively few pigs still go south. That's really just a flash of what it once was. That's one. The second is: we are the world's second agricultural exporter, not on the basis of volume but on the basis of value. If we do not produce the food in the Netherlands, it will have to be imported. That is also the essence of what I am saying: let us ensure that we continue to produce as much as possible here. This is in the interests of our society and also in the interests of Europe. The other point, in which you indicate that production is getting worse, is certainly so. You can now see the warm clean-up of pig farming: the supply of pigs is falling sharply. I've lost the other point, so I'm just waiting for the second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u72	What matters to me is that we should have a good agricultural sector in the Netherlands. I am very much in favour of that. We also need to cherish the parts, for example seed and seed potatoes, seed potatoes and greenhouse horticulture, where we really create a lot of value with relatively low emissions. My question to Mr Geurts is: should we continue to push too large a sector, particularly livestock farming, with a shoe spoon in an environment area that is simply too tight? Should we keep doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u73	I like the fact that Mr Moorlag is quoting the potato sector. We also discussed this in the legislative consultation on water. Together with the VVD Group, I have tabled a motion to maintain the potato sector in the clay shell of the Wadden. I am surprised that your group voted against it. Anyway, my compliments if you voted in favour, because it was also a good motion. Then there's the other point. I just mentioned about livestock farming that the number of pigs is decreasing. It's going pretty fast right now. If you look at the graphs, the dairy farming has also decreased. For example, there are a number of sectors which are declining. The livestock pressure in the Netherlands, as you call it, is already falling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u74	Locking up. I still note that we have insoluble problems with housing and with industrial expansions, including with this law. This law should be a breakthrough, but it's not for my taste.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u75	But if you're going to descend on half the herd, you're gonna lose me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u77	I understand that I am now part of Mrs Ouwehand's list of enemies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u78	You're getting special treatment today, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr. Chairman. Today is 561 days since the day everything changed. 561 days since the Council of State issued a ruling that largely silenced the Netherlands. If we weren't in a global pandemic, today's figures wouldn't be easy again, we'd probably say it was the biggest crisis of this cabinet period. If I look back at my own contributions to the parliamentary debates of the last year and a half on the ruling, setting up the Remkes Committee, waiting for the first report, waiting for the second report, ignoring the Remkes Committee, then my main conclusion and most consistent criticism is that I think it has taken too long. In fact, that always came back to all the debates. For the SP, there are three basic principles to this law: there must be an improvement in nature, there must be a clear perspective for the resumption of housing and we must have some certainty about the legal sustainability of the law. I believe that will lead to an interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u80	I can see it and I can hear Mrs Ouwehand screaming at a distance. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u81	Before Mr Futselaar looks further ahead, I would like to ask another question which was also raised this morning and which concerns the role of the SP in the previous section. I have already said this morning that the mess we are in is caused by the PAS and by the parties who have agreed to the PAS, knowing that we knew it was not sustainable. Yet the SP also agreed at that time. How does Mr Futselaar look back on that voice of the SP at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u82	Mrs Bromet did not ask me this morning; that is why I did not answer that question. I can be quite simple about it: I think it was unwise of the SP in the Lower House to vote in favour of that law and I think it was wise of the SP in the Upper House to look again and say that he did not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u83	I'd say watch your case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u84	I have to say, my heart's a little broken. Mr Futselaar said: 'Maybe I am now one of the enemies of Mrs Ouwehand'. My heart broke a little bit. At the beginning of the speech, I have a particular question about the process. I see that the SP, along with 50PLUS and the SGP, is helping the coalition get a majority for this law. Exactly what appointments were made? We see this all the time. Does the SP still feel free to vote in favour of other amendments, or is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u85	I do not feel free to vote for everything; let me put it this way. You go into a process and you say: this is how we think that the law, within the comfort zone of everyone inside, could end somewhat. Then I cannot say in advance that I will assess each proposal on its own merits. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u86	Exactly. But that is where I hear that it is not a closed agreement, of 'these are the adjustments, we are voting for each other's amendments within the coalition club and tolerators and everything that is tabled outside is rejected'. There's no deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u87	Well, I'll certainly discuss some things with other people, but we don't rule out everything in advance from outside the group of people who discussed it. We are not doing that the other way around: I do not just assume that I will agree with everything that all these people will offer. There is, of course, a core on which we have agreed that it is the changes that we can support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u88	I understand. I understand the SP doesn't just say they're gonna agree to everything that's coming, even though they haven't read it yet. But Mr Futselaar can rest assured: the Animal Party will make a proposal that the SP has always supported. We are therefore counting on the support of the SP for such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u89	Carry on, Mr. Futselaar. Or you can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u90	I suspect that a rhetorical question will be put here in the form of an amendment. A rhetorical question usually gives you the answer you expect, I'm just saying. Mr. Chairman. I was working on the basics. As far as we are concerned, the original law submitted by the cabinet did not comply, and that was mainly because of the level of ambition. A higher level of ambition creates more nitrogen space. You can then use them for nature and you can also build more houses. Each higher level of ambition automatically makes it more legally robust. I would also add that ensuring the progress of the entire area process is a real concern for us. A little bit more about that later. I think it's okay to think about why we're doing this first. There are actually three problems: there is an ecological problem, there is a legal problem and there is an implementation problem. The implementation problem is the result of the legal problem and the legal problem is the result of decades of ignoring the ecological problem. Because what exactly is going on with our nature? Due to a structural surplus of nitrogen in the form of ammonia and nitrogen oxide................................................................................................................ This is often simplified, by saying that it concerns certain species such as nettles and blackberries. That is true in itself, but the problem goes much deeper. Certain natural areas, such as lowlands such as heaths, are under severe pressure and are likely to disappear in the long term. And with plants, insects disappear, birds disappear, and you lose an entire chain. If, like many people, biodiversity and species wealth are seen as a form of national prosperity, then this is an impoverishment. Anyway, there are also people who don't see a problem with that. They say: a cow in the meadow is also nature, what do you worry about when animal species slowly disappear? I think someone like that is coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u91	I was very surprised at the deal that has now been made with the SP to halve our poor peasantry. Because that is going to happen; so compliments to De Groot of D66 who now gets his way. But I would like to comment on this. Mr Futselaar is actually doing the same thing. He says insects disappear and birds disappear. I looked it up again, and you can see that nitrogen emissions have been falling for years. If we didn't do something right now, that drop would go on. You can read that in the pieces, and you probably know that. I also took a look at the red list of plants and animals. The Netherlands is not bad at all. You can actually see that since 2000 a lot of species have been doing very well. In the red list of plants you see exactly the same. A lot of plants are doing well or are stable. The number of endangered species is actually falling. So Dutch nature is doing quite well. That whole idea of "if we don't do something, then it's some kind of ecological disaster" is just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u92	There is often a lot of repetition in these debates too. I just tried to say, which was also somewhat preliminary, that nitrogen works cumulatively. So if you have a surplus for a very long time, then that surplus is building up all the time anyway. That's a problem. The states you have of the reduction of nitrogen over the years will undoubtedly be there. But if they continue until now, then you will also see that at the end they walk in a straight line. The decline has now ceased. That is a problem, because the construction in the natural areas is still continuing. There are indeed species in the Netherlands that are doing better, but there are also a lot of species that are not doing well, whether they are butterflies or birds. In general, there are, over and over again, quite alarming reports about the mass of insects, for example, so to speak. Even a PVV guy who actually only comes out when driving to France in the car will have to notice that the number of insects on the windshield has fallen in recent decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u93	Those are all Mr Futselaar's funny jokes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u94	Those aren't jokes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u95	All this contributes to the image that we would not be friends of nature. I can tell you that the opposite is true, Mr. Futselaar. I love nature in the Netherlands, also the nitrogen-rich nature, but I'm just looking critically at what's really happening. I look at the lists and I see that a lot of species are doing well. Take, for example, the day peacock of the same butterflies. The host plant for the day peacock is the nettle. So if you say that the day peacock is going badly and there are so many nettles, then that is not possible. That's not a causal link. I'm also concerned about the reduction of insects, but there's no causal link to the nitrogen. You can't do that. I hope that Mr Futselaar is prepared to acknowledge that he is wrong in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u96	I have tried to say the following about biodiversity, i.e. the existence of many different species. Bugs depend on the plants you have. Which plants you have somewhere, for example, depends on how much nitrogen there is. That's the essence. So it's very nice if Mr. Madlener likes the day peacock. I'm sure that'll do just fine. There are more and more nettles because they are quite nitrogen-loving plants. Then those butterflies will probably follow. However, other plants will disappear and other butterflies will disappear. I would like a Netherlands in which there are many species and in which we do not slowly go back to a very limited number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u97	The list of nitrogen-binding plants is huge. This concerns hundreds of species; hundreds of species that together can also form a beautiful ecosystem. In addition, you can argue about how that low nitrogen area, the Veluwe, came about. This has been done by years of grazing and by human action. So there's more gardening than it really is about nature. Nature adapts. Another point is that thanks to the SP the peasantry is now going to disappear. The SP, under the guise of nitrogen, is going to halve the peasantry. That costs 6 billion in taxpayers' money and the economic damage is incalculable. The SP is also the party that always supports and allows mass immigration to continue. Now Mr. Futselaar says again that houses need to be built. We hear it's a million houses. That's for 100,000 immigrants a year. Every year there are 100,000 people, that is as many people as there are living in a city like Leiden. The SP's fine with that. Then you can turn around, Mr Fuzzelaar, but these are the facts. I wonder why the SP is constantly involved in this mass immigration. And why does the SP go along with it to halve the peasantry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u98	That was not so much a question as an argument. I really admire the astonishing creativity with which the PVV desperately tries to involve immigration everywhere. I understand that, because if you're a party with few other points of view, then it's tempting to flee there. As far as the peasantry is concerned, I say the following. I'd like to ask Mr. Madlener to talk to the builders. One in three builders says: our order book is almost empty, and for God's sake, give us a nitrogen bill, because we can't move on. If Mr. Madlener votes against that law in a moment, he'll put the builders in the cold. They'll be out of work in two months. That has nothing to do with the farmers, but the builders are a much larger group, which he should really be worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u99	The latter is therefore not true, because we have tabled an emergency law which temporarily puts aside all these nitrogen rules and environmental rules. We want to address the basis of the problem, and that is the absurd fixation on low nitrogen nature. If you change that, if you stop that, we don't have to do anything at all. Air quality continues to improve. That's another way. This is better for 600,000 people working in the agricultural sector. That is better for all those farmers who now have to fear for their own future. I really think it is a very black day today, because especially the SP is dropping farmers and the 600,000 workers in that sector. I'm really, really disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u100	I am very pleased with the honourable Member's concern, which Mr Madlener seems to have in general for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u101	In the debate with Mr Madlener, I just heard Mr Futselaar say that if you vote against this law later, you will be responsible for the stagnation in housing. To be honest, I'd like to know a little bit more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u102	Let me rephrase it, because I understand Mrs Bromet's irritation: if you do not try to do something about the nitrogen problem in the short term either by agreeing to the law or possibly by coming up with a law of your own, then I think you will ensure that the major problems in construction continue for longer. That's what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u103	Okay, that's an acceptable explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u104	I suggest you move on, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u105	I'm slowly making friends again. I said there are people who say, "What difference does it make? A cow in the meadow is also nature. It's not as bad as those species disappear." But the problem is even deeper than that. Take, for example, the increasingly common drought problems we have in the Netherlands. To deal with that, your soil life is crucial. For example, there are certain fungi that ensure that the water is held and feeds roots. But these fungi are particularly sensitive to too much nitrogen. So by acidification we are slowly destroying our own soil life and thus the ability to grow things. Those are the predictable effects. If you let ecosystems change, you also get unpredictable effects. This is not all happening in our neatly framed Natura 2000 sites. This is happening everywhere in the Netherlands where there is too much nitrogen, and that is in many parts of the Netherlands. I would like to ask the Minister the following question: what are we going to do about all those areas outside the Natura 2000 areas where we also have too much nitrogen and where you can see the negative effects of it? Because it is not just a legal problem; it is also just an ecological problem. Mr. Chairman. The legal problem is also there. The Netherlands has 162 Natura 2000 sites, with a commitment under the European Birds and Habitats Directive to ensure that special species are in a favourable state of conservation. We're failing in that obligation. That is ultimately the cause of the ruling of the Council of State. Moreover, there are quite a few misunderstandings about Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands. That's how I often hear the rounds say we'd have a lot of them. On the contrary, we have very few at European level. For example, France has more than 2,700. They are not big in the Netherlands either. On average, they're pronouncedly small. Yet you can see that there is a constant urge on some parties to delete or redefine some. Well, we already knew that wasn't possible. That was reviewed by two external agencies this summer. The answer was twice: no, there's really nothing you can do about it. I just want to say that I always get a little depressed when I see that crap coming back into election programs. I would like to give each party a life in a different reality, but will we stop using agencies to answer questions that we already know the answer to? 'Cause that's just a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u106	I am not sure whether Mr Futselaar is talking about the corridor to Brussels. Mrs. Ouwehand just asked: where is the SP now? What amendments have we got a whole stack of them, and which have they not been dealt with? There is also one who says: we must question the Birds and Habitats Directives in Brussels if we do not achieve certain objectives. Is that an amendment? 17 that the SP is going to support, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u107	If all the feasible things are done, so if everything is done, if the Netherlands has done everything to try to comply with the KDWs, to reach the border, then you will talk to Brussels about what we can do with this. But that's the condition. That is just what the Habitats Directive says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u108	But that's already real, isn't it? You don't have to support an amendment, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u109	No, but then it doesn't cost so much to support an amendment, I'll just say like someone who makes agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u110	No, but I'm more concerned with the image that you start every time with something that we've long left behind, which is to question Natura 2000 in the Netherlands. I think that is a bad thing, because that creates expectations. I also mentioned a reliable government in my speech. It is much better to say as a government: this is what we want with nature, we have made international agreements about it, and we do not go to Brussels every year to try to nibble about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u111	I would find that very unwise, but I am also trying to combat this image here by saying that I think it is nonsense that Natura 2000 sites should be deleted. People have been trying for years, and I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u112	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u113	Mr. Chairman. Is the law legally sustainable? Then you have to look closely at the Birds and Habitats Directives. The Cabinet states that the Birds and Habitats Directives do not essentially set a deadline for achieving a good conservation status. This is a flexibility that the cabinet often makes grateful use of. However, Article 6 (2) of the Habitats Directive does not allow any deterioration in conservation objectives. The Cabinet recognizes that, too. However, we are going to have a legislative proposal that does not rule out any deterioration, not now, not in 2030, and not even with amendments in 2035. The cabinet argues in general: deterioration is not allowed, but under Article 2 (3) there is no time limit for, say, the period in which deterioration is not allowed to end. Actually, they say it can't be done, but there's no time limit for you to stop doing it. That's a little legal gymnastics, I say. At the same time, I do not think anyone can deny that, even with the most stringent measures you could take tomorrow, your Netherlands is not getting it to comply with Article 6 (2) of the Habitats Directive because that deterioration is continuing in practice. Then you finally come to the question: what can be reasonably expected of the Netherlands? There is a sliding scale where it is uncertain where the breaking point lies, but the higher you set the target, the more likely you will eventually be close. Furthermore, in the reply, the Cabinet fails to clarify exactly what can be invoked under Article 2 (3) of the Habitats Directive. That is the deviation for social, economic and cultural reasons. The SP does not actually see these reasons, unless we argue that denying a nitrogen problem is a Dutch cultural tradition. There's something to be said for that, but I don't think that's enough ground to stand in court. Can the Minister explain exactly what these social and economic reasons are? The judge will want to hear it eventually. As I said, in the end, legal sustainability falls or stands first and foremost with the level of ambition chosen. As far as the SP is concerned, the original proposal is too low to pass a legal test. Is the level of ambition I propose in an amendment ideal? No, far from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u114	I was reminded of what Mr Futselaar just said about the socio-economic aspects of this policy. Mr. Futselaar is actually waving it away. He says, "That's just bullshit." Mr Futselaar, I would like to remind you that there are thousands, thousands of agricultural families in the Netherlands who can keep their heads above water with a small farm. Thanks to your deal, your voting behavior, they no longer see the future. They see their children... It's often generations to generations. Our countryside is characterized by a tradition. You're about to throw it in the trash. Thanks to the SP you say: look at it; that does not exist at all as far as we are concerned. That's too bad for words!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u115	Then let's go into it a little more deeply. What exactly is this law going to do, according to Mr Madlener, for a smaller dairy farmer? What exactly is she being done to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u116	I think Mr Futselaar knows that too, but he is afraid to say that here. A target of 50% nitrogen reduction is set. This can only be achieved with very expensive techniques. It can't be done without these expensive techniques. And do you know who's going to do these expensive techniques? Those few big companies. All these small family and family businesses don't have the investment power to do that. They are already afraid for their future. They now see that future going into the trash because of the SP's voting behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u117	If I understand correctly, Mr Madlener's big words about what is being done to farmers are to be reduced to the accusation that there is a subsidy scheme for the innovation of stables. If that is doing terrible things to people, then I think there are more people in this country who would want something terrible to do to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u118	Mr Futselaar is ignoring all these farm protests, all those farmers who fear for their future and fear that their children will no longer be able to take over the business. Young people can't start a farm anymore. This trend has been going on for years: scaling up and everything is constantly but more expensive. You now have not only your land, but also phosphate rights, nitrogen rights and expensive barn floors. Soon we'll have to lock the cows in one of those airtight stables, with expensive grill floors and separate things. That's a million-dollar investment. You say yes, but I come with subsidies for those people. That's not a future for those farmers, is it? How can you draw a line with one stroke of pens through the future of thousands of families, when this is truly a tradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u119	I note that Mr Madlener has listened carefully to the fears and concerns of farmers, but has not bothered to read the bill and the explanatory statement, because what he is saying here is absolutely nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u120	Then I would like to explain why this is nonsense, because I see that a 50% reduction in nitrogen is not feasible. All farmers in the Netherlands know that. This can only be achieved by draconian measures or by a massive reduction in livestock. That's what's gonna happen. You know that too, so explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u121	I'll try. The reduction objective is a task for the government. There is absolutely no question of an individual farmer being paid for that. It's the government that has to make that happen. The government makes that happen with a series of programmes, for example the voluntary purchase of farms. That's voluntary. Yes, Mr. Madlener. That's what's been arranged in practice. If you're going to yell that this is done to them all... They can say no and they won't. That's how a voluntary buy-back scheme works. You can invest to make sure you get new stables. That's how an investment grant works. The doom that you're putting down... Don't get me wrong: the figure of 50% is big; a lot has to be done for that. Absolutely. But you say that the peasantry is cut by half, and that does not make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u122	I predict that the number of agricultural entrepreneurs will increase by more than half, because our competitiveness is falling dramatically. Foreigners think, "Fine, we're not doing it. Come here, all of you, because we do produce." You are completely destroying an export sector with this law, with these unfeasible goals. All farmers in the Netherlands know that. Go on dreaming that it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u123	Obviously, we both have our dreams. Only, one of them is a little closer to reality. I would've stayed with the construction. It is perhaps the biggest direct victim of the Council of State's ruling, as it stopped a large number of projects. This had a direct impact on housing and ultimately on employment, on the position of construction companies and on municipalities that want to plan. The reduction in the speed limit has made a number of projects smooth again, but that is not a permanent solution, because you will lose that space at some point. This means that the proposed exemption from construction offers some relief. As far as the SP is concerned, that is one of the most important elements of this bill. However, many problems have not yet been solved in the field of housing. In addition to the nitrogen crisis, we also have a housing crisis. Not all planned residential areas can remain unbuilt. It is also very difficult for municipalities to make plans now, because there is a lot of uncertainty. So not only do we not build the neighborhoods; they are not scheduled either. This also creates a housing crisis in the future. That's a problem. So we need to look, even now, where unnecessary regulation is still holding back housing in practice. In addition, of course, we just need to make more nitrogen space available. Then we come back to ambitious goals. Mr. Chairman. The program is attached to the law, but is not part of the material legal text itself. On the advice of the Supervisory Board, it has of course been added to the explanatory memorandum. So it makes sense to talk about it, even if it hasn't worked out everywhere. Overall, we are talking about 3 billion in nature measures and 2 billion in resource measures for the next 10 years, and an additional billion in construction. Presumed: these are serious amounts. I'd just like to say that. It has been a long time since, for example, so much extra money was allocated to nature. I doubt it's enough for the next ten years; that's what I'm saying. But it's definitely an important first step. As the cabinet itself says: if it turns out that it is not enough to achieve the goals, then there will have to be more or something else to change. It is an important point, however, how the money should be spent. There I can see some difference between the cabinet and the SP, for example when it comes to source measures. As I have also described in an own-initiative paper, as far as we are concerned, you start with the biggest peak burdeners in source measures. There is the fastest way to achieve the greatest profit. That also means that you use tax money as efficiently as possible. If other targets can be taken into account, such as climate targets, then that is important. A recent publication by Investico has only confirmed that there is still something to be done. In addition, you can do other things, but I think buying out companies in practice is often the best solution to deal with them efficiently. In addition, the cabinet chooses to invest in the innovation trail. I would like to say that I am sceptical about that. That's mainly because of the past. I refer to the report of the Committee of Experts on Fertilisers Act on low-emission stables. That wasn't as much as we hoped. I refer to the combined air scrubbers of the past. That wasn't as much as we expected. There's a risk. The SP does not deny that technical innovations can make a profit in this area, but we do doubt whether it is wise to use so much on this track, also because in the end you will only guarantee the survival of a stable more if you invest in it. We would have preferred it to be different. It also depends very much on how it is spent with natural money. We recently received the Natural Pact from the Minister. I have to admit that I have only studied it superficially, but it does put considerable emphasis on recovery measures in nature reserves to compensate for the deterioration. That is largely not a sustainable solution, because if you recover but nothing else happens, you will be recovering every few years. You're actually burning taxpayers' money. So we see more in expanding nature reserves to strengthen them and, precisely, connecting nature reserves. Now I also see in the Natural Pact money for purchase and decor. I also see something for the transition areas, which Remkes advises among others. That's great, but I wonder if that could be a little bit better. So let me ask the Minister: is this ambitious enough for nature? Mr. Chairman. In the end, it is not the minister who deals with nature, but the provinces. We've decentralized it. That is something that has been said this morning. They will have to do most of the work in progress in the ongoing process of the area. There, peak chargers must be bought up, nature reserves must be built and so on. The challenges are great, and it must also be done quickly. That is quite complicated, also for provinces, because the progress in these processes is, to say the least, variable, I see when I look around. I know provinces. They tend to act as a linker of the rural area and to get parties together for long-term, thorough regional processes. In it, everything is considered integrally with ten men. They're usually men... around a table with a map on it, and then you go see if you can move on. But that is not always the best way to achieve objectives quickly. How does the Minister see this? Are the provinces able to make those choices? Then there is a point that has been referred to before. I heard a deputy say, "I can't get the information on what the peak loaders are." I don't think that's possible. I read about a deputy who said, "I don't want to know what the peak loaders in my province are." That scares me. I have heard a deputy who said about a peak loader, a poultry farmer, near a nature reserve: yes, buying up high-emission farms we see as a responsibility of the Empire. That scares me, too. So there is a danger there, and I am not saying that to accuse the provinces, because I also see that good things are happening. But you have the danger that the Empire will invent a task and say that the provinces that are going to do it, and the provinces are going to do it and say that they are not going to make it, and then refer back to the Empire: boys, you have to do more, otherwise we won't make it. That's not the way you're gonna have to make it eventually. So I'm looking to secure that. There will probably be another amendment to that effect in the course of the day. Mr. Chairman. I'm heading for a roundup. Last night, the SP made agreements with a very wide range of parties, including a number of coalition parties, all of which have a very different picture of how to deal with the nitrogen dossier. The making of this agreement has been the result of our realization that the alternative is actually that a law is being shot down in the First Chamber and then nothing happens in the coming months. And if nothing happens, that means it's gonna be after the election. And after the elections, this will go along with a subsequent coalition formation, and then we run the risk of having to wait another six or nine months until there is a nitrogen law. That was the first reason for us to say: then we will see if we can make this law better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u124	I saw Mr Moorlag at first, but he does not mind if Mrs Ouwehand interrupts first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u125	If you hadn't known better and hadn't followed the messages from the spokesperson of the LNV ministry last night, who tweeted that there were agreements that the Chamber knew nothing about, although I also saw Mr Futselaar on the picture, you'd think on the basis of today's SP input: oh, well, fortunately, they're still very critical. I hear one objection after another and one insight after another. I am very pleased that Mr Futselaar is bringing it in, because I heard the CDA group ask the Minister: how can you actually reduce nitrogen but that does not improve nature? Well, that's because that shit stays in the bottom. That accumulates and the effects get worse. And then it gets dry too, so the effects get much worse. So my question is as follows. If the SP is so keen on what is not going well, why does the SP want to agree to a law that is already proven to be legally insufficient to guarantee and provide legal certainty and not enough to protect nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u126	I'm going to answer that question in general, but first I would like to say something about legal certainty, because that's just a serious point. Can I guarantee that this law will stand? The answer is no, but I will say something about that. If we had chosen the Remkes definition here, could I have guaranteed that the law would stand? No. Because if you take a sec look at the Habitats Directive, we are constantly breaking it, as I said. We do that every day, and we keep doing that for a while. So hopefully there will be some time when a judge says: this level of ambition is high enough to say that the Netherlands is doing what it can reasonably do to counteract that deterioration. I see the alternative is that nothing happens for the next three, six, nine months. Normally you say to a minister "that law is no good; come back again," but this Chamber will meet four weeks after next week, I think, and then we will be quiet for two months because of the elections. After that, at least for months because of coalition formation, there will be no legislation. Then nothing happens for a very long time. I think this is a very frightening picture, for nature, where little happens, for housing, where little happens and for construction, where more and more will be made redundant. That's just a nightmare. This means that I have said with my group: we are going to see if we can make the law, which we think is bad, better. Is that a good law? No, I don't think so. But it's a better law. And yes, then we have made the choice to agree. Then I can tell you with the agreements we make against remembrance that played on all sides; no one has left cheerfully at least start. That has been the background to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u127	In other cases such a reasoning could go on: well, it is not right; let's see if we can make it better. But not, not in the case of the nitrogen problem. I mean that these rules have been in force since 10 June 1992 and the cabinet still refuses, with or without the support of anyone, to respect them properly. Mr Futselaar is right: if we had followed Remkes, we would still have no guarantee. No, the criticism of experts on Remkes was that that 50% really is the minimum you have to do within ten years; 70% is better. So you should have moved that way. The second point was that nothing happens. Yeah, I do. The government's policy has been shot off. That means you're being thrown back into the state of pre-Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. That's the Nature Protection Act, including all case law. The government just needs to maintain it. That deterioration of nature is not allowed. So what the SP should have done is to say: maintain, cookers, and come up with, as soon as possible, a legally sustainable construction for nature and farmers, but also for taxpayers. Because that's the last point I want to tell the SP. The PAS has led the State to commit itself to authorisations that are not legal or that do not hold if you look at the Birds and Habitats Directives. Buying out costs a lot of money. What is the SP going to pay that of when she rightly says with the Party for Animals that you should invest in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u128	I wish Mrs Ouwehand every success in her 'go maintain, bakers' speech to the cabinet. I just don't think that equipment is going to change much in practice. I see the situation as it is now. I see the housing shortage we know in the Netherlands. I see the problems in construction. I see the state of our nature reserves. There is now a pot of money to invest. Is this what I want? No. Is this how I would have done it? No. But I am now faced with a choice: whether for months there will be no policy, after all, that will be the consequence: either total standstill or a step forward towards improvement on a number of fronts. In this case, the SP chooses the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u129	No, Mrs. Ouwehand, I'm going to see Mrs. Bromet. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u130	GroenLinks takes legislation very seriously. We also think it is important that when we study a law we can think very well about whether it is legally sustainable. We do not know that ourselves, so we discuss this with experts. I do object to the course of events for the last 24 hours. There is now a whole bunch of amendments. This morning, we've had the legal treatment of my own law. We had a half-hour lunch break and now we're back here. I have two amendments here. In between I have been able to have contact with the nitrogen professor in the Netherlands. It says about the amendments to Parts Nos. 17 and 18 that they just can't. And on the amendment to item No. 18 Mr Futselaar has just said that he is going to support it. How does Mr Futselaar look at his entire speech that he is now going to save the cabinet because otherwise nothing will happen? Do you have to pass a rattling law that may not be stranded at the Council of State for another three years, allowing us to start all over again? We know what that scenario looks like, because that's what we're in the middle of. Or does Mr Futselaar say that it is important that proper legislation is adopted in the Chamber, rather than snacking on an afternoon or at night because we would like a deal to be reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u131	First of all, on the timing of the amendments. I think that is always justified criticism. I would point out, however, that about ten minutes before I sent out the first of my amendments, I saw some of Mrs Bromet pass this legislation. So we are not the only ones who come up with amendments quite late. Let me put it this way. I would also add that I do not owe timely information to this Chamber. That's the Minister. You can appeal to them, not to me. When it comes to the soundness of the legislation, the proposers think it can be done. I assume that they have informed us of this and otherwise the Minister will undoubtedly be able to advise us on the feasibility. That's always the first source you ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u132	Then I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether she has made a legal check on these two amendments. To Mr Futselaar I would like to say that the amendments tabled by GroenLinks are simply one-on-one taken from our own initiative law. Mr Futselaar was well aware of this in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u133	Then I'll go to Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u134	I do appreciate the way in which Mr Futselaar has opened up his considerations. What I also appreciate is a willingness to compromise. Politics is the art of compromise. A compromise always strikes a balance between what is desirable and what is feasible. We had set up the Remkes Committee to find a balance between what is desirable and what is feasible. My question to Mr Futselaar is: why is he being overtaken by the Remkes Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u135	For the sake of clarity, I was not in favour of setting up the Remkes committee, as was Mrs Ouwehand. I felt that the cabinet should get to work immediately and that we should not wait a year until there was an opinion from a committee. I take that advice seriously; I want to be very clear about it. I would have preferred to have that advice translated, but that was not negotiable for the people who made an appointment, because they all want something different. And then you come out of something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u136	Let us then first establish that a balance would be possible. This has been stated by authoritative people: the Remkes Committee, a committee full of liberals and confessions. That balance between feasibility and desirability is at a higher level than a compromise that the SP has now reached. That would still be worth digesting for me if it was the great task we face... I am thinking of the young people who cannot find a home. We received a letter from the municipality of Zaanstad, where the housing is still. This law does not provide a solution in this form, even if it has been amended. I really think that's an indigestible thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u137	Maybe I have a motion for the second term specifically about the municipality of Zaanstad. It is rather separate from the law, but I do see opportunities to create space for that, simply by looking at regulation and dealing with it in a different way. I would add that this only applies to a number of cases in the country. I don't know if it was you or Mrs Bromet, but one of you, I believe, also mentioned Arnhem and Nijmegen. There's about the same thing. There may be room there, but it is not possible to solve it now. That's a specific case. In general: yes, I agree with Mr Moorlag. It should be better. That's right, but we're not there yet. Mr President, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u138	I thought you were done already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u139	I was almost done, but I have such a nice lock, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It has come to a compromise. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's It's a compromise. We have to be honest about that. And no one has ever fallen in love with a compromise. Even after the amendment, the law is not ideal, but as far as we are concerned it is significantly better than it was. Given all the problems that are coming towards us, doing nothing is simply not an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u140	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Then I give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u141	Mr. Chairman. Although the nitrogen problem is no longer in the news every day because of the corona crisis, it is unabatedly large and hampers economic development. That alone is sufficient reason to move quickly now and to finally launch the whole package of measures presented by the government in the spring. The way out of the nitrogen problem is complex, but it does not help deny that there is a problem. Many look at Natura 2000 with mixed feelings and the way it was done ten to twenty years ago, but last year's judge's ruling was clear. In nitrogen-sensitive areas, you actually have to compensate. You can no longer live on the puff. As much as you might like to say in a manner of speaking, 'a little less tooth with Natura 2000', it only leads to a line in court through permits for both agriculture and all construction activities. The Minister agreed with the Chamber a year ago to launch the study, which looks at ways of cleaning up and reorganising Natura 2000, targets or sub-targets and their feasibility. That investigation is done. It is a bit easy to conclude that in all areas the goals are still to be achieved, but that again ignores the question: with what efforts, at what cost and with what social consequences? What is the Minister's view of this and what is she going to do with the provinces? Speaking on this subject, I would also like to add my voice to the questions that Mr Geurts has already asked about the addition of nitrogen-sensitive nature, which has been on the news a lot in recent weeks. Landowners often found out with surprise. You should be able to do better than that. I would like to draw attention to the Geurts amendment, which I have co-signed, on the need to take account of economic, social and regional factors. Mr. Chairman. Given the need to re-launch the authorisation of construction and economic activities, the VVD supports the legislative proposal, as I pointed out in the main debate on this approach in June. The creation of a threshold for construction is particularly important. The VVD is therefore very pleased that the cabinet also makes more resources available for this purpose, for the sustainability of building materials. In the debate in June on the cabinet approach, I already mentioned this. In the initial plans, EUR 25 million had been made available. That's a bit of a tip compared to the support that other sectors get. The amount of 500 million now available helps construction to substantially reduce the emissions of construction equipment, as well as the additional 500 million that is behind hand to cope with even more setbacks. The VVD welcomes the fact that the cabinet also provides generous financial support for this sector, as this offers extra comfort for construction. Mr. Chairman. In order to get a start on the law in sectors which will soon be part of the solution, the problem of PAS detectors must first be solved. These are farms, mainly agricultural holdings but also in many other sectors, which had such a small nitrogen emission that they did not need a permit under the PAS approach but could be satisfied with a notification. In that case I immediately involve the group that did not even have to make a report, because he had an even smaller deposition, the notification waivers. After the judge's ruling, they're all legally outlawed. In the absence of authorisation, it is necessary to maintain it in due course. Companies can't be sold. In the absence of a permit, they cannot be transferred. Banks are struggling about outstanding loans. Yeah, you can't even flip externally with a company like that, while the entrepreneurs have acted according to the rules and done nothing wrong. It is therefore important that the previous commitment made by the Minister to grant these PAS detectors and PAS exemptions from the source package is also enshrined in the law. That is what we have included in the amendment to item No. 19, with the colleagues Bishop and Geurts. I also have two questions for the Minister. Does she want to talk to the banks, as we discussed in the previous debate on nitrogen, so that they too can understand what this legal anchoring means and not leave these companies in the cold unnecessarily financially? I am also considering a motion on this point. How does she deal with the costs these PAS detectors have to incur in order to deliver new data for the licence? Could there be a concession for that? Mr. Chairman. The approach in the law...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u142	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u143	I'm going to a new topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u144	Okay. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u145	Let's talk about the detectors and the legalization of those detectors. The question is a little similar to the one I asked Mr Geurts. It's about nitrogen reduction today, but I also heard the VVD talk about legalizing detectors. What does that even mean? How much nitrogen space do those detectors need? Do you or do you not have to take it somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u146	I assume Mrs Bromet has also seen that that's just in the law. It's in the source package. Part of it is also reserved for the detectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u147	So from the ambition set out in the Cabinet Act, do you actually have to subtract the nitrogen space that will soon be taken by the detectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u148	No, because that's already included. There's enough mole in there to get the cabinet's ambition. On top of that, the package of measures contains enough moles, in the development reserve, to permit the detectors. That was in the law from the start. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the absence of an individual permit, people still feel the ice falling under their feet legally. So we have to offer them more comfort that it's really gonna be okay. That is what the amendment says, namely to anchor it in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u149	I'm gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u150	That's good. Proceed, Mr. Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u151	Mr. Chairman. The approach of the bill includes improvement of nature. We support this as a VVD, because as nature is in better condition, it also hinders economic development less. It also includes a sensible mix of source measures to reduce nitrogen blankets across the Netherlands. The pass-through by the PBL shows that the package of measures can achieve the environmental value by 2030. That's important to us. The objectives must be ambitious, but they must also be achievable. That was our criticism today of the previous bill. But that does not mean that nothing needs to happen after 2030. So such an increased ambition can be laid down for the period after 2030, in this case 2035 in the amendment tabled for it, as we as coalition parties have also discussed and with the SP and 50PLUS. Three things are important to us. First of all, we're doing everything we can, but not the impossible. So if you've done everything, but you can't achieve those goals here and there because of climatic conditions, for example, a few dry years or for example increasing deposition from Belgium and Germany in the border region, where that deposition ideally decreases, there still has to be a solution. To record this, the amendment I tabled with Mr Geurts applies. Secondly, the programme of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u152	I saw you look. Short, Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u153	I also have a question about this, because 'doing everything possible'... we also had a debate this morning on how much money you reserve to solve the problem of nitrogen. I believe that Mr Harbers himself said that 12 billion could not. Are there budgetary limits to "doing everything you can do"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u154	No, there are no budgetary limits at the moment. By the way, you have to look at the whole package. In doing everything possible, you should also look at what Mrs Bromet also criticises about what is in the Habitats Directive. Also include the social, economic, regional, cultural aspects if you have done everything you can. But we just know that there are areas in the Netherlands that are so close to the border that you are just more dependent on what happens in Germany or Belgium than what you do in the Netherlands. You know that in the long run there may also be areas where you so to speak take away all activities in an environment, up to living, and still have too much deposition from abroad. I mean, there are situations, and we should just prepare for them, where you also give the Minister a title to go to the European Commission and say, "Oh, what do you expect us to do?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u155	We're talking about feasible and affordable. And so affordable is that you've just spent all the money you can spend to make it possible, I understand from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u156	The VVD is never just gonna spend all the money on something that's impossible. Secondly, the post 2030 action programme does not need to be completed until 2028. That is also good, because at that point you can see what, for example, autonomous development is already doing. After 2030, the climate agreement will continue to make industry more sustainable and make mobility more sustainable. You can take that all into consideration. But you can of course foresee that even after 2030 further measures will still be requested, for example the continuation of measures that are now included in the agricultural package and which require farmers to invest. For example, in barn measures and further investment in innovative techniques, because not everyone will have done so. As far as we are concerned, however, we will not be talking about this until 2028, as in the coming years, we will have to be financially supported by the government. Society requires a lot of these entrepreneurs to save nitrogen. There is also financial support and opportunities for this. Thirdly, it is also important for this reason that agriculture not only gets clarity for the next generation of fifteen years but also comes to the table to talk from its own craftsmanship. A broad agricultural agreement, Mr Geurts mentioned, could also provide for this. By providing a perspective on the measures and the time limit for which they are requested, or their financing. By offering the opportunity to farm, through the corresponding earning opportunities and, not insignificantly, by having and continuing to develop a sector that is sufficiently large and which is celebrated for its knowledge and which benefits many countries in order to feed their own people better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u157	Mr Madlener, brief questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u158	The VVD talks about doing everything possible to reduce that nitrogen and comes up with budgets, because it's going to cost billions of taxpayers' money. Apart from the damage to the economy it is causing us, because I guarantee that our competitiveness will deteriorate. The VVD even wants to electrify cranes from construction companies because they are running for 15 minutes on a construction site. There comes a nitrogen amount that is comparable to the excrement of a goose. And even then hundreds of millions of dollars in taxpayers' money will be spent on it. So everything the VVD wants to do to comply with those own rules that the VVD itself came up with, that Natura 2000. My question is: does the VVD also look at immigration? Over the past period, 100,000 immigrants per year have been added net in our country, in our busy country. For this, perhaps a million houses need to be built according to the VVD. How much nitrogen emissions does that give?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u159	I'm gonna try to tear this shack up a little bit. The damage to the economy takes place, but it continues if you do not support the law, because then you have no exemption for the construction and you have no nature restoration that makes permit granting possible again. If Mr Madlener is really concerned about the damage to the economy, then he would do well to support this law. Secondly, the self-defeated hutspot of Natura 2000. No, we are critical of that too; see my previous questions. The million homes to be built in the Netherlands are mainly for the people who already live in the Netherlands. For example, you can see that households are getting smaller and more homes are needed. And yes, Mr Madlener knows that we are in favour of a restrictive migration policy and have put forward many proposals in this area and have also introduced many measures over the past ten or fifteen years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u160	Yeah, I know what the VVD always confesses. Those are all great stories, promises that don't end up with anything. You can't just say that these construction companies I know what to invest for minimum nitrogen emissions from a tap that is running for a while, while the mass immigration that is under your policy, under VVD policy... You were even Secretary of State! Thanks to you, 100,000 people have entered the Netherlands every year. That's a city the size of Leiden, every year! All these houses are for people who already live here? You sent them to Holland! That's not what you're talking about. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u161	Think of your heart a little bit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u162	Mr President, this is indeed a matter of concern to me, because I see my country becoming overcrowded. Policies of this kind of politicians, who shout all kinds of things... farmers have to leave the country, halve the livestock. Those are the parties Mr. Harbers of the VVD deals with. I see that happening, while on the other hand the borders are wide open and the Poles and I know what is coming here from the Middle East. The VVD likes that. All good! And then we have to build houses, and those farmers have to give way to that. That is the policy of the VVD. That is what I want to say here, and I want the VVD to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u163	My point was to slow down a little bit, but none of that has helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u164	Sorry, some things just hurt me. It is also one of the reasons why I am at the PVV, with the good party, in politics: to raise this problem. We cannot continue to stamp our country, to keep our borders open and, at the same time, to bully the farmers away. It's a waste of our beautiful land. I do care about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u165	I'm just gonna go quietly and tell Mr Madlener what's really going on. Yeah, construction companies have emissions, too. We really want them to be able to build. That is why there is a generous money pot, EUR 1 billion, to allow those construction companies to make the battle for preserved equipment. Construction equipment has the unbearable habit of being indestructible, so if you don't, it lasts another ten, twenty years. We can now make the battle to make it more sustainable. And yes, the VVD is strict for people who have no right to stay here. We are looking very critically at all those who come from outside the European Union. But Mr Madlener should not pretend that there would be no construction problem in the Netherlands at all if you closed all borders. Mr Madlener always forgets that the two countries from which we have the most immigration are Belgium and Germany. I have never heard of Mr Madlener's life a proposal to stop that kind of immigration. I wouldn't want that myself, by the way. We have open borders and we benefit greatly from them in the Netherlands. With neighbouring countries, it is all just fine. Yes, that also means that sometimes some houses need to be added in the Netherlands. We all want to make that possible. We want to keep the construction going. We are in favour of a restrictive migration policy, but do not pretend that this is the solution to the nitrogen problem. That's really fucked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u166	Finally, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u167	The VVD wants this and that and doesn't want to talk about this. I get that, because that's painful for the VVD, but it's the facts. A city like Leiden emits a lot of nitrogen, I can tell you, Mr. Harbers. All these people want to drive a car, too. The first thing the immigrants do is buy a car. They want them, of course, and they want a nice house and everything. Dutch people will suffer from this, because there are no houses for Dutch people anymore. And you go on and on! I'd like to have said that here. Now the farmers can pay the price. Our beautiful agricultural sector can halve. Because you bet your ass that nitrogen target is unfeasible. The smaller farms will no longer have a future. Let me end with the question: Mr. Harbers, how many farmers does the Netherlands still have in 2035? Did you do the math? Have you calculated the effects of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u168	Yet again, because Mr Madlener does not want to hear the facts. The nitrogen emissions from houses, housing and traffic are minimal compared to other sectors. It is precisely because there is a great deal of nitrogen going into agriculture, but also because there are good opportunities to limit it, that we have advocated that it should be fortunately realized that farmers are heavily supported in this way, especially in order to be able to make these investments. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u169	How many farmers are left in 2035?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u170	Oh, yeah. That's a choice for every farmer himself. What I stand for is a policy that doesn't force those farmers. If you want to go through farming, you have to be able to go through farming, because you have good financial support for it. Public policy will not lead to a massive reduction in livestock. How many cattle there is with each farmer, whether that is scaling up or scaling down, that is up to the farmers themselves. Anyone who wants to farm through must also be able to make that choice financially. There should not only be a financial opportunity to stop. This must be balanced and this policy makes it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u171	I heard Mr Geurts earlier and now Mr Harbers talking about a broad agricultural agreement. Mr Harbers knows that I am interested in this, because I have argued earlier that this polarisation between nature and agriculture should end. It is not that if you are for nature, you would be against agriculture, and vice versa, that you would be against nature if you were for agriculture. We need to get rid of that. The PvdA very much wants a broad agricultural-nature food agreement with a good and stable earning model for farmers, with better nature and with better food for our people. We have never had so much food, but the paradox is that there have never been so many people sick of our welfare food in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u172	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u173	My question is: how can it be that I tabled a motion in 2017 and also in the last budget debate to conclude such a broad agreement and that it has not been supported, even though it is now being advocated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u174	I was not present at this budget debate and now we are looking at it with a number of parties, who may find each other in the course of the debate. If you're going to have this law and all the dust that's been pulled away over the past year, maybe it's time to just sit around the table with that law in hand. This applies to parties in the agricultural sector, but they will soon have something extremely attractive, which other parties might also want to talk about, for example VNO-NCW, Building the Netherlands and others. It is also good to ask the cabinet to see if this discussion can get going properly, so that the agricultural sector is put back in a position to make things possible again for the rest of society. We will see where that leads in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u175	A short question and a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u176	I note that there is movement in that area. In all the gloom that gives me a glimmer of optimism. I would like to talk to those who support this idea of how this could be designed. In the short term, it will not produce anything, but we also need a long-term perspective. That is not enough for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u177	That was a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u178	I'm always happy when I've been able to make someone a little more optimistic. Mr. Chairman. Part of the ambition is to create a development reserve to compensate for projects of national interest. This reserve doesn't exactly hold. At the same time, there is no easy way to get more space. The Minister is working with EZK to further identify the need for nitrogen space in the coming years and additional possibilities for getting that space, she wrote to us. My question to the Minister is what we need to understand here and at what rate. To illustrate the need for the development space, I would like to mention a few examples. In the coastal provinces of Zeeland, South Holland and North Holland, for example, we see a complicated issue because there are hardly any source measures to enable new developments. After all, the deposition comes from abroad, from sea, from sea-going vessels off the coast, from ship generators in ports. How's the minister looking at this? How can the Empire help to reduce this nitrogen deposition? What is possible, for example, in maritime transport, but also in shore-based ports and perhaps in inland waterway transport? Are the investments, which are at stake in these provinces, possible from the development reserve for projects of national interest? Is it not also a pity that we have created EUR 3 billion of Maasvlakte 2, where the construction has already done a great deal of nature compensation and where all the compensation for nitrogen has already been achieved, but where investments are likely to be closed if there are no other sources of nitrogen to compensate for it? If there is anything to be drawn from the development reserve for national projects, it is here. Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u179	Any short questions, Mrs Bromet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u180	In fact, I would like to join in this argument. Not because I want to distribute nitrogen space now, but I have also heard the reports from the port companies in not only North and South Holland, but also in Groningen, where they are working on the energy transition. It is threatened by the lack of nitrogen space. It is good that Mr Harbers brings that up. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u181	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u182	Maybe we'll get somewhere around here. I'll call Groningen later, so you can nod in agreement. Another problem where a lot of large investments are suffering is that this is still a part of the development reserve, certainly investment in industry, including even making industry more sustainable, is that it is very often necessary to compensate for a very small amount in many Natura 2000 sites, which is virtually impossible: the diffuse taxers. This week in the Chamber the example of the investment in the port of Urk came along: an additional deposition of 0.002 moles, but in the total of 24 areas. Then you have no idea where you're gonna start salting and compensatory measures. This is a small development. Then you have to think about how big billions of investments are going to be invested, for example in making industry more sustainable. From Zeeland to Groningen Seaports there are, allegedly, 130 major investment projects. Even if they have the money to do nitrogen compensation, the bureaucracy around here is almost impossible: all those areas along and everywhere watching what you compensate. Can this type of project be given priority from the development reserve for projects of national interest, especially in order to maintain investment and employment? Or can another practical solution be found for this? And how has the scope of that national development space been determined? Are all these developments and, for example, the use of new national infrastructure already included? Mr. Chairman. In these comments I dealt with the importance of industry, infrastructure, business, but you can effortlessly go through the questions of housing. Fortunately, with the introduction of a threshold for construction, a large part of the housing sector will be possible again without any problems. But there are still bottlenecks they were already mentioned in the coastal strip around The Hague, in Arnhem, Nijmegen and the Zaanstreek. Again with the big question mark: what realistic possibilities are there or can we create? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the source measures in the years to come. The contribution of sectors is heavily devoted to agriculture. The VVD has been committed from the start that it must be a fair choice for the farmer. If there is a buy-back scheme that provides financial security, but the choice for farmers with investments in lower-emission methods or techniques comes on their own account, then the choice on paper may be voluntary, but that is not how it feels. That is why we support a large-scale effort here to subsidise innovative, low-emission techniques, for three reasons. One: it's more cost-effective than just buying up businesses. Two: not the animals but the nitrogen emission is the problem. Three: by subsidising, we accelerate the reduction of nitrogen emissions. Farmers must be able to make an investment in low-emission techniques. If we do not facilitate this from the government, the same development may take place in ten, twenty, thirty years, but that will be much later and much more spread over time. It is therefore right that the government should contribute to accelerating this development, because we can now make good use of this nitrogen saving. I do have a number of questions about this. I'll start with the buy-back arrangements. The first scheme has been opened up and this allows provinces to purchase targeted peak loaders who voluntarily opt for it. There will later be a generic reorganisation scheme for farmers to sign up for. There's something to be said about this. The fact that someone who sells his company can't start a new livestock farm is still understandable. But he cannot take over an existing company, for example, a company that is much further away from a Natura 2000 site. It can't even work under lower emission conditions. That is strange, because one of the objectives of the cabinet is precisely to enable company relocations. In the debates last autumn and in June of this year, I have already drawn attention to this from the VVD. From the sector this was perceived as a professional ban. In short, can the Minister reconsider this, particularly in order not to frustrate these movements? In the first buy-back scheme, the purchase of the associated land is rightly optional. That only happens if the farmer wants to get rid of it. In this way, it will also be possible to use the land for other activities or for intensification for those who want to do more grazing. My question is whether this will also apply to the generic regime. If a farmer wants to sell the land, it is of course purchased. But if the farmer wants to keep that land for other purposes, then that should be possible. An additional advantage is that the target range of the purchasing scheme can be increased, as the funds can then be used more efficiently. I'd like a response. On this point, too, I am considering a motion. How does the Minister with the provinces deal with the issues of land? What are you doing with free land? How do you ensure that there is sufficient land for agriculture, for example for farms that want to do more grazing? How do you secure the development space for the countryside? What could possibly be done with red-for-red schemes to create more space for housing against the villages in rural areas? Another question. Earlier this year, in February, the cabinet announced that targeted, voluntary buy-back farmers would be able to sell production rights separately to farmers who are going to produce low-emissions once we are below the phosphate ceiling. I do not think we are there yet, but that provision is still lacking in the regulation. How is the Minister going to implement this when the time comes? Mr. Chairman. Stopper schemes can be a solution for farmers who are already considering stopping anyway. They can now help solve the nitrogen problem, provided that the government pays a decent price. However, we would like to draw attention to the need for stopper schemes to be used where the nitrogen gain is greatest. The question we have here is how targeted the peak loaders are to be approached. Two weeks ago, the problem of peak chargers came into full focus. What struck me was that apparently there have been few hand-outs from the often provincial governments to go round the table with those companies. This can also be a solution to relocation, but then a hand out of the government is needed, a good offer that can actually tempt to move. That is still lacking, in addition to a buy-out scheme. How does the Minister view this? How can she take this up with provinces? Finally, Mr President. In the case of purchasing arrangements, it is important that farmers should also have the opportunity to be properly advised on the financial and fiscal aspects of this issue, as well as on the question of businessmen coming by, and on the fact that there is always an alternative to low-emission work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u183	Very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand. The interruptions or comments must be brief. That's just in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u184	I understand, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the VVD what responsibility it feels for the taxpayer. We have seen what it means to have permits in a rule of law. I hope, by the way, that the VVD is still in favour of the rule of law, but we sometimes have great concerns about that. Sprinkling with permits means that if the underlying policy goes down, those farmers have just received a permit. So that means you're charging taxpayers with very high costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u185	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u186	I would like to ask the VVD Group. For earlier Mr Dijkhoff said that, for example, moving is actually a bit of a waste of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u187	In my text, I make that a condition for you to work on low-emissions. Look, here again is the question of how to seduce as a government. How do you excite something's gonna happen? 'Cause you don't have to. No farmer has to move. A farmer can also sit where he sits. We have a nitrogen problem to solve. If that requires something from entrepreneurs, then as a government you must also be willing to pay for it. This helps you solve a social problem and also brings the economy back on track. That's the investment we're making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u188	Exactly. As a government, you have to pay for it. So I'm just asking about the reflection on that. So if the government issued permits that were already clear at the time that they would not last, then there is someone who has to pay for that. So that's the taxpayer. I wonder how much the VVD has left for that and how much it has become through this policy that the VVD has always supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u189	Moreover, the policy has not been undermined by the courts, but implementation. The PAS included compensatory measures, but implementation was insufficient. That has already been exchanged in this debate. We are indeed paying the price for that and I would have liked that to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u191	In the case of other agricultural sources, it is particularly important that good dialogue with the agricultural sector should be resumed. The craftsmanship and customization, appropriate to the situation, must be given a place. That is also what the package of measures is aimed at. That is also an aspect of an agricultural agreement. One of the points on which I have a further question concerns the measures to be taken in the stable sector. I would like to draw attention to the group of extensive livestock farmers, who do not spend much of the year on pastures, but on pastures. It's weird if this group is going to have to make an expensive stable adjustment too, while they already have little emission through their management and grazing. How does the Minister view this? On this point, too, I am considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. The implementation of the source measures lies to a large extent with the provinces. The pace varies from one province to another. The task is also different in the different provinces. Some provinces are busy. We know the Gelders approach. We know about the plans in Brabant. Other provinces aren't ready yet. I went into the coastal provinces a moment ago, which have their own problems, so that they are also a bit hanied with the question what can actually be done there. As far as the VVD is concerned, the provinces should also be able to provide tailor-made points from the various source measures. This is, on the one hand, to maximise the impact of resource measures in their area-based approach, but also to achieve the objectives in their areas as cost-effectively as possible, including nature objectives. For example, there are situations in which you do more for nature recovery by making peak loads sustainable, moving them or buying them out, than by taking sec nature measures. That should actually be possible. How does the Minister see that? The point is that all governments together make rapid progress. As this happens more, more customized support from the Empire can also be opposed. That is why we have discussed this with all parties, the coalition parties and three opposition parties. I hope that we will achieve something on that point in this debate too. Then there's the permit. The instruments for this are internal salading, external salading and the ABC test, besides of course the fact that nature restoration itself also means that the AERIUS calculation is going to offer more and more space. However, internal and external netting also have their limitations. It's about nitrogen gain. Then you actually need ideas like those of the farmers from Nieuwkoop this summer. In doing so, they are sustainable and the nitrogen gain can also be partly used for economic development. That is the principle of netting, but with more companies and with work. I find it rather odd that the only way to make economic development possible is to buy up a company altogether. However, if you sustain the company, then everyone can go through and prevent, for example, a steel factory from coming into the happy possession of a farm, which is not entirely the core business of such a factory. I'm glad the Minister positively embraced that Nieuwkoop initiative. The question is, how is that going to go on? Can she go into that? Can she discuss with the provinces how such ideas can get a place in external salading? It was also agreed in April to start an additional nitrogen deposition registration system with the provinces, in which all nitrogen surpluses are recorded and can be spent for other developments. Mr Geurts talked about carbon leakage in external salads. When is this system coming up and how is it going to be? These are going to be regional systems by its very nature. I think it could also be a solution for, for example, salading within the area of, say, the port of Rotterdam, to actively reduce nitrogen and partially reuse it. How does the Minister see that? The Port of Rotterdam calls that "the dome concept" and talks about facet destination plans for nitrogen. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this, for example with the province of South Holland? It can of course also be applied elsewhere in the country. It's actually a bit about the search for things that are in between internal and external salading as more space comes in. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions about the results of the Hordijk Committee, the committee which examined the measurement and calculation systems. The next step is for the Minister to adopt the recommendations and to that end launch the Knowledge Programme Nitrogen. Two things are urgent as far as we are concerned: the rapid improvement of the measurement system, by the way, thanks for the fact that this has been started; the question is, of course, how it stands with this and the work on what is called 'the ensemble modeling', or the combination of multiple models to get more precision and to get a more validated system. Ultimately, our long-term desire is for a regional threshold to be created and for an adjustment of the cut-off limit, which is now unmeasurably low, to be given a place in that knowledge programme. In this respect, it remains a bit inimitable that in the targeted buy-back scheme there is a cut-off limit of 10 kilometers, but in AERIUS the assumption remains that you can trace exactly which livestock farmer the little bit of extra deposition comes from at a very large distance, sometimes 100 kilometers or more. In short, how does the Minister view this? But above all: how does it see the further development in the field of measurement and calculation models? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u192	Thank you, Mr. Harbers. I want to suspend for five minutes now. Then we move on and it's Mrs. Ouwehand's turn. I'm suspending for five minutes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u193	I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u194	Thank you, Mr President. We live in the sixth extinction wave. There have been extinction waves before, and that was no fun for life on Earth. Now we live in the middle of the sixth, the first man-made. There are times in politics when we share that we need to take good care of our own environment, otherwise we will be very sorry and burden our children and grandchildren with problems that we wouldn't want to do to ourselves. There are times when politics agrees. For example, you agree that climate change must not get so out of hand that it becomes unviable on Earth. Then you have a climate agreement. Then there are treaties, also in the UN context, which the Netherlands participates in, fortunately. And then we agree: the loss of biodiversity must stop. We are completely dependent on nature. Nature has intrinsic value. There are times when we agree. That is what we do in Europe. The Animal Party is very much in favour of parliaments and governments wanting to protect nature by themselves. Anyway, if you choose the route "we'll only do that if everyone's in it," you'll do it European. Then there's a moment when we pause for a moment on what binds us. That means: we all really want to protect nature. But then, Mr. Chairman. Then we agreed and then you feel the practical objections. Unfortunately, then, the biggest part of politics behaves like a crying child who doesn't want to go to bed: no, I'm just gonna sit here and color, I want this, I still have to pee. We agreed, and you're gonna get in trouble if you don't do it. You already knew that, or you wouldn't have made that appointment at all. But it is going to be very problematic, very problematic, if the government does not comply with its own laws. This has been going on for over 20 years with the protection of nature in the Netherlands, 25 years perhaps. Before the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen was invented, it was the same sheet a suit. Politics, under the leadership of the CDA, had devised a little plan: how can we deal with this law that we do not want to comply with? That was the ammonia testing framework. The intention was always not to protect nature, but to ensure that permits were issued. The nasty thing is: if you don't do that in accordance with the law we agreed on nature conservation, then it seems as if you can issue permits, but then beach them with the judge. At that time, I dare to predict that that situation is not going to change. Parties such as the CDA and the VVD had, in a manner of speaking, a subscription to devastating statements by the Council of State. 'Cause the government can do whatever it takes. The government can look away, can decide not to enforce the law by not checking what a cattle factory or other factory has to do with nature. But people can go to court and fortunately they have done so, with Johan Vollenbroek as an honorary citizen of the Netherlands as regards the Party for Animals. So if people go to court and say "whoa, but here's the law and my own government doesn't enforce," then they can file an enforcement request. If there are permits issued that are not in accordance with the law of the government, then the judge can say, because someone takes the trouble to go to court, eh, which, of course, is the world upside down... But then the judge can say: yes, that could not be done; this permit was issued, but it is not in accordance with the law and so it is deleted. From that situation, because the permits were constantly killed because the government didn't comply with the law, a new ruse was devised: the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, from the same sheet a suit. You will be warned: the permits you will issue on the basis of this system will be unsustainable. You can imagine that as companies all cause a tiny bit of natural destruction with their activities... It's just a little bit. But if you do not make that appropriate assessment, you can already see in advance that the legal certainty of these companies is in danger. And that is a problem, because either those people from those companies that the CDA is talking about can't sleep because they don't know if they have a permit or you've made an advance on a lot of billions that taxpayers have to cough up, because we do live in a rule of law. So no matter how you turn it or turn it, whether it's you to do nature, that should actually bind us and that is at least the Animal Party leading for the legal certainty of entrepreneurs or the taxpayer, I see only agreement. We should all want to protect that, but that does make it an obligation to actually do your job and not to run away from the rules we have agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u195	I actually agree with Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals. It is, of course, rules that have been devised by the parties themselves. Setting up the Natura 2000 and naming the habitats that you consider so important is, of course, the basis of the problem. If you don't, the judge's gonna say, "You don't follow your own rules." Those rules were devised by these parties themselves. That's absolutely true. However, I find it strange that Germany, Belgium and Denmark also have these Natura 2000 sites and that they are also not in line with nitrogen. So how can it be that the Netherlands is completely locked up, that the peasantry has to halve and that we have to take draconian measures, whereas the countries around us do not have to do so at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u196	This has to do with the very undesirable situation that governments simply do not respect the law. The Netherlands is certainly not the only one in that. What's to be done? Then citizens have to go to court to whistle back a government like that. That has happened in the Netherlands and I am very grateful to those people for that. But that has not yet happened in Germany, Belgium, France and Denmark. How is that possible? I assume that there will be procedures there as well. But the Animal Party did say to the Minister: there is a good chance that they will not work according to the agreed rules, so call for an approach and an infringement procedure with the European Commission. But the PVV was against that proposal. I think that's a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u197	For us, sovereignty is very important. How Germany, Belgium and Denmark deal with their views on nature and the rules is up to that population. We should not interfere in that. So no, we do not want infringement proceedings. But I do find it striking that in the Netherlands people constantly go to court and get their right there, and that the government is forced to have its own bad rules... 'Cause I agree. We want to change those rules, but that is a different view. But it is strange that this is always happening in the Netherlands. How is that possible? I'm just wondering, but I don't think you know yourself either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u198	I don't think that's weird at all. Fortunately, there are people in the Netherlands who are willing to spend their whole lives trying to protect nature. If they see that their own government is failing to comply with the rules and that coalmaids in the outskirts of the Netherlands, in our natural areas, cannot even lay full eggs because of the ammonia deposition in those areas, then I am very happy that citizens say: "I just don't like this. I'm going to the judge. The government must protect nature." But that's the world upside down, because that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u199	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u200	Mr. Chairman. Today we should have talked about the long-awaited way out of the nitrogen crisis, as the Minister has promised for a long time. But the proposal now before us, including the late-night deal with 50PLUS, the SGP and the SP and the proposals that they have put forward on this law, does not do so. The proposal now before us is yet another excuse from the nitrogen crisis, without fulfilling any of the earlier promises and the legal need imposed. Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to refer to all the Acts on this dossier that the Chamber has already passed. This is a very complicated file, which is hard to follow for the people at home. So I am very happy when journalists try to write down how these problems have been caused. That's what Trouw did last year, and I'd like to read a bit of that. "How the nitrogen monstrosity grew and came into the world. More than ten years ago it appeared that the cabinet had a problem with nitrogen policy. CDA, PvdA and VVD came up with an approach together. That plan fell. Now we've got the chunks. A reconstruction." It was written by Jeannine Julen van Trouw. "He didn't come up with it. Wasn't involved in the main phase. "The role that has been assigned to me is too much of the good." It is October 3rd 2019 and the second time former Secretary of State Henk Bleker e-mails that an interview about the killed Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is really not in it. Normally he is not reluctant (...). 'But this is what I need to get into. I don't have time for that." Two days earlier, that same Bleker went to the Malieveld in The Hague among hundreds of protesting farmers with banners, middle fingers, turned backs, roaring tractors, and here and there a roaring out" I do not read these two words here, President "act against the Haagse agricultural policy and politicians who hijack their livestock. The most recent pain for the protesting farmers: the nitrogen policy that has been shot down, which causes their licence applications to stick. CDA'er Bleker sees and hears it all before he climbs on stage. "Don't be provoked today!', calls Bleker "his" farmers. "Don't let a handful of loser vegans or animal activists hunt you down. Look down on them." He understands the frustration of the peasants. Also says that the gap between farmers and a part of that 'Hague world' has become far too big. 'That's what's bothering us. That's gotta stop sometime!" Back to the year 2011. Bleker is then Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation, and the Netherlands is in a real permit pass when it comes to projects where nitrogen is released. Three years earlier, in 2008, the Council of State launched the 'Ammunition Framework and Natura 2000', but there are still hundreds of difficult-to-do permit applications in provincial houses on piles. Expand a stable, build a road, or build a residential area near a protected nature reserve? Prove first that your nitrogen emissions do not affect that part of already tortured nature any further, judge both the judge and the provinces. If you can't do that, you can whistle to the license. During this period, The Hague's politics has an emergency grip: the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen (PAS). According to creators the egg of Columbus: it is going to ensure that farmers can simply continue to farm, builders can continue to build and" miraculous! "that nitrogen-pained flora and fauna also improves. A typical win-win situation in The Hague." You're making it up, but it's not true, of course. The PAS is not a brew of Bleker himself, but certainly a plan to his peasant heart. Bleker himself lives on a farm in the Oost-Groningse Vlagtwedde (Old-Groningse Vlagtwedde), with his many work visits to the farmland and cuts on protected nature, makes no secret that he puts farm activity above nature protection. If this plan continues, his peasants will be able to get back to work undisturbed. Then, somewhere in 2011, an advisory report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection explodes at the office of the Secretary of State. A report examining the solution to the problem of nitrogen in The Hague. The committee does not leave much of the concept that Bleker has put together with his officials. One of its main criticisms is that the programme in its present form seems to be at odds with the (...) Habitats Directive. It requires that economic activity near the nitrogen-sensitive nature is only possible if those areas are robust enough. And let the state of the 118 nitrogen-sensitive nature reserves in the Netherlands be very bad. Expanding a farm near such a nature reserve can only be done if the farmer can scientifically justify how the nitrogen emissions released can be compensated. 'Do your legal homework', the committee warns the Secretary of State, 'otherwise you go down'. 'You can see it all very black', Bleker's officials still try with the committee members, according to the discussions [Trouw] had before this reconstruction with various stakeholders. "We've vetted this program with Europe's best naturalists." That pressure doesn't make any sense. A year later, another report will follow, this time on the final concept. The message is devastating: the PAS is legally untenable. In other words, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection says that licences granted under this measure do not stand in court. Advisory reports, from the Council of State and from the Committee on Accelerating and Improving Decision-making Infrastructure, come to the same conclusion. But Bleker's sticking to it. He sees the space for economic activity, he writes in a letter to the House of Representatives. This cannot continue, a member of one of the critical advisory committees urges members of parliament. This is going the wrong way, he warns. Most of them, he hardly finds hearing. He also speaks Minister Melanie Schultz van Haegen, then Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. He addresses her to the hard hearing of her colleague Bleker. "Interesting what you say," Schultz replies. "You certainly have a point." That's as far as she goes. During a cup of coffee in the Lower House he also tries Diederik Samsom van de PvdA, one of the two spiritual fathers of the new nitrogen policy. But there is no change of heart either. Samsom continues to insist: that policy really holds." Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister how likely she is that she will be the leading player in a similar reconstruction. Because history repeats itself. We're being warned. We know the facts. We know what is needed to ensure the protection of nature, which is a prerequisite for the granting of permits that do not go under. We know that the 50% reduction in ten years, with which the Remkes Committee came, is the minimum you have to do. We also know that such an approach is necessary to allow economic activity again that does not die in court. For the Animal Party, too, understands very well that we are also very much in favour of the idea that you need some space for activities that are very important, such as housing and solving the problem there, perhaps at the expense of nature. But you can only spend that space if you have a legally protected program that makes sure that that nature is protected. That's the condition. Anyone who claims to want to build homes when they don't meet that condition simply lies to the people. 'Cause the projects are gonna die. Other activities, such as those of farmers, pose the same problems as at the time: legal uncertainty. That's what's keeping farmers awake. Mr. Chairman. So it's a repeat of moves. If we're not willing to follow the experts who might be up to 100-0 in this whole file... All the solutions ever devised with the CDA, the VVD and the Labour Party have always gone down, because the experts have not been listened to. And the challenge has become much greater. So the Minister thought he might be impressed with 3 billion extra for nature over the next ten years, but of course you have to put that against: what was the nature budget for the period-Bleker? Well, that was more money then. And after that period, nature has only deteriorated further. So you need to do more. It is very bad for nature, and it really hurts the Party for Animals, and it really hurts the Minister not to take an extra step, but it is also the condition for a legally sustainable package. So I have the following questions for the Minister and for all parties who want to support this again. What do farmers buy to ensure that they do not know again whether the permits they receive are sustainable? What is nature buying for 3 billion to be squandered against, which is actually a very important part of what is known as nature restoration measures? That is, by the way, brutal violence in nature, because you are going to peel off the whole top layer, which has been completely acidified by the ammonia fumes from agriculture and from those other sectors. You do that without actually saying in the source: okay, maybe it's necessary and it's a very radical measure, but then we'll really make sure there's no further pollution. What does nature buy for this? What do the farmers buy for this? They're left with uncertainty. And a very important question: what is the taxpayer buying for this? Because it's a very expensive joke to make these kinds of choices if you end up, in two or three years' time, we don't know when, but we come back here again with the situation that there are activities allowed and licensed that do not relate to the law to which the cabinet should have complied. Then you get to the point where you live in a rule of law and can't just take away those permits. Someone's gonna have to pay for that. And that's always the taxpayer. What's he buying for it? Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party points out to the Minister the history of this dossier. She reminds the Minister of all the knowledge we have about this. 50% reduction of nitrogen by 2030 is the minimum; 70% would be much better. And the law, with all the amendments that have been tabled, is not even close to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u201	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is this law supposed to do? What would he do? This law must ensure that housing is withdrawn. A lot of young people are looking for a place to live. The housing is in far too many places. There's not enough license space. Secondly, this law should allow for economic development. There are opportunities for companies to expand and new companies to settle in the Netherlands. We can see that unemployment is rising. We're gonna need those jobs. Thirdly, we need better nature. We owe that to future generations. They also have a right to good, beautiful nature. Fourthly, we need stability for the agricultural sector. I just feel sorry for the farmers. Even if you burp well this year, you still have that strangling uncertainty: maybe the regulations will change again next year, or your PAS-report will not be valid. There must be more stability for farmers, and there must also be a more stable and better income model for farmers. Mr. Chairman. Is this law going to make all that legally possible? You can question that really big, and then I'll be very careful. Because we see that there are all kinds of nitrogen claims, existing and new. First of all, housing. Secondly, the economy. Thirdly, we need room for the detectors. We also need room for major infrastructure projects, for example the seven projects of the Minister of IenW. We need nitrogen space for the water supply, because the dikes need to be strengthened. The Department of Defense is also making a claim to nitrogen space. And there are airports that don't have a license. There will also have to be room for that. Finally, or rather first, we also need nitrogen space for nature improvement. The question is whether this law is going to offer all this to a sufficient extent. To my taste, that is not the case. I believe that the opinion of the Remkes Committee is correct: not everything can be done. The committee clearly describes in a good, solid and balanced opinion what is needed to create that nitrogen space and what mix of measures is needed. My question to the Minister is: isn't this bill actually the re-paving of the dead end that we have taken with the PAS? Do we not once again run the risk that this is not legally feasible? Mr. Chairman. There are a number of elements which I would like to go into more detail. First of all...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u203	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u204	I was just listening to Mr Moorlag. I understand this morning that he is going to support a bald framework law without measures, without even looking at measures. Nice, such a bald framework law, but it doesn't pay off as long as the provinces aren't going to do anything, just to put it very plastically. And I hear him say here that he does not support a minister's law either because there are so many measures in it. Tell me something. Then how do you intend to help the construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u205	That framework law of GroenLinks does appeal to me, because the ambition is just a lot higher. It is at the level of the Remkes Committee. It is a framework law, but this also applies, for example, to the Climate Act. That is also a framework law. I do not have the illusion that this framework law is enough. It will, of course, have to be worked out in a package of measures. But that will have to be a package of measures that goes beyond what this law is going to achieve and intends to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u206	I think Mr Moorlag is going to get pretty stuck here. It's a law of measures that just see to it that it can be built again, or a bald framework law that the provinces and I know a lot of who still have to think about, which may take years, because it requires a lot of capacity from those provinces. And then Mr Moorlag is going to say here that there can be construction in the short term. Explain to me how your vision can be built in the short term!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u207	Well, for example, by taking more source measures and by taking them faster, so that more moles of nitrogen space become available. There will be 20 moles of development space available. It is said from the business community that it should be at least 60 moles to realize all those nitrogen claims that lie there. The PvdA is in favour of faster and more source measures being taken, faster reduction of nitrogen deposition and nitrogen emissions, so that there is also room for housing, so that there is room for economic development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u208	I don't get it yet, but it's probably just me. In Mr Moorlag's view, a bald framework law which does not yet provide an opportunity for action. Because yes, 50%; so yes, that will work. The Remkes committee said it. It's in the bald framework law, and then it's gonna work. Or about a law of the minister with just source measures in it, fully elaborated................................................................................................................................................................................................ Explain it to me, because I really don't understand! That'll be up to me, but explain it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u209	It's very simple to explain. What Mr Geurts apparently thinks is good enough or good enough in this law is not good enough by the standards of the Remkes Committee. That's how simple the facts are. If Mr Geurts had listened carefully to Mr Remkes, he would have known that too. And he has listened carefully to it, but I suspect Mr Geurts is putting his head in the sand and thinks that with this package of mat rules we can honour all those nitrogen claims. And with that, he's really turning people's minds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u210	I worked in a coalition with the PvdA for five years as a MP. So I appreciate the great power of thought that exists in the PvdA. Mr Moorlag's wish list on nitrogen is clear. Everyone does. That 60 moles that business is asking for is also clear. But achieving the goal is simply to take measures and to know how much mole per hectare per year that yields. The cabinet's package of measures has fully mapped this out. Mr Moorlag is calling for a double task in 2030. So my question is: does he, with all the power of thought in the PvdA, also have an idea of what source measures that will be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u211	Well, the PvdA doesn't need that much thinking power at all. Honestly, that power of thought is just externally developed. At the time, I supported Mr Geurts' motion to set up an external committee to deliver an opinion on this matter. I had doubts about it, but that Remkes committee simply did a good job. That committee is really coming from an unsuspecting angle for you, too, I think. Elisabeth Post was in there. She's a VVD guy. Jan Jacob van Dijk was in it, a CDA man. Mr. Elbert Dijkgraaf was in it, a SGP man. And they came up with the advice to do what I advocate. And I do not understand, quite frankly, that the coalition parties here seem to be taking such advice entirely in the wind or forgetting that the opinion was even issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u212	This package includes, for example, the entire nitrogen yield of the 2030 Climate Agreement measures. Yeah, you might want to speed that up, but that just doesn't work. It's already at maximum speed in society. There are 17 measures to be taken. Let's just take a few. Which would Mr Moorlag want to take more seriously? Does traffic have to go 80 km/h everywhere? Are you asking for more from farmers? Do you want bigger buyout arrangements? Should there be more farmers stopping? Should more farmers go on grazing faster? Do more farmers need to dilute the manure more quickly? It's not a free-thinking exercise. These are concrete measures that you need to take. If you plead for a double task, it would adorn the PvdA if it were simply very clear which measures would have to be implemented twice or worse. If you stand up for a stable agricultural sector, then be clear to the farmers in what you are asking them to do in the next ten years to achieve the double task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u213	Firstly, farmers are not the only cause of the problem. But it is true that the agricultural sector causes a large part of the problem. I think we should all take responsibility for this. We have allowed this situation to emerge and let it continue. We have thought that it would all be possible to squeeze this into the too small environmental area in the event of interruption. This does not appear to be the case. So, part of the agricultural sector will have to get smaller. I think we should do this in a social way. I've been a union manager for years. A good reorganisation starts with a good social plan. That has sometimes been my fault for Mr De Groot. I think it should be done in a social way. In the short term, we need to take rapid source measures. In the long term, as I have argued before and consistently here, we need a broad agreement on agriculture, nature and food to put an end to this polarisation. It should be a mix of short-term measures to combat sharply and develop a long-term perspective. I believe that the Remkes Committee's opinion provides an excellent basis for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u214	Finally. Entrepreneurs in the country are really entitled to a clearer answer. A number of farmers will have to get smaller. Is that two times? This package already includes the conversion to circular agriculture for some farmers. Should that be twice as many farmers? You say it's not just agriculture. So what are you asking for from other sectors? From mobility, construction, traffic, aviation? I know all the hobbies the PvdA wants to tackle, but be clear, especially at this stage in the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u215	That clarity does not have to be given exclusively by the PvdA. I don't want to determine that exclusively. That is why we set up the Remkes Committee. That committee has made more than 150 recommendations, both in the short term and in the long term. I find it really impossible for such a good and balanced opinion to be simply followed. Those Remkes commission can be compared a bit with the Elfstedentocht's rayon heads, which say: boys, there must be 15 centimeters of ice if it is to be justified to let 16,000 skaters go over the elfstedenparcour. 50% reduction in emissions, says Remkes, and the Minister's bill amounts to 26%. Thanks to the SP...... I have appreciated the effort of the SP...................................................................................................................................................... But we can't let all those nitrogen projects that are in the pipeline go over that thin ice. That legal ice is just too thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u216	I have already asked Mr Moorlag of the PvdA a number of times about the role of the two Secretary of State for Agriculture, who have gone hard with the PAS, but let us look ahead for a moment. Indeed, Remkes has the good ambition and there D66 fully agrees with the PvdA. Then there will be a law and amendments to take further steps towards Remkes, by pursuing a higher ambition than that of Remkes, only a few years later, and to go to an intermediate goal. Maybe this afternoon we're gonna strengthen our relationship with the county. Unlike Remkes, the government's proposal contains a programme which has been fully calculated and which includes those real results. Let's take a look ahead. Is it conceivable for the PvdA that you will support the law, that we will adopt it later, and that we will look into the future to see if we can increase ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u217	I'm tasting a bit of an invitation to negotiate and compromise. I indicated earlier today that the art of compromise is part of politics, but we cannot negotiate it here in the event of interruption. The willingness to enter into conversation is always present. I also see the need for a law to be passed, but that law must be strong enough. In the past, Mr de Groot, although he has also supported the PAS, has sometimes taken the PvdA's measure for the PAS. In essence, the PAS was able to pass the test of the European Court of Justice. We saw in the PAS that there was too much mortgage on the future, that too much development space, nitrogen space, was being spent and that the nature restoration did not go fast enough. My fear, my sincere concern, is that with this law we swim in the same trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u218	Good to hear the PvdA sees this government law as a basis for further discussion. I have a yes/no question. Is that why you're going to support the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u219	No. By the law in this form, as it is here now, there will have to be some extras in itself. Mr De Groot asked whether there was any willingness to talk about this? Sure, there is that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u220	There will be proposals this afternoon to include an intermediate target, to strengthen the goal and to strengthen relations with the provinces. These are elements that I would like to give the PvdA some consideration in order to support the law. Only then can you talk about next steps later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u221	I will mention specific points that are necessary to arrive at an acceptable law or to arrive at an acceptable package. First of all, the nitrogen space for housing must be secured. At the moment, we see that this is not being done to a sufficient extent. We've had the distress call of the municipality of Zaanstad. I read the Minister's letter. He doesn't reassure me that Zaanstad can build the houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u222	Are you now working on your contribution or was this still in response to Mr De Groot?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u223	I am still answering Mr De Groot's question as to which elements should be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u224	I asked about time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u225	It would be a good thing for me if the VNG, the housing corporations and the building companies of the Netherlands were to conclude agreements that would ensure that housing was actually started. Secondly, there should be room for economic development. In my contribution, I will go into this further in a moment. Nature quality will have to be improved, but a number of things will also need to be improved in governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u226	I see a yes coming from the PvdA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u227	Well, I'm not going to go into it too much, but that's a bit of a wishful thinking, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u228	That's what I like to hear. I understand the terms of the Labour Party. There's got to be room for housing. You have to make sure of that, too. But does the Labour Party also recognise, perhaps, that I am asking in abundance that this is conditional on a 50% reduction in nitrogen emissions by 2030, because otherwise you do not have a sufficient basis for protecting that nature and that you cannot play with nitrogen space? That's actually what Remkes says. That's the minimum you have to do to realize those things the Labour Party sketches here and shares with the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u229	That's the starting point for me. The Remkes Committee has really delivered a coherent opinion. If it turns out that you and nature quality can improve and the housing and all the other projects that need nitrogen space can be carried out if it looks different or if the timeline is different, then I am open to that. But the starting point and the measure are, as far as I am concerned, those of the Remkes Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u230	Does the PvdA therefore recognise that it is minimal and that the legal experts, who have been advising the House of Representatives on this dossier for 15 years and who have been right every time, say that it is better that we really see that 50% as a minimum? You can really make sure if you go to 70%. Does the PvdA recognize that the experts are giving us that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u231	If the experts have indicated this, I would like to acknowledge that the experts have given it to us. I'm not just saying that I'm completely embracing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u232	The Labour Party is concerned about housing in the Netherlands. That is what my group is doing. The Labour Party is concerned about economic developments. That is what my group is doing. We are thinking in particular of the PAS detectors, the non-detectors and the people who do not have a licence now, who want to make an investment in their company, but cannot get a loan from the bank. But what happens if the Labour Party convinces this Chamber and we do not pass a law today? Did we help those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u233	No, we didn't help those people, but I think we better help people with a better law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u234	Mrs. O... oh, no, Mrs. Dik-Faber. I'm just saying standard Mrs Ouwehand, because she's always in that place!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u235	I think it's a little easy what's being said here. If the present law is passed, then I think the construction can go forward again, including the project in Zaanstad, that we can help the people who are PAS-detector or non-detector to obtain the permit for their business and that we are going to invest in nature. Perhaps the latter is very important in the eyes of the Labour Party and also of my faction. Each transaction is skimmed for the benefit of nature. There is an enormous amount of money spent on nature recovery; billions go there. So I have the following question to the Labour Party: why not this law? Isn't it really easy to say now: "I'm staying on the side. I'm out of the game, because the goal we wanted will not be achieved by 2030, but by 2035"? Is that the big difference for the Labour Party to say: "All those entrepreneurs, all those builders, I'm just gonna leave them where they are. I am not signing this law, because I do want the goal to be achieved five years earlier"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u236	That's a bit of a simplification of the image I'm putting here. I spoke to the Minister at some point and said: I am not married to the percentage. What I do want is for there to be a package that offers enough comfort, so that we can honour all the nitrogen claims and the expectations we raise with them. This means that you need to do more with regard to the source measures. That also means that you have to make really close agreements, to make sure that the housing is started. That means that you have to do this together with the business community, the ports and with all those initiators who have their fingers in the door, who really want to start a business or expand a business, so that we can not only promise that development space, but also deliver on it. I also believe that there should be a long-term perspective. In fact, I heard something about that in today's debate. I have heard a little warmer words about the broad agricultural, nature and food agreement that I so much wanted than in previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u237	I really don't get it anymore. The Labour Party says: I would very much like to have a credible package of measures. That's what this bill offers. The Labour Party cooks with Remkes' proposal, with zero justification, and with GroenLinks' framework law, but with no package of measures to achieve the goal. Here is a package of measures from this cabinet, and then Mr Moorlag says: "I am not in it for a moment. I leave the entrepreneurs and the builders in the cold, because there is no package of measures." I mean, look at what it says! I just heard Mr Moorlag say: I am not married to a percentage. I would like to say to Mr Moorlag: 'Read the bill properly. You will be served at your beck and call. Join us."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u238	I am not being served, because what Mrs Dik-Faber apparently likes is simply not good enough. These are also the signals we are getting from society. If it were just right, I'd admit it as well. But it's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u239	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u240	Expectations are being raised in society, which cannot be met. That's where my biggest concern lies. I think we should also be a reliable government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u241	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The development area for economic activities, including to create new jobs, is estimated at 60 moles. The bill saw about 20 moles of development space. Something will have been added by the compromise that has been reached, but is this really going to pull all these projects loose? The Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency, the organisation that makes for us acquisition by foreign companies to settle mainly in the Netherlands, and Invest in Holland say that some 130 major projects have gone out of the picture. That just cuts me off, but this is in the answer given by the Minister for Questions. I also see it at Groningen Seaports. There are plans with a total investment of EUR 3 billion. They're just dead in front of the closet right now! And this bill is not going to provide sufficient comfort for that. But we also see it at the Port of Rotterdam and at the large industrial clusters. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared, together with industry, with the large ports and with municipalities that have large industrial clusters, to see what is needed for nitrogen space for all these projects and how that nitrogen space can be provided. This will have to be done by increasing, in particular, the source measures. Mr. Chairman. I asked earlier whether there was any willingness to reach final agreements with the housing companies, with the builders, with the project developers and with the municipalities in order to re-launch the housing. The Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten has also indicated that there is a great concern whether these housing projects will be detached. Mr. Chairman. There are also all kinds of problems under the waterline. These are the PAS detectors in the first place. Others have spoken about this. I'm also saying that we should actually legalize that, but can we legally do that? In the report, I read in the answers to Mr Futselaar's questions that the principle of legal certainty in this case of those PAS detectors does not go beyond the European Treaty's prohibition of deterioration. My question to the Minister is based on a German judge's ruling: how is she going to solve that dilemma? How are you gonna legalize and at the same time comply with the prohibition on deterioration? Mr. Chairman. How will enforcement solve the problem? In the province of Zuid-Holland that plays very manifest. I have already mentioned this myself in a general discussion. The judge has ruled that the province of South Holland must be maintained. The province has, pending the law and the legal process and due to the lack of tools to legalize it, not legalized those PAS notifications yet. But the judge has already ruled that there is a need to maintain it. How is the Minister going to solve that problem? Is there even a final solution to that? Mr. Chairman. What are we gonna do with the non-detectors? There are companies that have nitrogen emissions and should have reported themselves or applied for a permit. But these companies have not yet been properly identified. How many there are is still a mystery. How are we going to solve this problem? We have airports and a number of airports do not have a valid license. Nitrogen space will have to be found to bridge the difference between the use at the time the original legislation came into force and the current nitrogen emissions. There's a big difference. I do not know exactly how big that difference is, but I do know that the volume of air traffic has increased enormously. How's the secretary gonna solve that space and claim? Or is she going to accept a counter-emptive practice whereby we still allow certain activities to continue without a legal basis? How's that knot gonna get untangled?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u243	To be honest, I have a bit of a problem with the way Mr Moorlag criminalizes non-detectors. They should have applied for a permit, but they didn't, and now they're illegal. No, it's the other way around! The non-detectors had such a low nitrogen emission, for example,.0.05 moles that do not even require a notification, let alone a permit. Because the PAS went off the table, they suddenly became illegal because of these minimal nitrogen emissions in their operations. So now they are in danger of enforcement, with all the misery that this entails. So they're the victim, not the nonchalante offender. I would appreciate it if Mr Moorlag could correct that, because that is also a matter of doing justice to people who have fallen victim to policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u244	I don't think they'd be criminal. It is true that their activities are now referred to as 'unlegal'. That is the result of a ruling on the interpretation of the law. I would like to say that, and I would like to emphasise this, I do not disagree at all with Mr Bishop O'Donnell that these people have simply acted in good faith. I've been a county executive myself. Those PAS messages came to me and it was enough. That is why we need to find a solution. I feel sorry for those entrepreneurs, too. They talk to their bank and have an investment plan, but that bank gets chilly and says "yes, hm," like it's not legal. That is what people are awake about, and I am well aware of that, and there must be a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u245	Exactly. I was just specifically concerned with the non-detectors. These are the companies that did not even have to report because their nitrogen emissions were too low. This must not therefore be linked to a so-called obligation to apply for a licence. There was no duty. They didn't even have to come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u246	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u247	I see non-verbal to Mr Moorlag that that has been corrected. I think that's right for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u248	No, I can nuance it. There are companies that were indeed below those very low values, but there are probably also companies that emit more nitrogen, but have not reported and are not licensed. That's a problem that's under the waterline, and we need to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u249	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u250	Now I'm gonna have to get back on track. I was talking about some complications. I would have stayed at the airports. If we are going to spend nitrogen space, we will also have to develop a proper nitrogen registration system, a nitrogen bank. We talked about this last year. My question to the Minister is how far that is. Are we at all capable of doing the whole record properly and of keeping the accounts in order? I have one more point, also in the direction of Mr Bishop, because I have seen an amendment from his hand suggesting that the reporters should be legalized by law. The question to the Minister is this. Is that amendment legally sustainable? How does that relate to European law? I believe that we should avoid thinking that we are making a solution, which again will not be able to pass the test with the judge. Is it, therefore, legally feasible if that road is to be followed? Mr. Chairman. Working with a threshold is also part of the law. In the past, the Council of State has issued a fairly destructive opinion on whether such a threshold can be applied. Can the Minister assure us that the proposed threshold, which is now being applied, is legally sustainable? Mr. Chairman. I do not need my speaking time for a long time because I have already been able to report a lot of things in the case of interruptions. When the PvdA makes the balance, I have to say: the desire to pull it all loose is very deep with us, but then there must be a package that also gives comfort and that the legal impact tests can withstand. I have already said at the beginning of my speech that I have great doubts about this. I've listed all the claims. Can they all be served by the nitrogen space released from the source measures and the remedial measures proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u251	It keeps me occupied. I've been interrupting first, and I've heard the answers. I hear Mr Moorlag talking about 'the legal test'. Could Mr Moorlag tell me what convinced him to vote for an empty framework law without measures? What was the "legal test" of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u252	There is now an attempt to put me in some sort of frame, as if the framework law of GroenLinks were the hairminder oil or the panacea to do everything. That's a framework law. There must be a package of measures underneath. The PvdA has ideas about that. My group did not even have to use so much 'intellectual thinking' to speak with the words of Mr Harbers. The Remkes Committee has already done so. It has made over 150 recommendations, over 150. Cleaner on the hook you can't get it presented. Those recommendations come from a committee with a signature that Mr Geurts should be very pleased with. So this is not a private view of the MP Moorlag and it is not a party view of the PvdA, but it is simply the Remkes Committee that has formulated the measure. That committee has set out what it takes to get things back together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u253	I think this is a repeat of what you said to previous interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u254	But there's not going to be any clarity, Mr. Chairman. I'm not taking any of that advice from the Remkes Committee. I have already taken on board a number of elements in a motion that Mr Moorlag has co-signed. The motion on the balance of substances has been adopted and is now before the Minister. But I'm still very surprised. There is a package of measures by the Minister, in its law, in the explanatory memorandum. This was calculated by the PBL. The stamp "feasible" is on it. With all due respect, we cannot say that about the proposals made by the Remkes Committee, because they have not been calculated by the PBL. So what is wrong with the Minister's package of measures? I ask Mr Moorlag once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u255	Mr Geurts began by saying that he did not alter the Remkes Committee's opinion. He will! He does, by setting the bar lower than the Remkes Committee recommended. There may be a pass-through. But I read the Minister's letter about the municipality of Zaanstad and whether the housing is going to start there. And I hear the signals from society, from the fellow governments, from the congregations. I'm picking up signals from business. Mr Geurts may then be convinced that it is such a good law, but that is not how he is experienced in society and that is not how he is experienced by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u256	I really do not know what communication Mr Moorlag reads, because I also see communications from builders who may not be very positive, but at least positive about the Minister's law, and are positive about the possibility that the Chamber will adopt that law. I would once again like to ask Mr Moorlag what is wrong with the package of measures contained in the Minister's explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u257	These measures are not so crazy wrong, but is it enough? That's the question. Is it enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u258	I have just listened carefully to the interruptions and wondered if there would be anything else. Actually, it just comes down to one question. In this package of measures is the foundation of a building threshold, even in such a way that the Council of State said: "Joh, you make it unnecessarily difficult if you want to compensate the package of measures precisely in the construction, so put it in the law. It is so solid, then you have a generic building threshold in the Netherlands." On top of that, two things like the amendments before us will be followed: an increase in ambition, not at that ridiculous rate in 2030, but in 2035, and legal certainty for PAS detectors and the PAS exempts. Mr Moorlag also said: I want this stability, I want farmers to see it again. Actually, I only have one question. Does Mr Moorlag really say no to a law that will simply allow the building threshold and all construction activities in the Netherlands from next year on? Does he really say no to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u259	The question is asked wrongly. The question should be: what law would Mr Moorlag say yes to? I think I have just formulated a number of elements which I think are necessary. And not so much to content me, but to really do something about the needs of society, to get that stagnant housing back on track and to give space to all the companies that want to expand, who want to create jobs. It just takes more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u260	Finally. It's gonna take more than that? Anyone could want that. This is the art of how you get majorities. This is also the law that allows EUR 6 billion: EUR 3 billion for nature, EUR 2 billion for all other measures in agriculture and EUR 1 billion for construction. Does Mr Moorlag say no to 6 billion, not knowing when that will ever happen? It's a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u261	No, I'm not saying no to that at all. That's just what it takes. And I didn't argue for extra nature measures here either. I haven't done that right now. That too is an element. I have yet to see whether all these ground-management organisations are getting that money in time and well spent. I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that we can continue infinitely with the plating of areas and with recovery, but that more source measures are really needed to tackle the problem fundamentally. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. We should not recoup the dead end that we took with the PAS at the time, not so much with the PAS itself, but rather with its application.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u262	I think the points of view are clear. Were you ready? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u263	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u264	I'm chasing you because I see this pile of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u265	In the meantime, I also said that I had already raised many points in the case of interruption. You were chasing me a little bit, but when I look at the measure of the clock that clock is not made by the Remkes committee...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u266	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u267	...I had some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u268	Thank you. It's also about quality, of course, I always say. I shall now give the floor to Mr Madlener, who is going to be very slow, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u269	Thank you, Mr President. I'm definitely gonna try that. It was genuine emotion and a lot of frustration. I have been around for a long time now and this subject has dominated the agenda for years. There is also a great deal coming together: the European Union's policy, the role of our Parliament and the question of what nitrogen really is. That is where we are at the heart of the problem. Nitrogen is a nutrient for plants. A lot of plants like nitrogen, but some plants don't. If you are a plant that thrives well with little nitrogen, then you can compete less well with other plants and then you do less well. So that's what's going on. But to say that nature is bad? I don't recognize that. I've re-examined the latest state of affairs. I'm 51 years old and I grew up in the country. I can remember very well how things used to be, what nature and the environment were like. The big scandals with pollution I remember well, the acid rain that turned out to be not so bad after all. Thanks to good policies and technical developments, I see it getting cleaner. So I have taken up the latest state of affairs and I would like to share it with the Chamber, and with all the people at home. You get here when you hear this almost the feeling that the Netherlands is very bad for it and that is not the case. The Netherlands is actually a very beautiful and clean country. I have here the record of emissions of air pollutants. Then you see a huge drop from 1990. That's really impressive. Then I have here the emission of ammonia. That's the nitrogen we're talking about here from the farmers. What about ammonia emissions since I was a kid when I was 20? Well, in 1990 it was almost 350 kilotons and now it's a little over 100 according to this state. It's dropped hugely! It really is a phenomenal achievement for our farmers to secrete so much less nitrogen in those 30 years. I am referring here to surface water with nitrogen compounds. That is what we are talking about here from 1990 onwards. I don't know if it can be seen at home, I don't think so, but it's halved. Halfway! That's all good news. The air is cleaner than when I was 20, even though we're with a lot more people. We no longer have 15 million Dutch, but now almost 18 million, partly thanks to the policy of the VVD. That's a huge achievement, isn't it? I also took a look at the state of the plants, because we are always talking about the endangered plants. I found a red list. It was first drawn up in the year 2000 and I have one here from 2014. It actually says that between 2000 and 2014 three plants disappeared from the Netherlands, while six were added. I'll mention them, too, because that probably doesn't mean anything to people. What is extinct, at least in the Netherlands, because elsewhere they will probably occur, is: the field green, the forest butterfly and the small mud grass. Those plants have disappeared in those years, but what's added is: the red forest bird, the broad rai, the willowland, the field skinthruid, the narrow lungthrub and geoordered cornslaw. I'm pretty sure no one knows what these plants look like, but that's what we're talking about here. We are talking here about policies that favour low nitrogen nature at the expense of nitrogen-loving nature. And everything's actually just as beautiful. If you want to see nitrogen-rich nature, you can do it easily, because then you just have to go to a beautiful forest. Then you look around and you see nitrogen-rich forest. So the trees are doing very well. That's why all these trees need to be cut down. At least that's what some nature lovers think. They say, "This landscape has no trees. We've got some dusty sand or heath here. That was caused by years of plaguing or grazing, and we want to keep it that way. Then we shouldn't have trees there." But yes, they do grow there, so those trees will be removed. That's basically our nature policy: to keep what you have. While nature's power is natural that nature adapts. Then you get something different nature. Nature adapts, but that's not necessarily bad. That's no less beautiful, that's no less rich. There are very rich nature reserves, also very beautiful nitrogen-rich nature reserves possible. So what's going on? Do we have to do all this? Should we break down half our economy or, as the PvdA just said, go even further? You can't fly anymore, the car can't fly anymore and you name it. It's actually insane. There is no country that does this either. Belgium has exactly the same nitrogen problem. Germany, Denmark: all countries with intensive farming areas, like the Netherlands. They're not doing any of this. Of course, they'd be crazy. The Netherlands has a beautiful sector, a sector that is very clean and which has given us a much cleaner air over the last 30 years for even better food production. That's so handsome of our farmers! But where is the problem? That has actually started with the Natura 2000 sites. I can even remember that, because I was already somewhat politically involved at the time. Then we were also warned: if the Netherlands is going to designate 162 areas in our small country! If you are going to name species that do not like nitrogen, you are going to ask for problems; don't do that! But it happened anyway. The parties that are now in the government and most of the people here in the Chamber have done this. That's what we're being held to now. The Party for Animals is right about that. It is of course our own rules that create the problem. It's kind of a rule problem, actually. Belgium and Germany therefore do not, apparently, even though these rules are probably there, because they also have Natura 2000 sites. Anyway, they don't do that. But the Netherlands is going to take very far-reaching measures. The PVV finds that absolutely unacceptable. We don't think it's worth breaking down half our land and our agricultural position for a few nitrogen-avoiding species. It's just not worth it. The agricultural sector is doing very well. It's actually a kind of natural fundamentalism, you can say that in a nitrogen-rich country, we want to have low nitrogen species, and we're going to let everything go. But with a few blinkers, because the immigration of the VVD and the other parties, the left-wing parties, must of course continue. And what goes on, of course, is the burning of all that wood mass, for which most parties in this Chamber have voted. For that, entire forests are being hijacked in Estonia. It's all being shipped here to burn here. Well, that's going to happen. That's not what we're talking about all of a sudden. What happens if you don't do anything? That is also stated in the explanatory memorandum. Then the nitrogen emissions will continue to decrease. It's just gonna go down if you don't do something. If we don't do anything now, so no law and no bullying those farmers, it's just going down steadily because those farmers are doing so well. So what are we doing here to tackle a legal problem created by the parties in the government itself? That's crazy, isn't it? We also have many new species in the Netherlands. The birds of prey are doing much better. Think of the beaver, the otter, the geese, I don't even want to talk about it, because it's choking on the geese, the porpoise, the seal. These are all species that are at the top of the food chain and are doing very well. That policy also costs another 6 billion in taxpayers' money, but that was before the deal. I thought it was $6 billion in taxpayers' money. Those are the direct costs because farmers have to disappear. It's about useless taxpayers' money. And that's not even the damage we have. If we continue with this law and if we are going to set the targets as presented in the deal with the SP........................................................................................................................................... The animal's death is therefore inconceivable, because these animals do not want to stand on stainless floors at all. They don't want to be locked up with air scrubbers. They just want some fresh air. And why are we doing this? Because we refuse to look at those fundamental natural values. When we say as the Netherlands "we want nature that suits the Netherlands better; not low in nitrogen, but just the nature we have now," if we continue like this, there is nothing going on. Then we don't have to do all this. Then the agricultural sector and the 600,000 people who work in it will have a future again. We'd be crazy if we cut that in half, wouldn't we? I predict that will happen. A halving of nitrogen emissions is really unfeasible. The same goes for the draconian measures. We can't afford all these investments. Those farmers don't want that either. There are many smaller farms. Fortunately, because we love the small scale that the Netherlands has and we want to keep it that way. They can't make millions of investments in all kinds of installations and things like that. They can't compete with that either. The door from Ukraine is wide open with cheap agricultural products and then we continue in this way. That's insane. The PVV is not going to agree to that. Mr President, I will finish. I am almost at the end of my brief speech, although it is about a lot. You can bully the farmers, you can take draconian measures, you can do that, but if you don't deal with immigration and if the Netherlands is still fuller with 18 million people and you have to add a million houses, what are you doing? I have already mentioned biomass. The fields must be filled with solar panels and windmills. Those parties are gonna be okay with that. The PVV doesn't like that future. We say stop fixing the nitrogen-poor nature, just leave nature alone, leave the farmers alone and leave the taxpayers alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u270	Thank you. I see that Mr Geurts has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u271	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Madlener expects me, when I hear this story, to talk again about the difference between the various spokesmen of the PVV. There is no consistency yet, but that is not my question at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u272	Then I don't know what the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u273	My question is this. Mr Madlener just mentioned that if you don't do something, it will fail. What is the reason, according to Mr Madlener?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u274	That is standing policy and that is for example: the cow more in the meadow. Very good things have happened, too. I have already congratulated the farmers on the enormous achievement in the field of environmental taxation. This is a good question from Mr Geurts. I would also like to point out that all countries around us are doing things quite differently. There is no one in a nature reserve who measures how much nitrogen falls from the air and where it comes from. We don't know that at all. Those are all calculations. All countries do it in a different way. It's totally a paper reality. What we're doing here: it's all an assumption. We don't know. Denmark does not feel that way. How far does that nitrogen go? All countries do things differently and in this case they do things better than the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u275	At least I hear support for a motion on a model ensemble when I come up with that. But that's not what my question is about either. My question was specific: how are things going down? Mr Madlener says: by a general development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u276	Because of the achievements of the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u277	I will tell you: it is the climate agreement that lets it go down. And then Mr Madlener was quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u278	No, because my message is correct. What if you don't do anything right now and we don't pass this law? Even then, nitrogen emissions still go down. We're for grazing. Of course. The nitrogen emissions do not have to rise from us either, but even if they do not go down, we find the Netherlands a clean country and a beautiful country, with beautiful nature. Look at the beautiful nature documentaries that are being made. Take a walk in nature and look around. We're okay with it if it is and if it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u279	I'm not gonna tell you where Mr. Geurts lives. Thank you, Mr. Madlener. Yeah, very quiet. You know that. Mr Bishop now has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u280	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. A while ago I asked in a private agricultural app group: Do any of you know a company that is registered as a PAS detector? Mind you, it was a private group. I was surprised at the reluctant reaction. I went on to ask, "What about a non-collector?" The reaction was even more hesitant: why do you want to know? Mind you, I know all these people personally. "Why do you want to know?" Then I asked him a question. And what was the reason? Spanish was afraid that a request for enforcement and possibly a legal procedure would follow if their company, their address, became known and became public. "Because the disappearance of the PAS regime means that we are acting illegally." I knew it was like this on paper, but that's what reality looks like... I was stunned. We've had good conversations with these types of companies, too. That required me to look very closely again: what are we doing as a society, what are we doing as a government, these people, these companies, these peasant families? That they're awake because of the question: tomorrow there's a charge or something on the bus, and then what? Then what happens to my company? At that time, we made a commitment: we are going to work for a good and sound future for farmers and their families. That was also the reason why we were prepared to make political agreements to ensure that the present nitrogen law, which also has natural objectives, would improve through good amendments, so that we could support it. We have said: without legal guarantee of the legalization of PAS detectors, non-detectors and other problems, we are not voting for any nitrogen law. This legal guarantee, although not yet for a specific group of cases, is the subject of a motion for a resolution, so that we can at least begin to do so. That is a very complex target group. There is also hardly any idea of how this should be handled. May I finish this point, Mr. Chairman? I am sorry to keep Mrs Bromet waiting so long; I do not think that is very courteous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u281	Well, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u282	But it's a little more convenient, I guess. In addition, some other guarantees have been or are being issued: a hardness clause in the result obligation, an agricultural agreement to be drawn up and a review of the critical deposition value. There will also be room for provinces to play with the budget for clean-up and engineering and management measures, so that an optimal nitrogen reduction approach can be secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u283	Mr Bishop spoke about a series of good amendments and legal safeguards. I have the amendment to item No. 19 read. That's what I submitted to some experts for a while. I cannot judge that as a simple Member of Parliament, but the experts I have consulted say that PAS detectors can legalise, but this can only be done at the expense of other permits already granted. So what one wins, that has to turn the other in. In doing so, all notifications will have to be re-assessed. That's gonna cost a lot of money. How does Mr Bishop look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u284	Yeah, in a way, that's right. The PAS detectors are already in the annex to this law. There's some kind of plan of action in there. The non-detectors, which I went into just a moment ago when I was interrupted, aren't in yet. You will indeed have to fill that nitrogen registration system. Once you have actually achieved nitrogen reduction, you will be able to provide those companies, the PAS detectors and the non-detectors with the necessary permits. So it is not at the expense of other companies. It depends, for example, on how fast the programme for buying up peak loaders is running in nature areas. If that happens quickly, the registration system will fill up quickly and you can speed up with all kinds of permits and even with construction, housing and infrastructure and so on. It is therefore a complicated situation, but it is not the case that other categories are being put at a disadvantage on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u285	Well, it is, as Mr Bishop admits, about the surrender of licences granted, he calls it: peak loaders in the vicinity of nature reserves. They're often farmers too, so those farmers leave. The space they create in terms of nitrogen can then be used to legalize the other farmers who are not in the vicinity of a nature reserve. Is that the story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u286	For example, but the nitrogen taken is always extracted for the benefit of nature. So it is a system that is fairly balanced. But we are concerned that the PAS detectors, the non-detectors and another category of problems have got into trouble as a result of the failure of public policy. In this respect, the PAS legislation did not meet the reasonable requirements, although this was also largely due to implementation. A new legal basis must therefore be created. You can say that we ourselves created a legal problem for ourselves. That's true in a sense, but you'll have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u287	Finally, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u288	I think that Mr Bishop is making it very clear where it stands. That's the way it is. I appreciate that very much. I have also been to a few farmers this week who are waiting with fear and trembling for what is to come. I'm gonna take another look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u289	That's good. I suggest you proceed, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The new target for the longer term, 50% reduction in 2035, is for us as a SGP I am not hiding it from a huge bone in the throat. Increasing the level of ambition is not our choice. We finally took that choice in the discussions we had because there is a clear improvement on a number of other issues. That's how it works in politics sometimes. That's how we stayed involved. But if we do not fill that ambition in a very good way later, fortunately, we have some time to do so, but we will have to think about it early. However hard the Remkes Committee has said that even 50% reduction is feasible by 2030, we see great uncertainties and risks in practice, apart from the question of how the government is going to pay for this. It is not possible for farmers to be put at the expense of potentially unachievable targets. The Habitats Directive requires that Natura 2000 measures take account of the socio-economic impact. It is enshrined in the law that this also applies to the implementation of the nitrogen reduction programme. Also look at explosion risks on certain low-emission floors. It cannot be the case that, because of great ambitions, low-emission houses are being controlled in such a way that these risks are only increasing. A hardness clause has also been proposed to prevent unpleasant surprises caused, inter alia, by failing emissions abroad. Once again, a good future perspective for farmers and their families is at the forefront of the SGP. In addition, in line with the legal obligations, we must ensure proper management of nature. I have already mentioned the troubles and the headaches that it gives to the kitchen tables because of the threat to business continuity. The government is responsible for a sound solution and for providing legal certainty. The amendment that Mrs Bromet has just referred to has now been tabled. In this way, the freeing nitrogen space can be used with priority for this legalization stroke. I think that this point has been discussed in sufficient detail. There is another point. We also discussed double counting in the talks. Whether or not that was the case, it was a bit of a stick, but I am sure the Minister will be able to shed some light on that. A bottleneck is also grazing and fertilizing. Looks like the judge thinks you need a permit for cows in the meadow and fertile soil. That can't be true, can it? You don't need a license to exhale nitrogen, do you? Nor can it be that you would need a permit to keep your soil fertile. We cannot do that, and it does not do justice to the fact that we have been grazing and fertilising for decades. How is the Minister going to ensure that farmers do not have to apply for a permit for every grazing and fertilising season? As I said, the SGP wants a good future for all farmers, not just for the troubles, but for all farmers. That is why we want agreements to be made with farmers and chain parties on, among other things, the financing of the measures to be taken, the implementation of the nitrogen programme, the development and recognition of low-emission management and target requirements rather than resource requirements, with a clear mark on the horizon. Farmers just need to know where they stand, even in the longer term. They need to know where to go, where to go and how to get there. We are pleased that we have been able to agree that such an agreement will be reached. That was also a prerequisite to be able to agree to this law. Mr. Chairman. The use of positive energy in the sector is crucial in order to deliver the reduction call. I was recently with a dairy farmer who was able to achieve a 30% reduction in ammonia emissions by the year round balanced feeding of fresh grass and hay, with a huge reduction in external added feed. So you have to be a professional for that. You have to be a professional for that. And this is just one initiative. On my work visits I also encounter all kinds of other things. We must work together to ensure that management measures are given space and recognition. There really is a huge profit to be made. This can be achieved through target rules rather than resource rules. I think I read that in the pieces. And once again to confirm the Minister's approach: is that also the Minister's approach? And does the subsidy scheme also provide source-oriented sustainability for this purpose? Not only on paper, but also in practice. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to, among other things, organic pig farms which, because of their operation and open houses, have little room for emission reduction. That is the consequence of the animal welfare that prevails there. Is the Minister going to prevent this kind of situation from becoming the new ones? Mr. Chairman. The SGP has always advocated that the budget be shifted from clean-up to emission reduction measures on the farmyard. There is 1.7 billion for buy-in, while source measures have to do it by up to 800 million. That's not wise. Buying up businesses is relatively expensive. That's the kind of instrument you need to focus on. With emission reducing measures you can book more nitrogen gains for the same euro. I've seen that before, and I'm getting that signal from the provinces, too. It is important, as far as we are concerned, that the provinces should have at least more room to deploy emission reduction budgets in a more effective way than is currently the case and, if necessary, that they should also be able to draw on buy-back budgets. I think that has been given a good place in the agreements, and I would like to see that confirmed by the Minister, followed by a vigorous implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u291	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mr. Madlener. I have not limited the interruptions, but I am going to do so after the first term of the Chamber, because I notice that 85 questions have been asked together. Well, I think that's a little too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u292	Rough, huh? Some of us are gonna go crazy too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u293	I thought, "It's an important law."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u294	Sure! Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u295	And everyone was waiting for this moment. But it's getting all out of hand. So you'll be warned about later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u296	But Mr. Madlener is still allowed, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u297	Mr Madlener will have one more chance. But after that, it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u298	And I only signed up for ten minutes, so that's actually very limited. I was surprised that the SGP signed with the increase in targets in the deal with the SP. Mr Bishop therefore asks the Minister a fair question. These animal conditions must not, of course, deteriorate. If you're gonna set such heavy targets, you're gonna be able to keep animals in airtight stables. You're not gonna knock anything out. That's not animal-friendly. That's not what we want. Then there's another objection. The investments that will have to be made are high. There may be large companies that can do that, but much smaller family and family companies do not have that investment space. They don't want to know what kind of balance sheets work, bank loans or whatever. How, then, does the SGP guarantee that this increase in scale, which is constantly continuing, will stop and that what is threatening to happen in pig farming will not happen: that the number of pigs will be reduced but the number of pig farmers will be reduced by 25%? Because then we are more concerned with reducing the number of pig farmers than with reducing the number of pigs. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Did the SGP even think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u299	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. There aren't that many things that wake me up, but these are things that can keep me a little out of sleep. This is indeed about animal welfare. You put the horse behind the cart, if I may remain in agricultural terminology, if you finally come up with technical solutions through emission reduction of nitrogen which reduces animal welfare. A cow in a locked room, that's not an animal-friendly thing. So you're gonna have to find a balance in that. You can never maximize it, so the policy must be aimed at optimization. This means that you are indeed looking at what animal welfare is and what animal welfare is served by. It's got to stay ahead of us. In this specific case alone, I would like to point out that if you really want to reduce emissions and that organic pig farming cannot do that, then that also applies to poultry farming in certain cases. If you realise that as a government you can't work with the blunt axe by saying 'you didn't meet the requirements, so you're going to be taken care of'. No, there's got to be an optimum on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u300	Good. Finally, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u301	Those are fine words from Mr Bishop. Only by raising the targets to that huge 50% reduction in 2035 and another intermediate target in 2025 can I hear, which is very soon, that you can hardly escape drastic measures or Mr De Groot's solution: to halve the livestock. It's one of the two things that's going to happen, and you signed it. I still find it very difficult to believe, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u302	You made it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u303	I'm not convinced this is the only route. Looking at what has been happening in the last ten years, which has led to emission reductions, I have great confidence that there is still much to gain. In the framework of the Climate Agreement, measures have been taken and you have shown it yourself in the graphs that have been really effective. Within the energy agreement, measures are being taken which give me good hope that if we take stock of the situation in 2028, we will see prospects that perhaps it will come closer. You're gonna get me into the Achilles heel, because this was the biggest threshold for us: are we gonna swallow this or not? Making a compromise is, of course, pluses and minuses, giving and taking, and eventually we swallowed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u304	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u305	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of short, I agree with the questions of CDA and VVD regarding the dairy farmers who have developed an innovative plan around the Nieuwkoopse Plassen for the leasing of nitrogen space. I'd be happy to wait for the answer. The SGP also wants to improve the implementation of the current reorganisation measures. They're voluntary, and they have to stay that way. It is important that they are made sufficiently attractive. That is why I welcome the fact that we have been able to agree that the so-called professional ban is going to go away. Maybe I shouldn't use that term "good" anymore. I'll talk about a stopper order or a stopper demand in the future. Entrepreneurs must have room to take over a business elsewhere and continue. This may lead to an additional reduction in nitrogen on balance. That's how I spoke to a calf farmer next to a nitrogen-sensitive heath. He'd be happy to leave if he could go somewhere else. It is certainly not too bad to meet requirements for additional nitrogen reduction in the new company. You not only win the profits of that one company, but you also get an extra reduction on that other company. I would like to see, together with provinces and municipalities, a look at where opportunities lie for the red-for-red scheme and take advantage of these opportunities. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has previously been deeply concerned about all movements around external soldering. How is uncontrolled buying-in of agricultural holdings prevented by capitalist other parties? I'd like to hear how the Minister thinks he can control that. It is important that all nitrogen transactions are recorded. For each transaction, a net deposition is reduced on many hexagons. This must be recorded so that leakage of nitrogen space is prevented. Is the minister gonna take care of this with the provinces? We must avoid fragmentation through a central approach. Then the critical deposition values. I refer to the Hordijk Committee and, for short, I refer to Mr Geurts' contribution, who has made a strong contribution on this point. I can imagine that, on the advice of the Hordijk Committee, we are no longer looking at the cover per hectare, but at the cover per habitat. There is support from GroenLinks, among other things. That gives a piece of rest in realizing it. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Then the foreign influx. It has already been discussed and I do not need to name it. I'll stay with the Hordijk Committee for a while. The committee has put its finger on some important issues. The Committee notes that AERIUS is given much greater accuracy than is scientifically justified. I hope that GroenLinks will also listen to this. The committee proposes not to make a calculation at hectare level, but at habitat level. That's what I just mentioned. That would do much more justice to the scientific uncertainties and give more room for manoeuvre. The Committee recommends that AERIUS be placed over other European systems. That is the line that the CDA has also advocated and which we will support. Furthermore, Hordijk puts the finger on measuring with two sizes. In the case of traffic projects, no more than 5 kilometres is counted, because deposition is no longer anything and falls away from background deposition, and in all other projects it is calculated to an infinite distance and creates a false reality. I've put my finger on it before. My call is: stop counting here after a few kilometers. We now clearly have a generic policy and that allows us to run the AERIUS calculation buttons. What's the Minister gonna do with this? An example has already been given. Look at the maritime service port at Urk that can't go on because of 0.02 moles. That's not real anymore, is it? It's a minimal deposition miles away from Urk. Mr. Chairman. I'm slowly at the end of my Latin. Like my fellow Members, I have seen that AERIUS has drawn much more nitrogen-sensitive nature than ecologists have. Take, for example, the habitat type of domestic crow vegetation on the Veluwe. There are 184 hectares of sign-in at AERIUS and 97 hectares of cart-out. This can't be happening. In this way you do not come to a careful decision-making about nitrogen-sensitive nature. I would like an explanation from the Minister of how this can be done better. Finally, the SGP remains committed to sober nitrogen and Natura 2000 policies, with space and future for our farmers and builders, and we can do that if we look at the practice and the facts in a healthy sense and look together at how this can be achieved in a feasible and efficient way. I am happy to continue to do so, also with the support of those WhatsApp groups and working visits, which I make. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u306	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66. He has 30 minutes' speaking time. That's not so bad, is it? You don't need that many words, do you? Mr De Groot. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I got a book from Jac last night. P. Thijsse in his hands. There may be people among you who remember that. He was also a fantastic naturalist. He showed in the 1930s how rich our nature was. Then it's about herbs, flowers, the field owl, the field lark, the grutto, the kitten, the house sparrow. There were a lot of them. Of that original biodiversity from that time, only 70% of the world's biodiversity is left. This is 50% in Europe and only 15% in the Netherlands. So we have lost a great deal of that wealth. A third of our nature is now in a very unfavourable state and more than half of our habitats are in poor condition. Mr. Chairman. We're part of nature. It affects people in the environment of nature where there is too much nitrogen, often at stables, directly in their health. In the corona crisis we see that corona strikes harder, more direct and more deadly in the vicinity of intensive livestock areas. But it also affects nature indirectly. It's about the relationship between plants, insects and birds. It has already been said: there are many more butterflies. Yes, nitrogen-loving butterflies have increased, but the number of butterflies living in low nitrogen areas is decreasing. If we have fewer insects, we'll eventually lose the birds. Mr. Chairman. Nitrogen is acidifying. It sits in the bottom and the lime washes away. This, for example, breaks their legs, because they are no longer strong enough. To keep things simple, you can make the following equation. It is as if nature only eats hamburgers: far too much and far too one-sided. Then you get an obese nature, which is very one-sided and poor. In May 2019, the Council of State made the statement: "Dear government, you have not properly protected nature. We are now putting an end to the licensing of the economy for construction purposes." That actually had two reasons. It is often mentioned that the PAS was not strong enough. This turned out to be the case, because the underlying promises from the agricultural sector were not respected. But another factor was that in the last ten years nature policy has been broken down enormously, so you no longer had buffers around the nature areas, the connecting zones. As a result, the remaining nature has become so incredibly vulnerable that the last nature can only be protected by draconian measures. It is then a bit ironic when there are parties here in the Chamber that make a caricature of nature policy. We have a mission to protect our nature. Just because she's ours and belongs to us. Where did that nitrogen come from? Of course, all sectors that produce something emit nitrogen: traffic, industry and living. It's about NO. But the largest source of all nitrogens comes from agriculture, i.e. 65%. The nitrogen that is bad for nature is 90% from livestock farming. Sure, all sectors have to contribute, but most ammonia.... which is bad for nature... comes from livestock farming. So we have to do something with that. That is why D66 has come up with a vision of the future of agriculture, which is not only good for the farmer, but also for the earth. Agriculture is a major user of nitrogen and this use is not as efficient as we think. The nitrogen used by agriculture is mostly imported from Brazil in the form of soya. Of every 100 kilos of nitrogen used in agriculture, 70 kilos is lost in production. That nitrogen goes into the air, in the form of ammonia, or washes out to our groundwater. So the efficiency of our agriculture can really be much higher. That is the idea behind circular farming. You don't feed animals that people can eat. You don't import that nitrogen anymore. You're gonna work on the manure so you don't have any rotten manure. The manure is rotten, because pee and poop come together in the basements and rot. This causes ammonia and methane to rise into the air. If you make sure this doesn't happen, you get a nice, mature manure, which also contains carbon for the organic substances in the soil. Mr. Chairman. That's the third one. I told you, the soil is now acidified by an excess of nitrogen, but the soil could also be our friend. In one hand earth is more life, more organisms than we have to humans on the globe. There's 3.5 billion years of innovation in that soil, in that biology. All these organisms work together to keep those plants healthy. So if we really want to move towards a sustainable agriculture with less nitrogen emissions, then we will have to work on circular agriculture. Then you're gonna lower those emissions. Of course, you can do the same with technical measures. If you prevent that rotten slurry from developing, that is of course also very good. And yes, Mr. Chairman, you can do the same with fewer animals. That's what's going to happen now, but I think it's even more interesting to work on that transition. But the need is so high and we have so many animals on our small surface, on our stamp, that we really have to think about the number of animals. It is therefore a good thing that we now have a package, a package of EUR 6 billion for the next ten years. That package contains 2 billion to reduce the number of animals, roughly one billion to work on circular agriculture and reducing emissions, and a doubling of the nature budget. That is a lot of money and I say to everyone who doesn't think it's enough, at least it's enough to meet the goals we have and hopefully agree with each other when this law is passed today. It has also been vetted and there really is a programme behind it. Even stronger, Mr. Chairman. The law before us today also contains an obligation to achieve results. That's actually the most far-reaching obligation you can have as a government to really strengthen that nature and just comply with the law. There are also things that are good to get the construction and the economy back on track, because there has been a lot of delays. The list of projects and housing projects that have been delayed is growing every day. It is therefore a good thing that there should be an exemption for construction, even if it was only for the construction of windmills. However, there are a number of vulnerabilities for the D66 Group and I would like to ask the Minister. This is about legal sustainability, because I also read what good lawyers write about it. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. We are talking about the relationship between Article 2 of the Birds and Habitats Directives, which actually states that social and cultural conditions must be taken into account throughout their implementation. We are now coming up with a package and you cannot really insist that this "feasible and affordable" argument also applies to the need to combat this deterioration. If that nature isn't there, then you're after the facts. How does the Minister see this and how does she see the relationship between these two articles? Mr. Chairman. Then the external salad. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has questions about this. What exactly is the deal with that licensed space? Suppose, for example, you have a stable where 100 cows can be found and where you actually have 50 in it. If you're gonna flip that stable externally, because you're gonna quit, you can actually put 70 cows in another stable for that. 30% is for nature, but actually that means an increase in the number of animals. How does the Minister see that? And how is she actually going to prevent the external netting... The D66 Group can, by the way, imagine this, because at the beginning of last year's crisis... It is therefore a temporary measure. We said at that time: you have to do so temporarily in order to meet the greatest need. How is the Minister going to ensure that there are no unintended effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u308	A short question, Mrs Bromet
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u309	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. I was just talking to Mr Bishop about the amendment to item No. 19 on legalizing the PAS detectors. Is that something that D66 is going to support?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u310	Yeah, that's gonna support D66. We do that for two reasons. The first reason is that the government must be a reliable government. The PAS was not a good idea in this respect either, because only a notification was sufficient. As a result, people who have done nothing wrong under the law are now without a permit. As a government, you have a duty to solve that. I think they're sharing that Chamberwide. What is in that amendment is an additional programme to make that possible. So you're really gonna guarantee that you have that space before you spend it, because that's the system of that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u311	I have a supplementary question. It also comes from my colleague Suzanne Kröger from another committee and another file. Does that mean D66 is going to launder Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u312	Lelystad Airport has only reported the buildings and not the flights and traffic. So I think there is still a discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u313	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u314	Mr. Chairman. Then there's a question about the nature permit. The nature permit is issued for an indefinite period but always has a relationship to a dynamic system like nature itself. Aren't you supposed to limit that nature permit to ten years? I'll ask the Minister through the chairman. Then the low-emission stables. The CBS had a critical report on this. There is generally a broad belief in innovations. D66 is also for innovations, but they really have to work. They really need to get to the source. How does the Minister see it that there is still a difference between the standards of the rafting industry, and I do not even know what the abbreviation means, but at least those are the standards behind that type of innovation and the practice, where low-emission stables seem to be working a lot less? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group has a number of desires to further strengthen the package and thus to get closer to what I just call "the reference" of many parties in this Chamber, and that is Remkes. The first is ambition. D66 wants a higher ambition of the package, so that you strengthen the whole, but so that you also give agriculture the second reason for clarity about what is offered in the long term in addition to the Climate Agreement on nitrogen. We are coming up with a proposal. We support the SP Group's amendment to increase that ambition. Mr. Chairman. For the D66 Group, it is also important that we have results quickly. That is why we also support an amendment that will introduce an intermediate objective in 2025. The period between 2020 and 2030 is actually too long to allow this to happen. For this reason, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament believes that it is a good thing that a new, ambitious goal should be set in 2025. This also helps to speed up this area-based approach in the provinces. A few weeks ago, the news came in that there are peak chargers. I was surprised at that in the first place, because they are companies that are very close to Natura 2000 sites and have high emissions. So it would be very effective and efficient to start with that. I was surprised that this did not seem to be known to the provinces and that there were journalists who had to find out. We shall put forward a motion on this subject to the effect that those peak chargers should be approached as a matter of priority. I'm just gonna call it "drink a cup of coffee" and watch these people take steps. Sometimes they've been there for generations, so you have to deal with that carefully, but you can make them an offer that is really good, flexible and tailor-made. If it's young farmers who want to move, you have to do it. I don't think you should say: if you leave here, you may never do anything again. So D66 really wants to give the Minister the room to deal with those peak pushers in a targeted way, so that we get results quickly. Good for nature and good for the economy. Then there's the monitoring. Monitoring is incredibly important. That is a point that D66 has often called attention to. There is an annual inspection and a biannual rhythm throughout the package to ensure that you do not find out too late that you are not going to achieve your goals, because there is an obligation to achieve results. Is the Minister going on a field trip to each Natura 2000 site every year? And is she going to do visual inspections to really know what's going on? So not only measure, but also look on the spot. To be sure of those results, it is important to strengthen the relationship with the provinces. A number of provinces have got off to a good start, has really come up with area-oriented plans with an approach they have been mentioned today but a number of provinces are still very reluctant, actually has a wait-and-see attitude. We cannot afford that with each other, because in the end we are not going to improve that nature and we are not going to have that space for authorisation. So holding back is not an option. D66 will support an amendment on strengthening relations with the provinces. Mr Futselaar will be the author. Sometimes you see movements in provinces that are good and sometimes less. Nieuwkoop has been mentioned a few times. There has been an approach taken from the agricultural sector, where I look very critically at whether it has any real effect. We shouldn't play ball with license room. I also know, from a field trip that I made myself there, how difficult Nieuwkoop is. It's stuck between urban areas. There are some farmers out there that you can move. You've got to approach it in a targeted way. If you're going to look at peak chargers, you can do something there. But beware of proposals that will ultimately not only help agriculture, but also nature. Mr. Chairman. The future of farmers is incredibly important and there was, of course, a lot of unrest in the last year, because there is a lot of uncertainty about the future. Farmers have been plagued for years with legislation which has been late each time and is just too little, which means that a lot of almost conflicting laws actually apply to such a farmer's inheritance. I call it a little 'if the calf has drowned, the put regulation is dampened': too late and too little. And then there is, at least in the experience, such a sword of Damocles with nitrogen above. But if we don't settle nitrogen now, the Water Framework Directive is next. So it is very important to give that clarity now. That is why it is good that we have that clarity not only with climate, but also with nitrogen. The idea of an agricultural agreement has already been put forward today. On an agricultural agreement without these measuring points, from where it is to lead, D66 has always been very hesitant, because we know the players in the market who are going to dominate it. I refer in particular to the CBL and the FNLI, who have actually become professionals in talking about beautiful plans which then disappear in the drawer. If there is an agricultural agreement on D66, it will come with these benchmarks, this really is an exercise that should be a success, in which business is really directly involved. We cannot take the account of this enormous task and impose this transition to circular agriculture unilaterally on the farmers. That's what we need to change the pay model for. Retail and manufacturing have a crucial role to play in this. The question to the Minister is whether, should such an agreement be reached, she is prepared to reach a real agreement with those who are at the helm in the Netherlands, and not with their representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u315	Brief question, Mrs Bromet. That's often the case with you, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u316	Yes. I'll get a little more of that, won't I? I also think that an agricultural agreement is useful. I agree with Mr De Groot's plea, but I have heard it from Mr Moorlag before, and I have always supported it. Mr De Groot now forgets to mention politics. The farmers' complaint is often that the policy is going that way for four years and the other four years. That is why I am sorry that there is no nitrogen agreement under which we can all stand today, because then you could have made that clear and now we do not know what will happen after the elections. How does Mr De Groot see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u317	Mrs Bromet is right to make a point of this. It has not been nice from a political point of view what has happened towards agriculture over the last 20, 30 years. Since the 1980s, we know that we have a problem with the number of animals in the Netherlands, that we have a problem with manure. There have been countless committees. I mentioned in my contribution to the budget the Wijffels Committee, which already said in 2001 that intensive livestock farming had crossed social boundaries and environmental boundaries. Since then, politics has not tackled the issue at its core, because it requires that you finally say what it stands on and what the problem is. That is not always appreciated, but it is necessary to do so with all love and respect. After all, that honesty precedes the restoration of confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u318	Good. The question was brief and the answer must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u319	Yeah, but I also have lyrics. I can take it into account, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u320	No, this was an interruption, so unfortunately it does not count in the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u321	Yeah, well, I'll finish up then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u322	Oh, that's great. You do get a bonus point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u323	I am using that point to continue with the point made by Mrs Bromet, which is an essential point. There has been a breach of confidence between politics, which in fact has not dared to move forward, and agriculture, which is kept on the leash every time with too little legislation. We really have to say: on nitrogen there is clarity, on climate there is clarity, and now together we are going to see how we are going to help farmers who want to stop and how we are going to help farmers who want to take steps towards sustainable agriculture. That's what we have to do together. The law now before us provides a basis for that. For D66 you can always step on that. As I would like to invite the PvdA to think about this, I really want to do so with GroenLinks, so that we can accept that law together. And then we have to see immediately when we can bring it together "never closer to Remkes"; so I'll just bless it. That would be a nice thing for me, because then politics will also send out a united signal. Mr. Chairman. I'm really gonna finish this. We are taking a big step in the right direction today. I would add: with the amendments that will follow and a single motion. This concerns the future of the Netherlands, clean air, the future of farmers, clean water and an environment in which we can all live pleasantly for generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u324	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. It is true; you have spoken neatly within the time. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have spent so much time on it this week that I would like to be brief, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u326	Do you think that's gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u327	I'm sure you won't mind. What is the issue and why did 50PLUS also participate in the consultation? That is because our country has a number of crises, namely the nature crisis, but certainly also the crisis in housing. And we're having a corona crisis. So that's what we need to figure out. That can only be done if, at least as far as nitrogen is concerned, the locks go off the door and we move towards a good future. Then it's always the question: do you do it with the one bird in the hand or with the ten in the air? In this case, we did not choose the view, but the one bird in the hand. We have tried in the forms of consultation when weighing up the proposals that are there to look at what really makes for an improvement in nature, even in the shorter term. So was there any way to improve the bill in that respect? How can we formulate accompanying policies properly? And how can we also settle a number of other issues of interest to the Netherlands? I'll start with construction. The construction is extremely important to us. And I'm not just talking about agriculture that makes sure the construction can't be here anymore. There's more. That is why, unlike a number of colleagues, I would like to start not with agriculture, but simply with the construction of houses, also looking at the Randstad. Because of course we have in the Randstad and the deposition there, not a problem caused by the construction. There are other factors involved. They must also be taken into account in this whole. I will also table a motion with Mr Harbers later. For example, in the Randstad, it is important to ensure that both the construction of 100,000 homes can continue here in the region and the activities in the Rotterdam harbour can continue. That means you also need to see where part of the nitrogen deposition comes from. And it's from shipping. As far as I am concerned, this also means a plea for the destruction of shipping routes and the very short-term creation of shore flow. And we also need to look at the "hanging place" for the cruise ships and the oil tankers off the coast. They also contribute to the problems along the entire North Sea coast, which is actually a Natura 2000 area suffering from emissions. So I would also like to hear a comment from the Minister on this. In order to have a sustainable system, we also felt it necessary to have more clarity in the short term. Look at the PAS. I said this morning, and that was not an insult, that the GroenLinks bill could also give a somewhat PAS-like impression, namely: you set a goal, but then there are no measures. You're also setting a target for 2030. One of the things that we have brought into the story is to introduce a faster measuring point into this bill and to make it manageable immediately. It's a difference whether you're talking about emission or critical deposition value, I'll admit that immediately. But the point is that we are already in 2005... That is why we, Mrs Dik-Faber and I, have tabled an amendment to have a faster time at which you can see whether it works and there can also be confidence for those who would like to conduct a legal procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u328	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u329	No, I see Mrs. Bromet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u330	Me too. But you said you'd keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u331	Yes. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u332	I have been hearing parties who support the law of the cabinet all day long say: well, we are doing so well, because we do have measures and the law of GroenLinks, which is clearly a framework law, is not. They therefore also qualify the law of GroenLinks as inappropriate. I understand that there is an agreement and that the objective has been slightly increased, but does that also mean that measures have been introduced? 'Cause it's got to be. It is not possible to achieve this by means of the same measures. Then what are the measures that have been introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u333	I don't feel free to have all the motions we've been talking about... That was twelve in total, if I've counted correctly... on behalf of my colleagues...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u334	You mean amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u335	The amendments are already available. No, you'll have something to expect in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u336	Oh, I don't know about all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u337	It's about the whole package. So it's about speed. For us, the following was of great importance. The cabinet promised 20 million for next year, on the basis of my motion. For the year after that, 2022, we asked for an extension together with the SP. It was essential for us, because it is also about housing for the elderly. We have talked about red-for-red to speed things up and to ensure that in rural areas there will be a strengthening of the quality of life and of the support there. We have also looked at the peak loaders, to tackle them, not only peak loaders in agriculture, but also outside, to bring speed as a whole. We have also looked at legal improvements in the bill to close gaps that lie ahead of AMvB and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u338	Mrs. Bromet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u339	I asked for measures to reduce nitrogen emissions. I didn't ask for community centers. These are very nice by-catches for the parties that have negotiated, but this is about the reduction of nitrogen. I don't hear it, but I suppose I'll see it all in the motions later. Mr President, I find it rather annoying. Today we are debating a law, while I read in the newspaper that there is an agreement. Every now and then there are amendments dripping in. So there seems to be a lot of motions coming up as well. I think that's a nasty way of doing things, I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u340	Yeah, but that's normal procedure. If I had already started filing motions, that would have been an anomaly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u341	No, it's always the debate and then motions. That's the spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u342	Yes. Mr President, I am sticking to the procedure in this respect. But I do want to say that for us, and I think I share that with Mrs Bromet, it is really about what is happening there and whether it is fast. That's why peak chargers are so important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u343	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u344	Mr. Chairman. I will save the rest of my speaking time in order to be able to read out my motions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u345	That's it. Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now have Mr Baudet on my list. He speaks on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u346	Thank you, Madam President. This here, this bill of law that we are discussing today, is the final declaration of war by Minister Schouten to the agricultural sector in the Netherlands. It is a death sentence for many peasant families who see their farms, their future and their life's work destroyed. It's supposed to be all about saving nature. The government calls it the "Law on nitrogen reduction and improvement of nature," but a better name would be the "Act on land ownership to accommodate even more immigrants." It is quite clear that these absurd plans, which will lead to the decimation of the agricultural sector and irreparable changes in our Dutch landscape, have nothing to do with the improvement of nature. As I have argued before, nitrogen is not bad for nature at all. In fact, it is by far the most important nutrient for plants. It's fantastic for most species. Only certain species of plants that do well in a low-food environment may be less likely if nitrogen emissions increase slightly. This applies to certain mosses and certain heath plants. But that nitrogen emissions can bring about different nature is quite different from that it would be bad for nature. It simply isn't. The members of the cabinet know that, too. That's why they allowed unbridled immigration. Hundreds of thousands of people have also been allowed to settle back in the Netherlands in recent years, which means that much more nitrogen is emitted. Because that's what people do. That's what companies do. That's what cars do. That's what planes do. If it was really them to do nature, if it was really pure and simple to do it to bring back total nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands, why have they done nothing against ever-increasing immigration for years? It defies any logic. Mr. Chairman. So there's something else behind it. In fact, we are talking here about common ground policy. Landjepick played through the band of the nitrogen reduction target. At least the Animal Party doesn't go around saying out loud that 1 million houses need to be built on agricultural land. It is clear that I totally disagree with this, but it is fair. At least they say what they stand for. I can appreciate this more than the cabinet, which also wants to build 1 million houses on agricultural land, but that, knowing that this is not a popular position, hides behind the self-created nitrogen problem. For why, for example, do farmers who make use of the termination scheme receive a lifetime professional ban on farming? If the scheme was really purely and exclusively intended to protect Nature 200 areas from nitrogen emissions, everyone could understand that it is not the intention of course that the day after you have been bought out you start a farm in exactly the same place. But why should this farmer never be allowed to do his job again, even in another place where no Natura 2000 nature has been built? It is clear that this policy is intended to reduce the agricultural sector as such. People are choosing immigration and against the farmers and want to have the land of those farmers. The government also continues to hide behind the ruling of the Council of State of May 2019, but the Council of State has actually said nothing other than that the Dutch calculation method used to grant permits under the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, was not in line with EU rules. If the government had really been purely and simply to comply as much as possible with that statement by the Council of State, it could have easily solved this legal accounting problem by opting for a realistic calculation method as is used in Germany and in other countries. Germany uses a European calculation model, LOTOS-EUROS. The Agri Facts Foundation has calculated what it would mean if we also used this German model in the Netherlands. Turned out what? If we were to use this model, the target for 2030 would have been achieved in the Netherlands by now. Even the Hordijk Committee, which the Minister himself created to advise on the Dutch method of calculation, calls for Dutch policy to be passed on to the German model. Why does the Minister keep refusing this? I'd like an answer. Mr. Chairman. If this bill is adopted, a legal nitrogen reduction obligation for the year 2030 will be established. A binding result obligation. If this law is adopted, future governments will therefore be obliged to continue the current nitrogen policy. The Climate Act succeeded in laying down policies until 2030 and further by law, and now the same trick is being done with this nitrogen law. This is contrary to all democratic logic, at least shortly before the elections. That is why we are opposed to this course of action for a purely democratic reason. It is unacceptable that a government should want to rule over its own term of office in this way, and would just as quickly press a bill through both chambers, which would set out policies for the next ten years. Apart from the fact that it is completely irrational, that we use wrong calculation methods and that it is immoral and harmful to the Dutch cultural landscape, it is also contrary to the fundamental principles of our democracy. So for that reason, too, my appeal is not to accept this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u347	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Baudet once again has the opportunity to carry out his supervisory and legislative task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u348	Good. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u349	His claim that democratic principles are being violated is simply not correct. Any future government can make other laws. In principle, laws apply for an indefinite period. We need to be a little careful with our institutions and our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u350	Good. You've made your point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u351	I really disagree with that. This is just to rule over your grave. This is making laws that apply for a long time and bind future governments. I think that is really contrary to the principles of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u352	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, I think, how much the restoration of nature, of God's creation, motivates me to commit myself to this arena. For decades, an imperfect economic system with a far too low price for pollution and a neglect of the creation entrusted to us has led to too much one-dimensional economic growth and to too much ecological pain. In this cabinet period we see the first steps to turn the tide. From livestock farming with too high environmental and disease pressures to sustainable circular agriculture, from a decade, nature policy turned out to be a billion-dollar impulse for nature restoration and the planting of millions of trees, from an economy built on fossil fuels to a circular economy with a significant reduction in polluting emissions. All this marks a change to a more healthy balance between economics and ecology. A change that is much needed, but sometimes will come with a painful change. In short, a challenging transition. Because the major reduction in nitrogen emissions and deposition is primarily about caring for our vulnerable nature, but also about living and working in a densely populated delta and with family businesses that saw the Council of State's PAS statement change their perspective from well to jet black overnight. It is therefore important that we discuss a law with each other today, and hopefully we will soon establish it, which is right for all, for the severely devastated nature, for entrepreneurs and for those seeking housing and for agricultural companies that have developed under pressure from the market and government for many years to the companies they are today. Mr. Chairman. A great deal has already been said by colleagues. That's what happens when you're the last one in the speakers' order. However, I still have a number of questions which I would like to put to the Minister and a number of points which I would like to address. That is about the goals of the law, the means to achieve them and the perspective that we offer. First of all, the targets. In summary, the cabinet bill is a framework law, setting the reduction target for 2030. This represents 26% less emissions or an additional deposition reduction of 110 mole per hectare, on top of the autonomous development. This should lead to the achievement of the result-based environmental value for reducing nitrogen deposition in sensitive Natura 200 sites, which is also included in the legislative proposal, namely 50% of the area not above the critical deposition value. This includes a programme of nitrogen reduction and improvement of nature, with around €2 billion focused on nitrogen reduction and €3 billion aimed at restoring nitrogen overloaded nature. I would add: 1 billion for housing. Last but not least, a much-needed partial exemption for construction is included. Mr. Chairman. A sturdy construction, but I'm still a little worried. In order to get half of the Natura 2000 area back in order by 2030, we will now have to start with nature restoration and nitrogen reduction and we will have to monitor whether we are on course in the interim. An intermediate goal helps with that. That is why, together with my colleague Mr Van Otterloo, he has also just announced an amendment to the directive on the mandatory environmental value of at least 40% by 2025. 40% of the Natura 2000 area should no longer exceed the critical deposition value by 2025. As far as our group is concerned, this is ambitious, but it is also very realistic and necessary. That's step one. Step two is the target already set for 2030. Step three is an objective that goes beyond 2030. After all, as with the Climate Agreement, 2030 is just an intermediate position. The Christian Union Group therefore welcomes the amendment tabled by my colleagues Futselaar and De Groot to set the emission reduction target at 50% in 2035, which corresponds to 74% of the Natura 2000 area that has to meet the critical deposition value. A strong ambition, but also necessary. A new package of resource and recovery measures will logically have to be adopted on the road to 2030. This is also laid down in the law until the year 2028. That is also mentioned in the amendment. Mr. Chairman. Setting targets is one, but taking measures is two. That's the strength of this bill. It includes a package of measures that is unprecedented: EUR 2 billion of nitrogen-reducing measures, EUR 1 billion for construction, including electrification, and nearly 3 billion for nature restoration and expansion with, for example, forest of 55,000 football fields. In the meantime, the first agreements with provinces have been made. The Minister also informed the Chamber about this. We could read about an increase in water levels, higher payments for nature management, for example for farmers, and about planting trees. I have read that there is an amendment from the SP and D66 groups on the planning of areas by the provinces, within two years of the entry into force of this bill. My group thinks this is a good amendment, because the implementation of the regional plans is a joint task for the Empire and the provinces. It is good to work with each other on these area plans and to convince each other that there is momentum in the realization. My question is, however, how will nature restoration efforts be transferred to the specific Natura 2000 sites? Will the focus be on areas that are highly likely to return to critical deposition values in the short term? Or does money and commitment also go to areas where the critical deposition value will remain out of sight for a long time, such as nearby in our beautiful dune areas? Here in the dunes of The Hague we are sometimes up to 300% above the critical deposition value. If you walk around it, you can see it, for example by the grassing. Here too, or perhaps just here, we need to restore nature. Mr. Chairman. From natural recovery to nitrogen reduction. For my group, it is clear that all sectors with nitrogen emissions will have to contribute to this reduction: from less flying to electric driving, from cleaner construction machines to shore power for larger ships and from less deep pressure on the accelerator to fewer cattle. For there too we cannot escape: fewer cattle in this livestock-proof country. That is why my group welcomes the strong commitment of this cabinet to voluntary buy-back of farms. Voluntaryly, and at the same time, of course, so that it is effective and especially the peak loaders disappear. This requires an active government: kitchen table calls, a sacrifice you can't refuse. In this context, attention has already been drawn to the commitment of the province of Gelderland. Here are opportunities to make quick arrangements, with this province but also with some other provinces. My group is considering a motion on this point, because we think it is important that we seize these opportunities. We ask the Minister to come alongside us and to support these provinces that want to go a step further, with human resources and, if necessary, with financial resources. Mr. Chairman. With only buying up farms that are open to that, we are not yet there. The nitrogen yield should serve nature and the PAS detectors, and the non-detectors should regain perspective. These are family businesses which, as a result of the Council of State's statement last year, saw their prospects crumble in one go. And even though they could get on with their business operations, banks are still shy of requests for funding, so de facto many companies are still locked up. I very much hope that today's legal process and the adoption of this bill and a number of amendments will help to provide them with clarity and perspective quickly. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a care at voluntary buy-out. A risk of this is price drive, which makes it even more expensive for the keepers to extend land purchases in dairy farming, for example. How does the Minister view this risk? After all, the amount of land in our country is a given, while the amount of money that swarms around this land is only increasing. In the case of voluntary buy-backs, not only stand-ups become available, but often also land. It would be nice if this land were to be available for either the intensification of livestock farms, or the extension of nature, or housing, or the use of land-based yields for housing to allow the intensification and expansion of natural areas. On this point, too, my group is considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. That's where the word "house building" has fallen. Besides perspective for nature and perspective for PAS detectors, perspective on a home is the big profit of this bill. The partial exemption from the nature permit requirement for the construction sector helps. Buying up stables and providing space for, for example, the construction of senior homes helps. Making money available for example to buy out nitrogen-bearing activities in cities for housing purposes helps. All this help is much needed, because the housing shortage is enormous. Those who buy or rent an affordable property at this time are happier than those who manage to get the winning lottery ticket. This is not the way it should be in a country where the promotion of adequate housing is even enshrined in the Constitution. At the same time, not all housing problems have been solved with this bill. In this city, for example, 4,000 homes per year have to be built. In the southern Randstad alone, these are 100,000 homes until 2025. Those are huge numbers. Then I haven't talked about Arnhem-Nijmegen and the Zaanstreek. They came to this debate today, as I recall. For the next few years there will be development and building space again, but what's that like in four or five years? Do measures such as shifting shipping routes, shore power and nitrogen banks provide sufficient relief? Mr. Chairman. Not only from areas with large housing assignments reached us many emails with concerns and questions, but also from, for example, the province of Flevoland. Does the present package of measures, for example, help to get projects such as the maritime service port in Urk off the ground? From e-mails like this speaks a great commitment and concern of entrepreneurs. They are often family farms with a young successor, who wants to work, ground-based and well, but whose future prospects are so uncertain. Another concern that struck me concerns the possible adverse effects of external salading and the opportunities it offers for powerful market players to buy up farms and strip their nitrogen duties, while leaving a wasteland behind. Guarantees have been built in by the Minister and the provinces, but is that really enough? I do not want, for example, Schiphol, Rijkswaterstaat or a private party to safeguard its interests and that agriculture and the rural area should pay the price. How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Machiavelli already told us: there is nothing more difficult to tackle and more dangerous to implement, nothing more uncertain about success, than taking the lead in the introduction of a new order of business. This minister knows this. It has put its head above the ground and put forward proposals for a new order of business, with a vision of circular agriculture, with unprecedented investment in restoring the nature overloaded by excessive nitrogen emissions in our country, with a law and a package of measures ensuring a new balance between economics and ecology. The Minister of LNV took the lead. That is a difficult and uncertain path, but also a necessary path, with perspective appropriate to our mission to handle this earth carefully and respectfully, God's creation, our common home. Mr. Chairman. With those words, I want to finish the first term. I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u354	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 7:45 p.m. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. The suspension for the answer is then combined with the dinner break, but you may indicate it if you need longer. No? Otherwise, I'll get a signal if I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u355	Let's get back to the meeting. The next item is the first term of office. It is about Room 35600, the Amendment of the Nature Protection Act and the Environment Act (Nuclearness Reduction and Natural Improvement). Members have already asked a lot of questions. We have agreed that the members of the Minister's first term have four interruptions. We always do this in threes: two comments and a very brief remark. I'm gonna hold you to that. The Minister has had many questions, so I would like to give her the opportunity to provide the Chamber with an answer. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u356	Very good, Mr. Chairman. Most members have already recalled it: it's a long day, it's a long treatment but it's also a bill of great importance and with a lot of impact. That is why we are discussing with each other what we are doing here, what this bill means and how we are going to break the deadlock that we are currently in. That has also been mentioned a number of times. After the judge's ruling on the validity of the PAS, quite a lot has happened. Authorisation has come to a virtual standstill. This also has a major impact on a number of sectors, including housing. This is also about a social task that we all have, namely ensuring that there are sufficient housing in this country. But it also has a direct impact on the companies behind it; companies that have employees, who also don't know if they have enough orders to go on. But also important is that we just have to get our nature goals. Mr. Chairman. There has been a great deal of debate over the past few years about how we are going to get out of this impasse. What we are discussing today is the cabinet proposal: the law that aims to ensure that we actually improve nature on the one hand, and on the other hand, the economy is restarted, and in particular a number of activities underneath it. Nor will I hide the fact that it has been a quest of the cabinet, not only a quest with social parties but also a quest to find the breadth of support in this Chamber. Let me say first of all that I am very grateful to a number of parties for having had the courage to enter into these talks with us. Mr Futselaar and Mr Bishop also said it: compromise means you never get what you want. But these parties, as well as Mr Van Otterloo of 50PLUS, are considering: we all have a common responsibility here to ensure that we improve that nature again, that economic activities can take place again, and that we can do a number of major social tasks again. That's not easy, I know. At the same time, I also think that perhaps that is why we are here: not only to go the way of the least resistance but also to really see what we can contribute and what is important now. I see that these parties have dared to say that step. Again, I am very grateful to them for that. It also means that these parties have put something on the table. I understand that very well. I think we will come to that when we answer the questions. Those are questions like what it means and what extra things have been laid down. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go over the case by block. I think it would be a good idea to mention how we are going to build the debate. I shall confine myself to not too long introductions, because it is already late and we still have a lot to deal with. First of all, the ambition in general and also the solidity of the legislative proposal. Quite a few questions have been asked about that. Those are really key questions in this debate. That's the first block. The second block is nature. The third block is agriculture. That's a hell of a block. That's where I put the detectors. The fourth block is construction, and slightly wider also the area for economic development. And then I have a fifth block of other. This concerns, for example, monitoring, stakeholders and mobility. So that's some other questions that haven't been answered. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the question about the ambition of the legislative proposal. I am free to increase the ambition set out in the amendment from a number of parties and also the legal sustainability of the package as a whole. To start with that last one. I think Mr Wassenberg is right, but Mrs Ouwehand actually had the perhaps most intrusive contribution on that point. She asked me, "This is almost a question of conscience." How will I ever return to the reconstructions that will be made about this bill? I don't know if they'll be made, but I hope they'll be made when the law still stands and just does its job, because most reconstructions were written at the time a law died. I think it would be a good idea to name a number of things very specific which are different in this law than in the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. I think that's what the debate is about. What does this law look like and what makes it solid compared to previous situations? Firstly, the environmental value is included at law level. It's in the law. The environmental value is also a result obligation. The cabinet sets itself the goal of achieving that result on the left or right. This result obligation also includes a whole package of measures, which is validated by calculations by renowned institutes such as PBL and RIVM. The achievement of these measures will also enable us to meet the result obligations. In addition, the space created by reducing nitrogen elsewhere can only be spent if it is realized. I will come to the point of partial exemption for construction. That is the starting point of this law. So it can only be done once it has been realized. If we fail to reach the package of measures, we will continue to monitor how we stand. We're gonna recalibrate the moment it turns out we're not gonna make it to what we've been aiming for. This means that every year we will see what the nitrogen deposition is like in the nature reserves. We are going to look every two years to see if the measures included in the package are actually doing what they need to do. We are going to look at the conservation status of the Natura 2000 sites, which is the system of European obligations every six years. We're on top of it and we're gonna see where we stand. We also have a duty to adjust if it turns out that a measure does not do what it has to do. Then I come specifically to the issue of exemption from construction. That's how you want to see if you can get the construction going. At the same time, we also knew that you may not be able to fully meet the requirement if something is only spent after something has been achieved in that particular Natura 2000 area. We submitted that to the Council of State. Our reasoning was that this is a small temporary deposition during the construction phase, which also imposes an equal burden on the whole of the Netherlands. The Council of State says, "That's right." We had pinned this on one measure to make the construction work cleaner. The Council of State says, "Just take that into the overall package to compensate." We have done so by making a further EUR 1 billion available for the greening of the construction measures and thus ensuring that the construction is sustainable and that we have less nitrogen deposition. This whole package is really a different situation from the one we had with the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen and we believe that this is a guarantee of legal sustainability. Then questions have been asked about the ambitions in this regard. Mrs Bromet says: what is the government's objective of reducing emissions based on? She also called it the cow trade in the coalition. That is a bit difficult, because we are now assuming a legislative proposal that will be amended shortly. I'll be right back to talk about that. Let me address the 2030 target, because it is still in the law. The cabinet has chosen 50% of the Natura 2000 hectares under the KDW. If you convert that into emissions, that's 26% emission reduction. We have looked at what measures are all possible to ensure that we are actually going to reduce that nitrogen. As mentioned above, the PBL and RIVM have put a stamp on the package of measures. So that's what they were able to determine. So that's what they were able to define. We have looked at what is feasible and what the costs are, because of course this package also has a lot of costs. In doing so, as I have also written in the explanatory statement and in the answers to the questions, I have also looked at the strength of the sectors. On the basis of these calculations with the package of measures, we have reached those 50% hectares below the KDW. Again, that is an emission reduction of 26%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u357	An interruption by Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u358	I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is true that this is ultimately just a political choice. Whether something is feasible has to do with how much money you make available. Whether the sector or certain companies can experience it is also a matter of how far you want to go in intervening in their business operations. In the end, it is simply a political choice. Perhaps that is why I used the words 'cow trade in the coalition'. I know that there are different interests and that there are also certain options that have not been included in the package passed on by the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u359	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u360	Does the Minister admit that it is also a political choice and not a legal one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u361	In the end, everything we do here is a political choice. That's also what I'm saying, not to use a you-bowl, the percentage Mrs Bromet uses in her own bill. That can also be higher; that can also be lower. We did see if we could actually make what we promise. In other words, is the measures we are proposing really achieving any results? We even built in some sort of buffer there. If it doesn't work out, we don't get into any trouble right away, but we still have a buffer in the package. We're not gonna sit on the edge right now. We are simply ensuring that the measures can actually be implemented. If that is not the case, there must be another measure with the same result. Can you choose to take all kinds of activities out of an area? Yeah, you can. But we didn't choose that. We have really looked at what measures can be implemented in that period. Some measures, I admit, need a little more time before they do something. Let me mention the innovations in the barn systems. We have now opened up a subsidy scheme to get those innovations going, but that will take some time. This also plays a role in setting the target in 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u362	I object to the Minister pretending that GroenLinks' bill is some kind of random percentage in any year. Firstly, what we have presented is based on studies by the WUR, on the results of the Remkes Committee. Second of all, I forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u363	That's not my purpose. Again, I didn't want to do a you-bake. That's what I said. I don't mean to. The question of whether or not a percentage is critical is relevant, but perhaps the question of how to achieve that percentage is even more relevant. The Chamber also had this discussion with Mrs Bromet this morning. The Chamber has asked: how do you want to achieve that percentage? That is what the discussion really is about. We have not had the most complicated discussions about percentages. We have had the most complicated discussions about what measures you are taking to achieve that percentage. That's a political choice. I admit that. But I also see that Mrs Bromet's bill does not make the start of a choice. That's the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u364	I do foresee a major problem, because, after negotiations with parties here in the Chamber, the cabinet has increased its ambitions, but the measures have not changed. So what the Minister is blaming me for now, she can blame herself. She says, "We've built in space." Well, that space can be refurbished immediately today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u365	I shall come right back to that, because I have also been asked the following question: why can you set a target in 2035, but not yet? I have just explained that we wanted the package of measures that we have set out below to be validated by the renowned institutes. There's a lot of uncertainty in that. After 2030, these uncertainties are so great that they say: you cannot estimate with good decency what the measures will yield after 2030. Does this mean that there will be no return after 2030? No, certain measures continue. That too is a political choice. I have heard here and there that there are also some measures that the Chamber says you could carry through. There are also other factors, such as what the Climate Agreement does after 2030. So in 2028 you have to establish a new program, aimed at 2035. That was already in the package, but we confirmed it here again. We're not done in 2030. Right then you can say: what is needed to achieve the goal? At the same time, you can pass it on. I think this is a relevant point, because many questions are based on this. This is why we can fill in something until 2030. This is also why we cannot at present impose the measures with good decency until 2035, namely because we do not yet know exactly what they will yield. However, it is an obligation to do so in view of the outcome. This also answers Mrs Bromet's questions about the targets after 2030. Then there was an interruption debate between Mrs Bromet and Mr Futselaar about a legal check on the amendments to the documents. 17 and 18. That's what was asked. That question was passed on to me. I am going to give my opinion on all the amendments, including those two. In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 17 is specifically about taking into account the socio-economic requirements of the package of measures that we include in the programme. That is something the Birds and Habitats Directives allow. It is not so much a question of taking this into account in the protection of Natura 2000, but of how you do it. So the measures you are taking are actually the political weighting, as Mrs Bromet called it. The amendment in part No. 18 provides for a procedure which I must go through if the nitrogen tax from abroad does not meet the target for a certain nature value in a given area, despite all the measures we take. So we have already done a lot in that area, but in the end we do not come under the KDW, because the depositions come from abroad. I believe that the amendment that I am going to talk to neighbouring countries and Brussels is asking for. So it's a process determination. A trial clause is not against the law. I can just go have those conversations. As I estimate it now, there is no legal stinger or clamp there. We have also been asked whether we have already spoken to Member States. I spoke with the Belgian Minister for the Environment about the approach to nitrogen in Belgium... I mean, in Flanders. Excuse me, I have to say it very precisely. Yeah, that's tight. I talked about the approach in Flanders. They are now also making an approach to reducing nitrogen. The Minister specifically asked how we do it, because we learn from each other. Next Monday I will have a conversation with my German colleagues from the Länder who are bordering the Netherlands. Then this issue will also be discussed. So I'm actively conducting those conversations. Mrs. Ouwehand asked how I think I'll be remembered in the reconstructions. I just answered that question. Let's see. Those questions, too. Mr Moorlag also asked whether the proposal was not legally feasible. I've just indicated the differences from the PAS. A specific question from Mr Moorlag, which is also a little broader. Is setting the building threshold legally sustainable? This really concerns emissions of a temporary nature during the construction phase. So it's not something that keeps going on and on. There is therefore no permanent taxation in any area. These emissions continue to be largely covered in the blanket, and that is why the overall package of measures will enable us to compensate for this. We have also put a billion dollars in it to mitigate it further. That reasoning was a reasoning which the Council of State could also follow, and in this respect we are confident that this point will be legally sustainable. Mr. Chairman. This was the point of ambition and legal sustainability. I now move on to the point of nature. You could say that's what we're all doing for. The essence of the Council of State's statement is, of course, that we must do more to protect our nature. I am always saying that this is also the best way to ensure that economic activities can be resumed. Mrs Bromet asks when Dutch nature has been restored as a result of the present law. We are now dealing with one law, namely the nitrogen law, but Mrs Bromet knows that the whole package is wider. This is seen on the one hand by nature measures. These are the nature measures that we have also laid down in the Nature Programme. We have done this together with the provinces, and we have allocated 3 billion for this. I briefed your Chamber this week on how to handle that programme. We have come to an agreement on this and we can therefore also start! In addition, we have an approach to reduce nitrogen deposition. That's the bill before us. The third track is the so-called nature-inclusive route. That brings me right to Mr Futselaar's questions. He asked: what do we do about nature outside the Natura 2000 sites? This programme is not just about Natura 2000, because it is wider. In our society, we need to look much wider at how we can combine all functions, including with nature. It's about building including nature. It's about nature-inclusive agriculture. That's really about everything where you develop functions, because you'll have to think about everything about how to combine it with nature. That trail is also being worked out. It's a little bigger, because we really need to look at that a little bit wider. But these are all facets that have to contribute to improving and strengthening our nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u366	But the question wasn't what the minister was going to do, because I know that. The question was when nature would be restored.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u367	I was just there. This was my run-up, but perhaps it is too long a run-up to Mrs Bromet's question. I'm really gonna serve her, because I'm gonna try to answer all of her questions, Mr. Chairman. My next sentence would have been: recovery is not only dependent on this law and not just on nitrogen. That is certainly important, but it is mainly dependent on all the nature measures we are going to take. It's a combination. Recovery will also go faster for one type of nature than for the other type of nature. This has been said here by a number of Members. Local conditions are different and therefore the pace of recovery will also vary by area. If Mrs Bromet asks, "When will nature be restored?', Then I can't give her a year or a moment for that. Because of all the variables that apply to them, it is difficult to put it in such a general way. But we must continue to work to improve that nature and that is what this law does and that is what the Nature Programme does and that is what the whole package of nature-inclusive possibilities does. Everything is necessary to make sure that nature recovers and that is what we are committed to. Mr Geurts asks if I can explain why reducing nitrogen is now effective and has a positive effect on nature. He says: so much has already been reduced and why hasn't that had an effect on nature anyway? It is true that in certain cases nitrogen has actually been reduced. He also said, I believe, that the nitrogen deposition in agriculture has been reduced over the past few decades. I must admit, however, that the agricultural deposition has not decreased since the year 2015/2016. This has to do not only with agriculture, but also with the fact that the PAS programme was created at that time. As a result, licences were issued before compensation was actually paid. That is also why the Council of State or the Administrative Court has finally said: this is not sustainable. So yes, a lot has been reduced, but at some point it has stabilised and even gone up a little bit. Why doesn't this nitrogen reduction directly improve nature? That's because nitrogen accumulates in nature. It's a kind of bath that fills you up and overflows at some point. Then you have to make sure that not only the tap is closed, but that the bath is also less full. That is what this package of measures is also aimed at. Mrs Bromet said, but I believe that Mrs Ouwehand also pointed this out: at the moment, the Natura 2000 sites are still declining, and that goes against the Birds and Habitats Directives. If I can respond to that. The legislative proposal, like the implementation of remedial measures, aims at preventing deterioration. It just wants to make sure the bath doesn't get any fuller, I'll just call it. In addition, we are going to make the bath army again, to make the recovery increase. We have ecological analyses that we need to include in order to establish that. These analyses are available, but we are going to look at the extent to which these conclusions are still current by area. Where there is already a deterioration, the measures must be effective as soon as possible. The accelerated nature restoration contributes to this, but the more important it is to adopt this bill, because then we can ensure that the crane does not continue to run and that the nitrogen is reduced. Mr Futselaar also asked a number of questions about nature. What are we going to do about areas outside Natura 2000 sites? I just said that. Outside Natura 2000 sites there is sometimes also nitrogen-sensitive nature, but they are not as strictly protected as the Natura 2000 sites. That is a real difference. However, nitrogen deposition is also taken into account in the management of such nature, for example in the Netherlands Nature Network. The source measures with which we achieve nitrogen reduction apply to the whole country. That's the blanket. These measures therefore also benefit natural areas which are not necessarily Natura 2000 sites, but which are sensitive to nitrogen. So we're actually gonna take that right away. As I said, we have not only Natura 2000 sites in the Nature Programme, but also nature-inclusive society. Both contribute to this. Then Mr Futselaar asks: should we now focus only on recovery measures? Is that a sustainable solution or is it a waste of money? Restoration measures alone are indeed not a sustainable solution. They may be necessary to ensure that you can make a good start with a nature reserve. But you can't keep doing that forever, and it's not Columbus' egg. That is why I choose in the Nature Implementation Programme, which I have just sent to your Chamber, along with the provinces for measures to strengthen the ecological system. In this way you come to sturdy areas, which are also better able to take a hit. So you not only make sure they recover, but also see what it takes to make them more resilient. That's what you need to take action for. That's part of the program. That way you can actually work on sustainable recovery. Mr Geurts and some other members specifically asked which areas are to be identified which should be covered by that 50% of the critical deposition value. Which areas are covered and which are not? I'll turn it around, because that's the system we use. We have the source measures. These source measures affect certain Natura 2000 sites in a certain way. We have to calculate exactly how that works per Natura 2000 area. It's a little easier on one thing than on the other. I think it has already been recalled here that we have a little less source measures in the back pocket at the South-Holland coast than in areas in the middle of the country. In addition, of course, you have a number of source measures that depend very specifically on the choice you make. I should like to mention specifically the purchase of certain companies. It is, of course, up to the provinces to see where they can do it most effectively and wherever they will do it. So it is actually a combination of where the source measures amount to a Natura 2000 site and the choices that are also made within the province. Based on these calculations, you can finally determine where the 50% KDW is realized. Mr De Groot asked for Article 2, and so did Mr Futselaar, Article 2 (3) of the Habitats Directive, in relation to Article 6 (2) of the Habitats Directive. I'll just mention it for all the people who don't have the law completely sharp, which I can imagine very well. One concerns the socio-economic and cultural factors that can be taken into account and the other is the obligation not to deteriorate these areas. How do they relate to each other? Article 2 (3) therefore concerns socio-economic and cultural factors. This is not seen in the Natura 2000 sites, but in the package of measures that you take to ensure that you protect those natural areas. You have a choice. So when choosing what we have done, the programme and the measures contained in it, you can take into account the socio-economic and cultural factors. The fact that this nature must then be improved by means of measures is at the heart of the matter. That's not a turnoff that can be made on it or anything like that. So they both see different things, so to speak. Mr De Groot looks at me frowning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u368	We're gonna find out what kind of question he has. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u369	You submit that package to comply with Article 6 (2) in order to prevent that deterioration. So in the end, it does refer to that article. You can quite rightly say that you simply have to prevent, apart from that Article 3 (2) that nature is deteriorating. It's a little technical, but it's relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u370	There is no doubt that work must be done to prevent deterioration. In the way you do that, in what measures you do that, you can also count on the socio-economic conditions. There are several ways you can do that. You can put the first one in there. It's very practical. We take it into account in the time frame, the speed with which we take certain measures. That was just the little debate I had with Mrs Bromet. There is no doubt about the need to work on this recovery. There is no doubt that there should be no deterioration, no matter what we do. Mr De Groot asks whether I am going to visit every Natura 2000 site every year, not myself, but the people in the programme, I think, and carry out visual inspections there. The report Nature quality is based, among other things, on existing inventories of the state of nature in Natura 2000 sites. Part of this is reported on observable changes in nature, for example through field visits. This is done systematically, but it is not necessary for every area every year. We're really looking at where that's really necessary. Part of these noticeable changes are therefore the field visits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u371	In recent years, D66 has always asked to do that monitoring really well, because then you also know if your measures are effective. That's what everyone wants to know. Now there's extra reason for that. I also know that Naturalis is doing an investigation and will see if you need to change that. Is the Minister prepared to look in any case with all these organisations, the NEM and so on, at least to see what is needed to strengthen monitoring in relation to the nitrogen law that is in place and to inform the Chamber about it? Because in the explanatory statement, the word is very common, but I do not really see what is going to happen with regard to this monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u372	There is, of course, already a lot of monitoring going on right now. The NEM is, I think, a good example of how that happens. What is observed there, of course, can be used in the reports. It's not like I'm gonna have to send a few more people into the area myself. I can just take advantage of the observations that are taking place there. If you notice something special that you think needs to be looked at a little more structuralally, you will also take this into account in the field visits in your monitoring. But if it is just very consistent, clear and clear what comes out of other reports and observations, then we should also be able to use them and not necessarily lead to a visual inspection every year under this law. So we're actually making smart use of what's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u373	A brief closing remark, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u374	I think it would be a good idea to use that smartly, but we have seen that with the breakdown of nature policy after 2013, the monitoring has also got quite a touch. There is also a discussion about measuring nitrogen deposition. Satellites could also play a role in this. So I would ask the Minister to come back to this again. Smart use of...? Yes. But is it enough? Does she want to come back to this, even if it's just for the overview? How is it now organized in relation to nitrogen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u375	I will make the following promise. I'm gonna talk to the organizations that are doing that monitoring right now. There are also a lot of them and they are often the voluntary organisations. These are really good initiatives. Give me the freedom to decide exactly how I'm gonna do that, and let me have a little chat with them. How can we use the monitoring they do? Then where are the gaps or something? And what does that even mean? That seems to me to be a more effective way than per se monitoring every year if it happens somewhere else. That's what I'm saying. I will at least inform the House of this before the elections. I'll do that somewhere early next year; let me put it this way. Mr De Groot asked if you should not limit the nature permit to ten years. Technically, the law already offers that possibility. That is an assessment which the competent authority makes on a case-by-case basis. This also depends on the nature and duration of the activity, the investments involved, etc. That is all taken into account. So it's not like that's some kind of generic provision. The competent authority estimates what is appropriate at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u376	I notice the latter and I'm starting to worry about it, because this is going to create uncertainty. Is that competent authority going to withdraw a permit after 10 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u377	They must indicate that in advance, at the time the permit is granted. It could be said that in the light of the activity that is being carried out here, we can only grant a limited licence. That's what they do from the beginning. It's not like they're going to do that now, and I'm not saying that that's happening generically now. The question was whether that possibility should not be given, and the answer is that that possibility already exists technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u378	Where does the law say that possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u379	I will forward the exact article to you in the second term. Let me say: it is already existing practice. But perhaps Mr Geurts now thinks, for example, that all authorisations for farms are now granted only for a certain period of time? It seems to me, in the context of the investments to be made and given the duration of the activity, that it is not obvious that a competent authority will do so. The question was: Is it possible? Technically, the law offers that opportunity. However, you should not report that again afterwards, but that must be very clear at the start of the authorisation and indicated by the competent authority. And again, this kind of activity will not take ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u380	I'd like to receive the number of that article. On the contrary, I did not want to give an example from agriculture. What if a big industrialist in the west of the country processing steel makes an investment? Will there be such a permit: after ten years we will see again whether you can continue to produce? That way that investment will never come for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u381	That is why I say that this is a trade-off that the competent authority makes, including, for example, on the basis of an investment that has to be made, or on the basis of the nature of the activity. For example, if an activity takes a short time in advance when a permit has to be applied for, then the competent authority may say: then I will also grant the permit for the duration of that period. That's the situation. It is not a call for temporary permits. I will mention the article, but I have to bring that up in the second term. Mr Harbers and the question about the social costs of maintaining Natura 2000. How do I look at that? Do I look together with the provinces at what is still possible with regard to Natura 2000 sites? The research we have done, what is needed to achieve the conservation objectives? There is no reason to delete Natura 2000 targets or anything like that. It does map where bottlenecks are and where there are opportunities for nature recovery. This is also useful for the programme we are building with the provinces: the Nature Programme. Nor is it the case that there are economic benefits that you can quantify compared to the investments needed to meet the requirements of the Birds and Habitats Directives. They are the requirements that you have to meet and that is why we also invest in nature and in nature recovery. This also makes other activities possible. Some measures may be at odds with the certainty of the outcome. That is also the conversation I am having with the European Commission. If we continue to take certain measures and have no effect, how long will I have to go on doing so? Then what's the point? We are already working with the provinces to update the Natura 2000 targets. In doing so, we also look at the use of opportunities if it is possible to adapt the targets..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is really based on an area-oriented approach. That is why it is being considered. Then we can also see what is needed, for example, to link nitrogen-limiting measures to them, so that you can have a maximum effect. Mr Geurts asked for a more participatory process in the field of nature, as he calls it. That's about nitrogen-sensitive nature from private owners. There has been a lot of discussion about this, as I have heard. How come these people didn't know that at all? Why has there been no participation and so on? I recognize that concern of Mr Geurts. I see that there has been a lot of commotion about that. How do you prevent it from being mistakenly concluded that somewhere is nitrogen-sensitive nature? How can landowners be informed of this or at least involved in that discussion? That signal was also picked up by the provincial directors. They have also seen that things have happened there. The delegates will decide a common line on this in the short term, so they have let me know. I have told them that I will look very kindly at this. After all, it is good to clarify this. As far as companies are concerned, I would like to make the following very clear. There can be no nitrogen-sensitive nature in regular agricultural use. That's just as good to establish. I think the cards will be adapted to that, because that really is a disclaimer. Mr Bishop also had a question about this. He called it the mapping. The provinces therefore look again at the process and where it can be done better. I just outlined that. With regard to the cards: if the display is not correct, the cards will have to be corrected. That'll be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u382	There is a question for you from Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u383	That sounds obvious, but what exactly is the procedure? Does this nitrogen-sensitive nature, which the persons concerned or owners were not aware of, in principle dispose of? Is there going back to the original surfaces? Will it then be considered whether, after or in consultation, an enlargement could take place, or is it the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u384	No, the nitrogen-sensitive nature in general is often mapped by the competent authorities, which in this case are often the provinces of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In it you can see exactly where the nitrogen-sensitive nature is. It should also be included so that you do not have to take everything into account. It is precisely by including it in it that very specifically becomes visible where that nature is and what there is to protect. If these maps are not a correct representation of the actual situation, then they will have to be corrected. I understand the county boards are looking at that one more time. They're looking at that process, too. Whether that means that they are now going all the way back to the situation before and being re-signed, I do not know. They have said that they are going to look again closely at what has happened there, where there is uncertainty and what there are questions about. As a result, they look at whether it is rightly or unjustly carved in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u385	Yeah, no, I can imagine that process. I have a follow-up question. I think I heard the Minister say in a minor way that this nitrogen-sensitive nature is never accompanied by regular agricultural use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u386	In the case of regular agricultural use, there can be no nitrogen-sensitive nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u387	But what is the priority: there is regular agricultural use and so it cannot become a nitrogen-sensitive nature, or we as a competent authority turn it into a nitrogen-sensitive nature and so there can be no regular agricultural use anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u388	No, I got it backwards. If there is regular agricultural use, then there can be no nitrogen-sensitive nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u389	A very brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u390	But then it is all the more important that the owners are well informed and that a proper check is made on whether there is regular agricultural use?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u391	Sure. If that is the case, then I suppose those cards will be adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u392	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u393	Then Mrs Dik-Faber also has some questions about nature. She asks how the nature restoration efforts will be translated into the specific Natura 2000 sites: are we going to realize the easy things first and then the rest? I've just explained that we're actually turning it around. We're just looking at where the source measures are going. Next, it is also up to the provinces to determine what is still going on with the source measures such as the targeted buy-in, in which areas it will take place and what that means for such an area. How exactly that works out for a particular area will therefore depend on a combination of factors, I think. Then she also asks how I see the relationship between the legal objectives and the use of resources in relation to the target range, in the knowledge that a number of Natura 2000 sites are far above the KDW in terms of deposition. With the structural approach measures, the deposition will decrease in any case in all Natura 2000 sites. The blanket down means profit for everyone, but it is true that some of the areas will have to deal with a significant overrun of the KDW for the time being. So you look at the area-oriented approach. What source and nature measures are possible there and how can they be used effectively to better achieve the nature objectives there? This commitment will also prevent the deterioration of the difficult areas. Let me put it this way. So that's gonna be easier in one place than on the other. That is indeed the reality. In some areas, the task is really much greater. In order to avoid any deterioration, therefore, some more area-specific measures will really be needed than in an area where the KDW has already almost been implemented. There's a difference. That's right. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered all the questions relating to nature. I also believe that it is. Then I come to agriculture. Quite a few questions have been asked about this. This is a little longer, Mr. Chairman. Let's get a win warning in advance. Mrs Bromet said that in the whole package of measures there are all things that need to be implemented by farmers and asked whether these measures will all be mandatory or whether it will only be a little voluntary in the future and we will see where we come from. She talks about the cattle feed, grazing, dilution of manure. I'm saying it a little bit in my words. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what we need to achieve. There's a lot of ways to do that. The measures mentioned in the package are measures that have also come from the sector itself. If we are going to apply it, then it has real potential and profit; we know that and so does the PBL. Since they are also from the sector, I assume that the sector will use them. By the way, we are already talking to the sector about how to do that and what it needs to do. We have also made money available for this in this package. Again, the result is paramount. That has to be made to the left or to the right. If the biennial monitoring shows that we are far from doing so or that certain measures are not effective, then of course you will go back to what is needed to achieve the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u394	Let me give you an example. This summer I thought the agricultural sector did not like the feed measure at all. Is this food measure now being embraced by the agricultural sector? Is that what the Minister is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u395	We are talking about a total. There is a task for agriculture. There are ways to make it. A mix of measures is also possible. There are also measures which are easier to apply to one than to the other. If you don't have enough land, you might want to go pasture, but you should start organizing it first. So there are also differences per company. But these are possibilities to achieve that reduction. Again, if it can't go left, then it has to go right. Then after two years, we have to see if there's another way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u396	I specifically asked about the feed measure. I can't get a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u397	That's what the conversations are about now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u398	Oh, that's what the conversations are about. We do not know whether the sector likes it, but the Minister actually says: if it is not voluntary, then we are going to have to commit it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u399	Well, then other measures can be taken to achieve the same result. Ultimately, the result is central. The measures we have now taken are measures that would enable you to achieve that result. This is also recognised by the agricultural sector in the points that have just been mentioned. But if that does not happen, then we will determine it after two years and then it will have to be done in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u400	A brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u401	I think it's confusing. We keep hearing the Minister say: we have a package of measures that has been passed on by the PBL. There's a feed measure in there. When I ask about the feed measure, the Minister says: well, we can also take other measures if they do not make it. I am afraid that this is not going to lead to the successes that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u402	That's not a question. I think that's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u403	I'm worried about it, too. If the measures do not have sufficient effect, this will affect housing and will affect economic development. The minister says we need a plan B. But to my liking, there will have to be more obligation. There are such simple instruments for picking up. Take, for example, the skimming of phosphate rights. I have tabled an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u404	I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u405	It doesn't cost anything to increase the percentage of skimming in the sale of phosphate rights. It is annoying for farmers whose phosphate rights are now worth tons, but they have been granted those phosphate rights for free. You could have a quick effect with that. It is unacceptable that housing and economic development should be put at risk by non-binding measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u406	It's not gonna happen. We have said: they have the chance to do it this way. If it doesn't work out later, we're gonna have to do it another way. But the result must be achieved. That's for sure. Mr Moorlag says: you can easily skim off those extra phosphate rights. We also have something like a phosphate bank to fill. I think Mr Moorlag is very much in favour of this. Young land-based farmers can get phosphate rights out of that, just to give perspective to those young farmers. At the time when Mr Moorlag is going to skim those rights, there is no room to fill that phosphate bank, at the expense of young land-based farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u407	But the toughest thing must be the hardest thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u408	But there are still several...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u409	Let Mr Moorlag finish his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u410	Look, housing's been shut down in important places. The municipalities continue to strongly point to this, even after the legislative proposal. Others point to that, too. The construction sector points this out. Economic development is largely at a standstill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u411	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u412	My question is: can you do enough with measures that you say you expect to have effect? We've seen that before with that feed measure. By the way, I thought that was right of those farmers. They said, "Let's not let that get down our throats." So how can you be confident that that nitrogen space is actually being realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u413	By simply making agreements, which we are now working on, with this sector, knowing that if we find that it is not being achieved after two years, other measures will have to be taken to achieve that result. People know that, too. It is therefore a good thing that we are in line with the measures that the sector itself proposes. They say: here we really see opportunities to achieve that. We have even made funds available to support them in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u414	A brief final remark. It strikes me that'short closing remarks' are not interpreted by everyone as'short closing remarks'. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u415	I do not think that there is enough urgency in this, when you look at the needs of the housing market and when you look at the problems that the economy has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u416	The best way to get housing back on track is to adopt this bill, because this includes an exemption for construction. I'm going a little random through the order of the various speakers, so if you're thinking, "hey, it was my turn before?" Then you can come back later in the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u417	Just like the sign at the GP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u418	Mr Bishop says: how is the Minister going to ensure that farmers are not the ones who ultimately have to pay or pay for the now increased targets? The cabinet has, of course, already adopted a substantial package of measures, including money, aimed at 2030. I see now that a new goal is being set before 2035. That also has an additional task. That's true. That extra effort is not only through agriculture, I say with emphasis. This is an additional effort that is required from all sectors. That means that we are going to have to re-establish that programme in 2028. We will therefore have to determine what are the things that are essential to this. I assume that Mr Bishop also shares the budgetary consequences. We will then decide in 2028 what is needed if we are to draw up and establish that programme. Mr Bishop himself has already given the impetus, but I think that an agricultural agreement can make a very important contribution to this. I understand that Mr Bishop wants to involve this not only in the primary sector but in a lot of chain movements and everything that is involved. The recovery of investments, the earning capacity of the farmer, fortunately does not come from the government alone, I would almost say, but also from all kinds of parties around the chain: the processing industry, the retail and so on. So I also think that this is one of the issues that you should address in such an agricultural agreement. You will also have to look at how we can ensure that we can still produce something like food, which is so important to everyone, while at the same time not just knocking down costs on that farmer. As far as I am concerned, that would be something to take on board, but I would like to make a move for something on which I think Mr Bishop himself has made a proposal. He also asks: should a permit be applied for before grazing? That's actually a rhetorical question, because he doesn't think that should be. He asks how I am going to ensure that farmers do not have to apply for a permit for every grazing season. The Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems, the Remkes Committee, we asked for advice on grazing and fertilising. The main line of the opinion is that for pastures there is in principle no obligation to permit and for fertilise. I have endorsed that line of reasoning myself, as I have said before. The provinces have done the same; we have done this together. But that line of reasoning has not yet been reviewed in the current legal procedure at the Council of State. In the next procedure, the provinces will also lay down this line of reasoning for review. So that really is our commitment. We ourselves will continue the line that the advisory board has set out on this point until 2021. I therefore do not intend to make grazing and fertilising compulsory. Mr Geurts says that our agriculture has a unique position in the world. He asks if I have any insight into how much ground it takes to stay at the forefront internationally in terms of knowledge, innovation and sustainability. If I translate it into my own words, his question was: what is the critical size of agriculture in the Netherlands in order to maintain that position? It is true that Dutch agriculture and horticulture has an international leading position in the production of food. We also have the potential to maintain that position. That's what I'm doing about every day, in everything I do. We look in our policies at what we need to contribute to this. He asked: what exactly is the critical mass for that? I don't have a number for that right now, but our whole policy and everything we do is to maintain that strong position, knowing that we still have a number of issues to solve there. That is one of the issues before us this evening. We have to keep working on that with each other. He also asks whether I am aware that everything we produce less in the Netherlands will come from other countries. Other members also pointed out this. In the view of circular agriculture that we have established, Valuable and Connected, this has been one of the starting points: what is needed for sustainable food production in our country, where we produce within the framework of emissions that we can have, but also in a way that can be done and affordable, and which is economically profitable for farmers to continue doing so? One important point is to keep an eye on the demands we impose on our own farmers in relation to what we import. We'll have a little discussion about that sometime. This is also an incredibly important point in trade agreements, which we must continue to work on. At the same time, as the Netherlands, we must of course also ensure that our quality and safety remain at the forefront, because they are one of our major assets in the export field. I understand that Mr Geurts is considering another motion on this point. That's what he announced. I'll look into it and I'll be able to respond to it. Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber pointed out that in Gelderland a scheme had been opened for the buying-in of calves, which farmers could voluntarily participate in. Mr Geurts says that, as far as he can see, that regulation has been overwritten and that there are not enough resources to provide for it. He asks if I am willing to support Gelderland financially on this point. We generally have resources available for targeted buy-back. Gelderland can also call on them to see if they can use them. I think we need to look closely at how this is developing, how the demand for resources for targeted buy-back is. If there is more to do in one province than in the other, then perhaps we can also look at the distribution of resources, at the most effective way to use them. We have also been asked about the second and third instalments of the funds. We've been asked to do something about the stopping obligation. I'll get back to you on that. But these are all opportunities that, I think, we should also look more closely at and take advantage of on this point. Speaking of the provinces, Mr Futselaar asked the question: are provinces able to make difficult choices? He related that to, among other things, the demand about the peak chargers. Should we put that in the provinces in that way? The provinces are the experts in their area. Those who know, let me put it this way: what is the situation in their province and they are also able to map out that task in their area. With the knowledge of the various sectors in the area, they can also optimise the source measures. They can put that puzzle on their own. The provinces can know who their peak loaders are by simply entering the data in AERIUS or by looking at the calculations of the RIVM. The provinces have the information on the authorised situation of companies for which they themselves are competent. So they can make that choice. It's technically possible. The question is, do they do it? I believe that Mr Futselaar has tabled an amendment along with Mr De Groot on this point. I think that we will go into this in a little more detail in the discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u419	I don't just want to pile up blame on provinces, however much fun it may be, because I see that a lot of good things are happening too. What I'm just trying to say is: often the way provinces work in regional processes is bringing together one of people, thinking integrally, taking the time to make sure things are done thoroughly. It's sometimes that approach that I'm wondering about, given the big challenges and the fast deadlines we have, or that fits perfectly. Then maybe it's almost some kind of cultural problem in county houses. Not in general, but to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u420	In the whole approach to nitrogen, we have the source measures that must also be translated into the regions. The provinces are making an area-oriented approach to this. I believe that it is an amendment of yours which states that it must be adopted together with the Minister. I think if you do that, you're already gonna bring in a backup. Then one cannot say: we do not do it for a moment. We must, however, state what they are doing, and that must be established. If you find that, then of course you have a stronger guarantee that it will actually happen. At that time, there is also scope for discussion. That's how you formally secured it on the one hand. On the other hand, and so do the provinces, that when there is not so much space in terms of nitrogen, the urgency is to really do something. It's not a "we still have sense" call. It is a choice that if you do not do something, that also means that there is no room for development in any area on the other side. And that really makes the issue a little more urgent, even in the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u421	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u422	Mr. Chairman. Then questions have been asked about the state of play at the Nieuwkoopse Plassen. Mr Geurts and Mr Harberts have asked for this. I believe that Mr Bishop also had a question about it. At the moment, employees from the province of Utrecht, the province of Zuid-Holland and my ministry and an external consultant are considering how to make the development envisaged by the farmers in the Nieuwkoopse Plassen financially and legally possible. I expect more clarity on the approach at the beginning of next year. A pilot will then identify how this can be carried out in practice. I intend to take a look at the farmers in the area of the Nieuwkoopse Plassen myself at the beginning of January. That was actually planned this week, but in view of the run-up to this debate, it became a bit complicated in terms of the agenda. So I can see for myself how things are going. Then I also have some more specific questions about the buy-back budgets. Mr Bishop says that the provinces could look more closely at how to deal with these buy-back budgets and whether there are other ways to use them. In any case, provinces have the scope to use the funds for targeted buy-back in an effective way in accordance with the terms of the scheme. So they already have freedoms there, of course within the framework of the conditions we have set. On the basis of the evaluation of the first tranche, we are also going to shape the second and third tranches. Then we can see whether how we designed it is the most effective way and whether it may need other conditions. I hear Mr Bishop's question in a way that he says: could we perhaps also use it for innovation? I believe that at the moment when provinces................................................................................................................................................................................................ But then it must really be an additional result that they are going to achieve. Just thinking that it can be done in another way isn't enough. Then there is a chance that the budgets will be used in a different way and that the result will not be achieved. That's not the point. Moreover, it must also be linked to achieving the intermediate targets, I see in the amendment. Those seem to me to be very good terms. So when we do additional business and can prove that the result is there, this can lead to more flexibility in the budgets. Then there are the questions of Mr Bishop, Mr Harbers and Mr Geurts about the buying-in scheme. At the moment it leads to farmers not participating because they cannot be moved. That's because of the stopping obligation attached to it. I see that problem, let me put it this way. I see that this also makes it less attractive for, for example, the peak chargers to participate in a scheme. You're just gonna be a young farmer and you're gonna think, okay, I get that I'm not in the right place at this location. But if I go along with the Minister's arrangement now, I'm never allowed to be a farmer again. I can see that this is an obstacle to entering into such an arrangement at all. That does not seem to me to increase effectiveness. However, if we look at that and someone wants to move their company, because that's what it's about in the end, we have to make sure that it leads to a substantial reduction in that emission, otherwise we'll do it for nothing. This means that we have to set some conditions for this, for example that it is an existing company that is being taken over and that, if necessary, investments are being made to reduce emissions. I understand Mr Bishop's question, and I am also prepared to see what we can do about it. This concerns the second and third tranches of the targeted buy-back scheme. Then Mr Harbers asks how we should deal with the land freed from the buying-in scheme. Within the current system of buying-in, it is possible to keep agricultural land available for agriculture. The provinces also take this into account when they are discussing the purchase of livestock farms with the farmers concerned. So there's a possibility in that. But there is also a possibility that the provinces buy up those agricultural land. However, that is an expensive issue. At the same time, we see that there are also some obstacles. That brings me to the point of Mrs Dik-Faber, who asks whether this land is not an obstacle to buying such a business, while you also have opportunities to use the land in other ways, such as excessive agriculture, nature or possibly housing. That's one I see, too. You actually need some sliding space with the ground to make that effective measures. I'm also willing to see what it takes to make sure we can create that sliding space. Mr Baudet also raised the question of the withdrawal obligation contained in the regulation. I think I have just indicated how we intend to deal with this in the second and third instalments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u423	Thank you to the Minister for the willingness to look into what else you can do with that land. She mentioned in the introductory phrase the current buy-back scheme, the targeted acquisition. Does it therefore wish to include them in the design of what is possible in the forthcoming generic regime? I assume that's next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u424	That's what we call the Lbv. Forgive all the abbreviations; that's terrible. That's the national termination scheme. Mr Harbers' specific question is whether I want to look at how land is being handled. I'll take a look at that, too. I don't know how we're gonna deal with that right now. I will look into that for Mr Harbers. It is also true that we need to look with the European Commission at what it means for the State aid frameworks. We are already talking to the European Commission about whether this scheme can be implemented under State aid. May I pledge to Mr Harbers that we will see what is possible in the discussions with the European Commission? That's the maximum possible now, I think. He nods, so I think that's okay. We've just talked about stopping duty. Mr Harbers also had a question about phosphate rights. What's the deal with that? Indeed, they are still above the phosphate ceiling at the moment. So I'm just gonna have to take them right now. We will evaluate the first tranche in the summer of 2021. That seems to me to be the time to see how we deal with this question about phosphate rights and the phosphate ceiling. In this way, we can determine how, if it is below the ceiling, we could then shape the transfer to companies that are really taking emission reduction measures. That is, of course, the condition. Mrs. Dik-Faber had asked about the ground. I've had that question. She also asked about the risk of driving up the land price. That is indeed the case. I can't deny that. But it depends very much on the precise situation and the area in question. Where is it? What are the other questions about land at that place and which parties are interested in it? It is therefore particularly important to identify this aspect as closely as possible and to involve it in sensible customisation in the case of buy-back and resale in the event of the purchase of a company's land. So it's really a local issue. It's almost customization you have to offer there. Then there were some questions about the external netting. For example, Mr Geurts asked me how I could prevent agriculture from being wiped out by external netting, as he said in an area. It is important to ensure that we keep a close eye on what happens with that external netting. In this way, we can detect unwanted effects in good time and thus prevent them. With the provinces, we have ensured a number of guarantees for a careful way of external salading with the livestock farms. This opening-up is, in principle, for one year. After six months, we're gonna evaluate how things are going and see if we still need to change things if we're gonna see things that aren't going well. We'll also see how we'll deal with that later. There will be a monthly monitoring. I mentioned all these cases earlier in the letter of 24 April 2020. I do think it's important to reconfirm that here. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how we can prevent Schiphol or Rijkswaterstaat from doing the same. We do this by looking very carefully at what is happening now and what it means in such a rural area. We keep a close eye on that with the provinces. We want to make sure we're aware of that in good time. Then we'll have to think about it. We'll have to think about it again. Mr De Groot actually had a question that went the other way. When it comes to stable capacity, he says: external netting can lead to depositions elsewhere, right? This policy rule has been drawn up by the provinces. External netting shall be based on the authorised and actually realised capacity. A farmer can only strike externally with the stable that stands there and not with the stable for which he does have a permit, but which has not yet been built. That's an important containment. The actual barn occupancy fluctuates due to time and may be higher at one time than at the other. If you are externally salding with that capacity, then 30% must be skimmed. There's a turnoff on that. If the farmer doesn't, he can fill up the stable himself. That's what's in his license. It's not like he can't fill up the stable. At the time of his external salding, there will always have to be a turn on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u425	If this law is passed, we actually have a permanent package. Everyone is critical of the external netting. D66 is critical of that, because there is an element in it that worries me. You give value in one way or another to a permit, to a temporary right granted to you for a particular purpose, or rather to an exemption. If you're gonna deal with that, you're gonna create value. This is where there is already so much value in agriculture, through phosphate rights, biorights, high land prices and so on. So you're actually forcing farmers to produce even more intensively on that little piece of land.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u426	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u427	Is the Minister prepared, now that we have the law, to look very critically at this and, in consultation with the provinces, to restrict the external netting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u428	Those policy rules were recently adopted by the provinces. I am not the one who determines what is in the county's policy, but I have no reason to limit it now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u429	Then we wait for the experiences, but D66 will follow this critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u430	Then the nitrogen registration system in relation to the external netting. Mr Futselaar had there... No, Mr Bishop had a question about that. That G is the SP or the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u431	I don't think they mind today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u432	No, I think so, too. On other days, that's a little more important. Mr Bishop asks how with the provinces I will ensure that no "road leak" is organised in external netting, so that there is no effective and efficient use of the nitrogen space. At the moment, I am working with the provinces on a regional nitrogen registration system, in which, among other things, the freed-up nitrogen space can be recorded in external netting and can thus be used for all kinds of social and economic developments. In almost all provinces the free space is already registered. If, for example, something is already being bought up, then it is not that the vacant space is gone, because the register is not quite running yet. It is now being noted so that we can put it back in place when the regional register is running. The aim is to allow that system to enter into force in the course of 2021 for the granting of authorisations. If that is the case, I will inform your Chamber of that too. I agree with the provinces on regional nitrogen registration. The underlying criteria should be the same, so that there are not twelve different types of regional nitrogen registration systems. That would be a very unclear whole for someone who has a deposition that also lands on another province. The underlying parameters are therefore the same. We'll see how we can get that running fast together. Then I get to the point of the peak chargers. Mrs. Bromet asks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u433	Mr Harbers has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u434	I have also drawn attention to ideas that live in the port of Rotterdam, but I do not know whether they are discussed here or in the development area. One of these ideas is to proceed with such a regional nitrogen registration system. They call it a dome concept themselves, but can you put it in there to prevent too much leakage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u435	I'll get back to that in a minute at the development room. Then I'm going to go into a little more detail on that point. The peak chargers. Mrs Bromet asks how the cabinet can say that there is an approach for peak taxers, without coercion. As a cabinet, we have just said that it is also stated in the agreements we have made with each other that we really need to look more closely at those peak chargers, precisely because space can really be created in those places. But that means two things. We will have to ensure in the targeted buy-back scheme that there will be no ban on continuing your business elsewhere. If you continue a company elsewhere, it will have to lead to substantial emission reductions. But we'll also have someone called it a cup of coffee that had to be drank really have to engage in the conversation with those peak chargers. I can see in what Mrs Bromet says that she thinks that we should actually apply coercion to that. Then you actually come to the point of expropriation and expropriation is already in the package of provinces and separate from this programme. But we also know that expropriation can take years and that it is really very expensive. You go into procedures, especially when parties are reluctant. As a result, it can take a long time and brings with it high costs. We therefore say: you really need to see if you can talk to those peak chargers to see what the options are. How can we help them? How can we facilitate them et cetera? We can already see that in certain provinces of Gelderland was mentioned as a number of parties, peak taxers, themselves reporting. That's how they can be helped. So we see that there really is potential in it when you look at it very closely. That was not so explicit in the package we adopted earlier this year for that approach, but we are going to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u436	I just want to clear up a misunderstanding. The Minister makes it a habit to fill out what I think. I'd rather just say what I think myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u437	Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u438	I'm not jumping to expropriate farmers. I didn't take the word for it either. I think it is a gain that farmers should at least be allowed to talk to, because I read earlier that there are provinces and delegates who do not dare to drink a cup of coffee at peak taxers, because they feel that they are looking for coercion. We are moving forward in all small steps, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u439	Mr President, I do not intend to fill in Mrs Bromet's words. I'll keep an eye on it. I have the impression that Mrs Bromet blames me for this and I am sorry about that. I am trying very humbly to answer the questions that have been asked. I don't mean to put her words in the mouth. I'm just trying to give you some good answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u440	I don't count him as interrupting, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u441	Well, that's pretty fidelity, isn't it? Mr Geurts had a specific question on the external review commissioned by the Chamber, in accordance with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. It can be seen from this that the purchase of certain peak loaders may be more cost-effective. I think my answer to this is in line with the answer I have just given to Mrs Bromet. Purchasing a peak load is one case more cost-effective than in the other case. It depends on where you're sitting. In any case, we have already included cost-effectiveness thresholds in the schemes and so the provinces can involve the highest peak chargers in the buy-out. But by identifying where the peak chargers are and by looking at what's possible, I think we can make it even more cost-effective. That was also Mr Harbers' question. He asked: can you also approach the peak chargers in a targeted way? I think I have already said a few things about this, for example how we can deal with it later. Mrs. Dik-Faber specifically asked about Gelderland. Can you just help with that, too? I have just given an answer to that when I responded to Mr Geurts. Then Mr Geurts had another question about the collective nature. That was also the question about nature grounds, whether they can be signed in. I have already said that regular farming cannot simply be described as a nitrogen-sensitive habitat. The agricultural nature collectives would have lost confidence in the government. That scares me, I have to tell you, if that's the case. In general, I do have good contacts with the agricultural nature collectives, precisely because we are looking together for ways, for example, of supporting and helping these collectives in the new CAP, so that they can continue their valuable work, because we all see that. How am I going to regain the lost trust? If it's really lost, I'd like to hear more about it. I interpret the question more broadly, how are we going to regain confidence in agriculture and perhaps very specifically in these groups? I think it is precisely with this law that we can lay a basis for moving forward with it, that we do not stay... 'Hanging' is a negative name, but that we are trying to get back to talking about what is needed for the future for agriculture in width. What is needed of all the parties involved? That is me, that is this Chamber, those are the chain parties, the financiers, the nature organizations: all parties that belong to it. This is also in line with Mr Bishop's call for an agricultural agreement which has been widely implemented. I think that might be the way forward to regain that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u442	Maybe a little explanation. I've heard that sound from three farmers' collectives. So not from one source, but from three. They feel that if they do it very well, their grounds could be designated as nitrogen-sensitive. The better they do agricultural nature management, the more likely they are at this "price" between quotes. But the Minister said that this would not be possible if there were regular agriculture. I find that very interesting, particularly the question of what is meant by'regular agriculture'. Is it "regular agriculture" in the floodplains?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u443	This really is a point that also plays in the provinces. Here's what I'd like to propose. Shall I agree that with the provinces I inventory whether they want to engage in the conversation with these collectives? They also know these collectives well, because they are in the POP3 scheme. I'll spare you all the details around that. Then we look at what is still needed to remove that fear, if there is one, and to clarify what is now and what is not covered by it. I think this is the best way to do that. I'd like to make that commitment. Mr Bishop asks Mr Geurts and others I have heard him sing, but the most pregnant question asked Mr Bishop if we could reach an agreement to look at what is needed to give the agricultural perspective in this way. I think that's a very interesting thought. I also know that Mr Moorlag has raised this point several times. That's when I've always been a little clingy about it. But I do see now, in the context of a number of challenges that we have to deal with this legislative proposal, and precisely because we have a higher ambition for the years after that, that it is important to give farmers a more long-term perspective and security. If a farmer makes investments over the next few years, it won't be for a few years. Then it's good to give them that look. But then it's also good if they can talk about it themselves. That could be done in such an agricultural agreement, so I think that is a very interesting idea. Mr De Groot then asks: if so, will the good people come to the table? I leave the qualification of who the good people are to him, but I hear that he actually says: make sure that those directly involved are just sitting at the table. If that is the case, I will wait and see how the Chamber reacts to this. I would like to see which parties can be specifically invited to it. There were some concrete questions about the subsidy module for resource-oriented sustainability measures. Mr Geurts had a very specific question about this. He had a case of someone who didn't actually get through. He said that the opening period is also very short. The grant module consists of two modules and sets ambitious but also feasible conditions aimed at integrated source-based emission reduction. A total of 60 applications have been submitted for the innovation module, which is far more than anticipated. Any rejection of an innovation project shall specify the points in which the project has been rejected, so that the applicant, if he so wishes, can re-apply that project application at the next opening. So it's not like your chance's over if you don't have it in the first round. We have just provided several openings to prevent those who had finished their ideas from emptying the whole pot very quickly, while perhaps there were some very interesting ideas that we would like to give them a chance. So we have consciously foreseen that it is only briefly open, but we are going to open it several times so that several people, multiple groups, really have a chance to participate. Once again, if it did not succeed properly the first time, one should in principle hear where the points of improvement are so that, if one wishes, one can re-table it in the second set-up. I think that's a nice walk organized. Mr Harbers asks whether the extensive livestock farmers, who do over-average grazing, will soon have to make stable adjustments, even though they already have very few emissions around grazing. In the answers to written questions, it has also been said that the current rules on barn measures are already being used in granting permits for new or remodelling of stables. Bringing company management is one of the things that fits in with the business plan, to be honest, is not so good at the moment. This will be better possible if operating emissions can be measured and secured with measurements. The application of this sensor measurement is currently being worked hard. If this is possible in the future, these traces of food, business management and barn technology can be better combined. That also fits the desire to steer on targets and not on means. In other words, I think it is right to involve such measures in the question of how far you still have to make stable adjustments, but the truth is that it is really time to calculate and establish it properly. Mr Bishop asks: is it the Minister's intention to make innovations more accessible in the context of emission reduction? With the grant module source-oriented sustainability, two modules thus make innovation more accessible. I just explained that. An innovation module will first be used, in which research into the development of this innovation can also be carried out. Measurement is of great importance in this respect, so that the actual emission reduction can be achieved and determined. Subsequently, the investment module "the second "s' shall be used to apply that innovation. It must have been proven. I agree with Mr Bishop. He says, "Don't saddle the farmers with all kinds of innovations that don't do what they have to do." That is why we depend strongly on the proven innovations. We need to be able to identify exactly what they are doing. Those two modules therefore help and are in each other's extension. Mr Bishop also asks whether we are going to prevent parties applying these innovations from getting back into trouble. Yeah, it's all about that. That is why it takes a little longer before this can be expected to be taken into account, because you just need to be able to establish it properly before you start to allow it. But if it just works, of course it can have a real effect. Mr De Groot is still asking how I deal with the difference between the Rav's standards in theory and in practice. It was the CDM, to which Mr De Groot referred, which confirmed that low-emission stables do not in all cases deliver the intended emission reduction. Sometimes it is due to the technique, which then just does less than invented. Sometimes it is due to the way in which this technique is handled and management. In the letter of 13 October last to your Chamber, I indicated what actions are already under way and what additional measures are being taken to deal with them, such as the establishment of a stable centre of expertise, where, among other things, these practical measures are being carried out. And I also mention the research by the WUR into the stable management of low-emission stables. So we are looking closely at all these points. But I agree that this also requires a careful process, as I said to Mr Bishop. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the point of the PAS detectors and the non-detectors under the PAS. The official term is: non-reporting activities. I call it short for the sake of clarity: the non-detectors under the PAS. This is an issue that concerns a lot of people. It keeps people busy when it comes to it, but I also notice that people are very much involved here in the Chamber. 'Cause everybody's really upset about people being allowed to assume that what they did was legal. They were allowed to assume that they actually had an authorised activity, that they did not have to apply for a licence and that that activity was legal. Everyone is deeply concerned that these people are now in uncertainty and wondering: is my activity still legal, yes or no? You could say: what changes from day A to day B? But there are now very concrete situations where we see that someone, for example, wants to transfer their business to their children, but that they can no longer do so, that investments must be made at the company and that the bank then says: yes, but you do not actually have a valid permit. This creates really great uncertainty, and also pure fear. Do I still have my company? That's how it gets felt. I also feel that we have a responsibility here in the Chamber to deal with it properly. Many parties are actually asking me what solutions I am considering to resolve this issue. I have a basic approach that translates the notifications into permits. It's in the bill, too. This can also be done by using the measures in the legislative proposal that are intended to produce nitrogen for this purpose. With this I will also try to obtain as many reports as possible as soon as possible. In addition, I am looking at a so-called ADC test to see whether this will also allow for legalisation of reports that we cannot achieve with compensatory measures in another place. For example, in Groningen and in Zeeland there are not enough sources to compensate for that nitrogen. Then you want to see if you can do it some other way. We're looking, among other things, at whether you could put that in an ADC test. I have to be a little careful about saying what comes out of that, because that is also a path where I really have to take some steps along the European Commission. But it is a process of thought that is now taking place. Everything is aimed at ensuring that the activities of the so-called PAS detectors will become legal as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u444	Is it true it's about 3,000 detectors? And is Lelystad Airport one of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u445	It's true they're over 3,000 detectors. Most of them are agricultural activities. One of the PAS detectors is also Lelystad Airport, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u446	So with the amendment I asked Mr De Groot earlier, can we actually legalise Lelystad airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u447	The license of Lelystad, if it will already be realized in time,... I have already said that this is not something I can take care of in the short term. We will have to do several instalments to legalize the notifications. The whole group covers about 11 moles. We must, of course, take a careful look at whether a particular report in that area can also be carried out at the same time. At Lelystad Airport, I happen to know that it is a diffuse slander, as it is called, that reaches several Natura 2000 sites. So it's a lot more customization to see how you can legalize that notification exactly. It may therefore be possible to grant a licence in this way, but that does not mean that Lelystad Airport will also open with it. That is, of course, a political choice which still has to be made. By the way, I do not foresee that the report for Lelystad can be legalized in the very short term. As I said, we will probably be able to do the first tranche around May, mid-next year. These reports come from the warm clean-up of pig farming. As Mrs Bromet knows, that does not fall very much near Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u448	I think it's a dilemma, because the PAS detectors are farmers who simply weren't in violation. They were working on their business, but now it turns out they're doing illegal activities. It's hard for me. If we support the amendment, we will also open the gates to Lelystad Airport. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u449	I'd like to argue with that. As I said, this is only about a report of the activities on the ground at Lelystad. There are other factors that play a role in whether or not Lelystad can open. This has to do, among other things, with the nitrogen deposition in its totality. That is a broader issue. It is therefore not the case that if you agree to this, you also agree to the opening of Lelystad Airport. But it is also not the case that we are now making a distinction in all sorts of reports. It's already very complicated to make that distinction. I think it's a great price to say: because I don't want one thing, I leave over 3,000 families in the cold. But that's my personal opinion. Mr Harbers also asked about the banks. I have just mentioned situations where people can no longer get funding for their activities because they have no legal activity because of the lack of a licence. Do I want to talk to the banks about this too? We're already talking to banks about this point. I'm looking at a solution as broad as I can. Anything that can contribute to this, I want to take advantage of this. If there is a need for further discussion with the banks, I would also like to do so. There's no brake or taboo or anything for me here. We just need to be very practical about what's needed. Then the question asked by several people: can I take care of the PAS detectors administratively and financially, I call it, so that they can quickly go through the procedure? I realize that the reporters have to put time and money into supplying data. I'm talking to the provinces about ways to relieve them. So that's something we're looking at more closely at right now. Then there is Mr Moorlag's question on the enforcement of the reporters. He said that there are currently enforcement requests in a number of provinces regarding the PAS detectors. I am familiar with this, also with the case in South Holland. In this case, the province must take a new decision on an enforcement request. I am also looking with South Holland at the circumstances of this particular case, to see what the decision is on this objection and its justification. We are really looking specifically at how we can handle this case here. In broad terms, of course, when the approach to legalising those detectors is in place, we can also bring that into court cases to show that we are actually working to ensure that we legalise those detectors. I have also seen that there is an amendment to include this in this law as a kind of result obligation of my own. If that also helps to ensure that we can provide legal certainty where there is such uncertainty, then I am prepared to do so, but I am already ahead of the amendment. I think the question is not so much whether we want to do it, but more how we can do it as quickly as possible and as best we can. Then the question of how we deal with the non-reporting activities under the PAS, the non-reporters. Mr Bishop and Mr Moorlag reminded us of this and, in fact, all the others. We have not included these activities as such in this package. We have included the detectors in the current approach, but I can see that there is still a lot of uncertainty about this. The feeling is, what does this mean to me? These are companies that generally did not have the greatest deposition with their new activities. It is precisely the smaller companies, but that does not make the cases less painful or there are no fewer problems. That has led me to consider how we can also keep these activities legal. The amendment I have just mentioned also mentions this group. It proposes that this group should also be included in the law. As far as I am concerned, this could also be included in the amendment. In order to make this possible, we will have to take additional source measures. After all, we need a little more mill to legalize this group. Then it will also have to be put back in the pot a little more to keep that in balance. We foresee that this can be done by targeting the peak loaders and looking at what we can do with it and by making the package not less ambitious, but by finding a solution to this problem. Mr Moorlag had a question about the amendment I was just talking about, the amendment on the legalization of the detectors. Is this feasible and how does it relate to European law? In any case, a legally viable way of legalization is of course paramount. That's the most important thing for everyone. I must therefore ensure that I legalise on the basis of measures that have actually been taken and whose effects are determined. That is the real solution I have to offer. Those measures should also sufficiently compensate for the effects of those exempted companies. These will also be additional measures in relation to the measures I am already putting in place to secure the nature objectives. If you finish that pride, it will meet the requirements of the case law of the Council of State. In this way, I am also trying to legalise these detectors and to do so in a legally sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u450	Mr Moorlag has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u451	Then my question is: what are the value and significance of the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop? That amendment seems to me to be sympathetic in itself, but it does not yield any nitrogen gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u452	Certainly not, but it does oblige me to actually do that, at least that is how I read it now. This amendment lays down the obligation to do so in this way. Then you can hang me from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u453	Isn't this the classic point that you first regulate and spend with it and then promise that the nitrogen space will still be realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u454	No, this amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u455	Wait a minute. I'd like you to finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u456	The crux of the caselaw has been that it simply cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u457	As I have read it so quickly, this amendment does not state that it has legalised those reporters. This amendment merely says: they will be legalized and it is up to the Minister to ensure that this is done. I have to take measures to actually compensate for that nitrogen deposition. That is what I am doing with the package of measures I have just mentioned. This amendment actually obliges me to actually do what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u458	It's a short word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u459	It has to come from the same room. The housing, the companies... I feel like it's gonna be some kind of legal ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u460	I'm gonna try and explain it again. In the package of measures we have taken, we collect all kinds of mill, up to 180 moles. We'll keep a buffer. We need space to develop new economic activities, and we know that we also want to legalize detectors. For that we need about 11 moles; that is calculated by the RIVM. If you assume the range of 180 for development space and those 11, we end up at 110 moles. That's the ambition. That corresponds to 26%. The 11 moles have thus already been included in this package, so that there is room for the measures we are taking to bring them back into legalisation on the other hand. The question that is actually new here is: how do you deal with the group of non-reporting activities under the PAS? Well, I wouldn't have done anything for that; I'll be honest with you. Not in this approach. This is where the political request is now on the table to do the same. I said I'd be willing to do that. That just means I have to pick up that mill somewhere. Now I'm going to pick up that mill by buying out or moving more focused peak loaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u461	Thank you. I see Mr Madlener standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u462	Yeah, and it's been a long day. I have to let it get through to me, so perhaps my question is superfluous. If I understand correctly, the PAS detectors were dropped from the boat when the nitrogen duties were handed out. They have not been granted nitrogen duties. But they're gonna get it now. That's how it gets legalized. They'll get rid of the pig farmers. They then actually surrender those rights through expropriation. But weren't those PAS detectors in those models?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u463	At the moment, of course, they are causing a real deposition, because they are there. They exist. It was only in the ruling of the Administrative Court of a year and a half ago that it was also stated that this group was granted a non-legal licence. In other words, their activities are not legal now. That follows from the judge's ruling. In order to do so, they must therefore apply for a new licence. And when you apply for a permit, you have to create that nitrogen space somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u464	Yeah, but they're old cases, right? I thought they were there when the entire nitrogen system was introduced. They were already there, but now they have to get nitrogen space from other companies. I think that's weird. So they weren't actually included in that whole nitrogen distribution. They didn't actually exist in those models.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u465	No. Without wanting to put words in the judge's mouth... no, let me put it this way. The judge says: it has been said that you did not have to apply for a permit for those activities, but that should never have been said. That is my interpretation of the judge's ruling; that is how we read it, and that is how I think it is. It is therefore necessary to apply for a licence for those activities with retroactive effect. This means that one has to calculate what the situation was like before the stables were adjusted and what deposition was added afterwards. And if you want a permit, it still has to be compensated. Even though these emissions already exist and even though they already exist, that does not matter. The fact is that that extra deposition could not actually have taken place in that way, says the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u466	There's another question that comes to mind. The rights they then receive are negotiable. I'll take that as a supposition. They have value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u467	They're getting a permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u468	But there's rights to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u469	For each permit, a permit shall also have nitrogen space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u470	Yeah, so those rights are negotiable. Right? If they stop, they can sell it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u471	Well, if you have a license, you can possibly cross externally or internally. Those are the things you can do. So if you salt it with someone else or with any other activity, there's a 70% exit going down. It's not about getting value or marketable value. The point is that the activities they have remain legal. That's what wakes these people up: that they do activities that aren't legal at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u472	How many questions do you have in this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u473	I'm almost done with this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u474	Okay, 'cause I was gonna suspend for a while, I'm sure I'll tell the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u475	Oh, I'm done, because I've already done this in the interruptions with Mr Moorlag. So this was the block about agriculture and detectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u476	Then we're gonna suspend for five minutes. Stretching your legs is always important. So I'm suspending until a little after a quarter to ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u477	I'd like to give the Minister the floor again. It continues with its block of agriculture and economic developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u478	Construction and economic developments, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u479	Build! Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u480	We've just had agriculture, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u481	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u482	Sure. There is a lot of attention, and rightly so, for the construction, the quieting of the construction and the possibilities offered by the bill to get the construction back on track. That's, I think, a common goal here with all of us. I actually hear from everyone, from any party, that they understand that something really needs to be done there. Mrs Bromet asks: is it a conscious choice that the approach adopted does not yet allow for construction in certain areas? No, it certainly isn't. Did I misinterpret that again? Oh, not, okay. I am very focused on Mrs Bromet these days: do I interpret all the questions well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u483	If she looks all cheerful, the weather is not right! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u484	But with the ruling of the Council of State, licensing was virtually stopped everywhere. That once again indicates the urgency of this bill. Last year, through the Emergency Act on nitrogen, which was also dealt with here, the Cabinet ensured, through the nitrogen registration system, that deposition space for this housing and some infra-projects could be made available with priority. That was in almost all areas in the Netherlands. The building exemption in this law also further enhances the possibilities for construction. This really offers the opportunity to give another boost to that construction. But with that nitrogen registration system, I would also like to touch on Mr Futselaar's question: we wanted to spend that nitrogen space on projects where the zoning plan had already been drawn up. Then you know that you actually take the projects that can draw on them. That's what I call it and can start right away. You just want to get going as soon as possible. But there were also projects that were actually very close to establishing the zoning plan, but couldn't do it anymore because there was no more nitrogen space. So you get some sort of catch 22: first you couldn't use the nitrogen because you hadn't established a zoning plan yet, now you can't establish a zoning plan because there is no more nitrogen space. We can see that in a number of places in the country this has led to some distressing situations, to name but a few. Mr Futselaar already recalled that. For example, he mentioned Arnhem-Nijmegen, where there was an issue. Also in the Randstad there are some issues at that point. The exemption for the construction of temporary nitrogen emissions during the construction phase also does not require them to be involved in the assessment of the Natura 2000 permits. That's a big profit. So many bottlenecks can be solved. But there are also a number of bottlenecks where we might still be able to see where the space is now in the registration system, in order to get it back on track soon. I am also prepared to see exactly what the locations are and how we can implement them, in response to Mr Futselaar's question. That's a couple of them. It's not the whole system, because it doesn't have that much space in it at the moment, but it could make a difference in a number of places. Let's see what else goes with the building block. Could I offer another solution to the regional nitrogen registration system? Mr Harbers specifically mentions the dome netting, such as the one that takes place in the port of Rotterdam: a dome licence, a dome netting. As I have just said, I am working with the provinces on a system in which, among other things, the freed-up nitrogen space can be recorded in external netting, so that this space can be used for social and economic developments. That free space when external salading is already well recorded in a number of places. That system should run in 2021. I am also exploring with the provinces whether this system can help to solve the problem of diffuse slanderers, as we call them. These are slanderers that affect multiple sites, on several Natura 2000 sites. From the Empire, the ministries of IenW and EZK are involved in the elaboration of the so-called umbrella concept. I myself am talking to the seaports about possible solutions in this area. The results of the project for the umbrella concept will be foreseen by the end of 2021. Then we'll see if it all works that way. That's where they're working now. We will see if this offers a solution to these situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u485	Thank you. These are all elements I asked for. It's a good thing they're working on that. The only thing is that, as a Member of Parliament, I would like to keep a little more grip on how things are going, on progress. The Minister states that the results are expected by the end of 2021, but I assume that in the meantime there are also many explorations and discussions. Would the Minister be prepared to give us, as a Chamber, at least twice before that moment, so that, if there are any bottlenecks, we can see where they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u486	I will at least inform the Chamber at the beginning of next year about where we stand with these discussions and developing those ideas. Then I will look again at what is an appropriate time to inform the Chamber again. But at least at the beginning of next year, somewhere before the elections, I will report on the state of play. If we are talking about sea ports, what is possible in the field of maritime transport? That is a question from Mr Harbers and Mr Van Otterloo. Can we see what else is possible in the ports with shore power and in inland waterway transport, in relation to the tasks that the coastal provinces have, for example for construction? Mr Van Otterloo recalled that. I also see the complexity of coastal provinces, because they really do exist. We are also making a contribution now. The package also contains just investments for shore power, to see how you can reduce the deposition from shipping. That way, you can also make a contribution. I hear that the question is on the table here whether I could broaden that somewhat: can I go through the use of shore flow, can it be in more places, can I also look at the shipping routes? I find that an interesting thought, so to speak. I have to take a good look at it, but I think it's an interesting thought that's brought up here. This also applies: we should not think in taboos, but we should think that it is possible. I don't know if we can do it here, but we need to be able to put the ideas here on the table. Mr Harbers spoke about the Maasvlakte 2. We have built it for EUR 3 billion, but at the moment they can't do so much there, because they have nitrogen, even though nature compensation was already included in the plans. I have the feeling that Mr Harbers has been closely involved, because I think he knows a lot about it. Is this also something that can be drawn from the development reserve for national projects? Is that how it's gonna be? Again, in some areas, nitrogen is still a major problem. It is precisely in an area-oriented approach that we should also look at where we can deliver that customisation. We have indeed designed the development reserve, but it is not the case that we have already identified all kinds of places in which it is spent. It must also be a national project covered by it. It must be of national importance. So we also need to define this very well, also in order to determine the order in which they can use the nitrogen space. But that remains to be determined. I can't anticipate that yet. So I'm not ruling out that it's possible, but I can't promise yet that it's possible, that that's what space is about. This also applies to projects such as Zeeland and Groningen Seaport. The deposition space will of course not be released until you have taken compensatory measures elsewhere. So we have to win the space before we can spend it again. In some provinces, this challenge is even greater. I am also working with the provinces to see what exactly are the possibilities for developing such a project. External salading, the ADC key in some places, sometimes even internal salading. But what I said just now is that the definition of which national projects are covered by this development area really still needs to be defined. Mr Harbers asked what this need for nitrogen space actually means in the coming years. What exactly am I doing with the Minister of EZK? Together with EZK's colleague, we look together with stakeholders, among other things, on the basis of AERIUS applications from the past few years, at the prognosis of the size of the licence applications for the coming years. We need a good assessment of that. I think we will have a better view of this in the first quarter of 2021. If the deposition space is there, if we can use it again for certain effects, then we also need to look closely where we use it. This is likely to be particularly important in areas where national projects are involved. But that will also be in places where, for example, it is very difficult to carry out a project by other means, because there are no compensatory measures so quickly. Once we have established this, this means that the notification and projects that are of national interest can be re-approved with the bottlenecks reserve. Let's see what else we have here. I've also dealt with a lot of interruptions. Mr Moorlag asked: what is the Minister going to do with the business community, the large ports and the municipalities to untie these major projects? Do we know what else is needed for nitrogen space? We are already examining with the provinces what major projects there are, how much you would need for that and what the space that is there is to be realized in a different way. That's what I'm doing with EZK's colleague. If we simply have more insight into this, I will, of course, inform the Chamber about it, so that you can also take note of that inventory. Once the nitrogen space has been realized, we will of course have to determine how it can be best spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u487	Mr Moorlag is coming forward. Go ahead, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u488	This touches one of our most fundamental objections to the Nitrogen Act. That is the area for economic development and for housing. All the members here have had documents of the co-governments. The VNG writes: the nitrogen approach does not provide a perspective for the housing shortage and the realisation of the other societal challenges. The IPO writes: there is also a need for more source measures for the economic resources needed. There is still insufficient scope for economic development and housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u489	What is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u490	The Minister talks about exploration and a number of technical measures. But the fundamental thing is that there are simply too few source measures in place to detach this housing and to get the economy moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u491	Mr Moorlag asked me: what is needed to enable housing, what is needed to enable economic developments again? The simplest answer would be to adopt this law. Because in this law there is a partial exemption for construction. This means that the housing projects in the construction phase will be able to continue. There is no need for a compensatory measure at that time. That would be a great boost for housing. That's at stake here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u492	For the construction phase there is indeed room. However, the houses are not unused; traffic is also going. The review of the land use plans will also take into account the use phase. It is not for nothing that the fellow governments are sending this signal. They say there are not enough source measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u493	I know that letter. I think that Mr Moorlag quotes extremely selectively from this letter. I know the letter from the IPO and the IPO says: we fully support this approach. We are pleased that the bill is in place. It is essential and, yes, we also need space if we are to continue with economic development. I challenge Mr Moorlag and ask him to tell us where he wants to take the source measures. That, in my view, was the debate he had just had with Mr Geurts and Mr Harbers. Then we can see if we can organize more space there together. I know one thing: when this law is not passed, we certainly do not have that development area. Mr Moorlag will therefore have to answer for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u494	That will also have been the argument at the time when presenting the PAS. This law is simply not good enough. In response to the question of where to take source measures: more peak taxes will have to be bought up, more money will have to be allocated. I mentioned the phosphate rights as a button you can turn on. In other words, nitrogen activities must be bought out in order to create nitrogen space for housing and for economic development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u495	Mr Moorlag (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Moorlag on his excellent report. That is also a political choice, which he must also make and explain at the same time, precisely to those young farmers who are land-based, whom I believe we all want to support. You may, but nothing is without consequences. The cabinet is putting forward a proposal which contains all kinds of concrete measures. It has included 3 billion for nature restoration, which hasn't happened in years. If Mr Moorlag says that 'they were all the considerations in the PAS', I should be allowed to say that I do not want to take old cows out of the box, that the PvdA was at that time one of the architects of the bill that was underneath. I am not going to blaze them for that, because we have all had a role in it, a few parties are not, I say honestly. I would like Mr Moorlag to acknowledge that not adopting this law is also a choice and that there is certainly no answer to VNG, IPO, municipalities and provinces that are now begging for some space. That is the consequence of the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u496	Mr Moorlag, since you are so challenged, I give you the opportunity to respond briefly to this interruption. So only on that, otherwise you're going to spend your last interruption on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u497	It is also a choice not to take more source measures. It is also a choice not to follow the advice of the Remkes Committee. It is also a choice not to allow 130 major projects that NFIA and Invest-NL talk about to continue because there is insufficient nitrogen space. That's a choice too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u498	If Mr Moorlag says 'the 130 projects need to be speeded up', I would like to say right away: give me how we should do that and when we are going to do that, that also means a choice on the other hand. Then it may be that a chemical complex continues, but at the expense of young land-based farmers. That may be so, but I would like Mr Moorlag to take account of it. He's not doing that right now. He says follow Remkes! In Remkes there were goals and paths to it, but not to such a concrete extent all kinds of concrete proposals with means to achieve them. The Cabinet did do this. I think I've said too much about it now. Mr Moorlag is also concerned about airports. He wants the airports to get the valid license. How am I going to solve the space that is needed with the provinces as a result of the growth of aviation? I've received a number of permit applications. We are currently assessing those licence applications to see whether they meet the requirements for a permit. I cannot anticipate the outcome of that, but if there is any clarity, I will inform the Chamber. Mrs Dik-Faber says that we will have development and construction space again for the next few years, but how will that be later? What about it? At least we have the included exemption for the temporary nitrogen emission during the construction phase. It stays, if the bill is passed. It's just gonna keep going, even in a couple of years. That's a huge profit, I think. In addition, projects can also make use of all the other possibilities I mentioned: internal salading, external salading, ADC test, also in the area-oriented approach to see what the sources are with which you can make other activities possible. As I said, projects of national interest can also benefit from the development reserve. I have just explained how we are going to do that in the answer to Mr Harbers' questions. Then there was also a specific question about the diffuse chargers, such as the maritime service port on Urk. There are a number of municipalities that have sent a lot of letters, I think. I hear some questions coming back. I know that in some areas the challenge of reducing nitrogen is considerable and that the existing opportunities for some projects do not provide sufficient relief. Together with the provinces, we are now looking at the possibilities of finding a tailor-made solution for those diffuse chargers, such as that maritime service port on Urk, precisely within that area-oriented approach. This can also be solved by the regional nitrogen registration system, because if you have picks on all these different systems that these parties need, it can help. They can also use them to enable these activities, especially if it is only a small deposition that is located on several Natura 2000 sites. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I had a number of questions about the monitoring and the whole system. Mrs Bromet asks who I have all spoken to in connection with the legislative proposal and whether I have also spoken to Mr Vollenbroek, for example. There have been discussions with many people involved about the legislative proposal and also specific aspects of it. We also have a sounding board nitrogen. There are a lot of parties from the field in there, including the MOB. They therefore have a formal role in a gremium that we have set up in order to allow the discussion to take place with the social partners. We've also had informal conversations. We've done the whole thing to get as much information and insights as possible. The question on foreign issues has still been raised by Mr Geurts. Mr Bishop and Mr Harbers have also asked questions about this. Can I see what the possibilities are in an area where foreign emissions make almost nothing possible and someone has done almost everything they could do? I was just getting ahead of it in the consideration of an amendment. I was talking about its legal sustainability. It states that it is also necessary to look at what is happening abroad. So I'm already having these conversations with colleagues from abroad. That's what I just mentioned. If you see that there is a bottleneck that really cannot be solved, you should be able to talk to the European Commission about what it means. Once again, we have to start reducing the nitrogen ourselves first. So I myself am trying to conduct all the discussions about this with the Member States around us. Mr Geurts is asking for mobility. He refers to a recent report by the PBL in which he reads that mobility is expected to emit more ammonia in the coming years. It has been adopted and planned policies taken into account. He asked whether this would mean that additional measures would have to be taken for this source of nitrogen. The limited increase in ammonia emissions from road traffic is linked to the techniques to reduce NOx emissions. This is particularly true in modern diesel cars. These ammonia emissions have already been included in the PBL and RIVM projections. Due to a sharp reduction in NOx emissions, road traffic already contributes to the reduction of nitrogen depositions, despite the increase in NH3 emissions, i.e. ammonia emissions. Work is currently under way at European level to tighten up these emission standards for passenger cars and lorries. These are the so-called Euro 7 standards. These standards are expected to apply to new vehicles by 2025/2026. This tightening will also include emission standards for ammonia through the use of the Netherlands. So we're already working on that. Then the models and the measurements. Mr Geurts asks if I can explain why the different types of models and measurements that are also taken in other places are not being used. I believe that Germany was mentioned; I do not know by whom, but I think that Mr Geurts also mentioned it. The Hordijk Committee has indeed referred to the use of several models. In the cabinet response I indicated that there will be a programme of knowledge on nitrogen. It also looks at the ensemble modeling. The number of measuring points is being expanded in any case. Mr Harbers has already mentioned it, but that is already happening. The measurement and calculation system is constantly improved to calculate the deposition as accurately as possible. Mr Harbers also asked about the ensemble modelling. That's what we're gonna do. In this way we can see what the effect of the models is and how they relate to each other. Mr Harbers also asked why there is a cut-off limit in the targeted buy-back scheme, while in AERIUS the assumption is that extra deposition can be reduced to a long distance. The distance limit of the buy-back scheme is about cost-effectiveness. So just companies that are less than 10 kilometres away are eligible. They are closest to that area and are therefore the most cost-effective. That doesn't mean there's no deposition around that. This is taken into account in AERIUS when granting the authorisation. AERIUS is also being refined more and more. So new insights are always being used. As far as the distance limit is concerned, I will use RIVM to investigate whether a scientifically based distance limit or deposition value can be established for different emission sources and what implications this entails. Mr Bishop asked the following question: what does Minister Schouten think of the opinion of the Hordijk Committee that the cover per hectare should no longer be looked at, but should be looked at per habitat? The change to habitat type means that the difference in deposition can no longer be fully viewed or determined at the relevant locations in that area. It follows from the precautionary principle and case law that authorisation must assess the impact of the deposition on each site. It's now being investigated to see if we can look at it by habitat. On 13 October I indicated in my response to the Dutch Parliament and promised to return to this by the summer of 2021. So we're going to see if this can be made clear by habitat. Mr Bishop asks me to stop counting the number of kilometres, just like on the roads. I have just said that we are looking at whether a single criterion can be established for a well-founded distance limit or deposition value for the different emission sources. We are also looking at what is technically possible in terms of design content, legal, environmental and implementation. As I said, you will hear more from us before the summer of 2021. Mr. Chairman. I think I answered all the questions that were in my folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u499	I'll take a look around. I don't see anyone jumping up, so that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u500	I have the amendments so far. Should I comment on that or would you prefer that I do so in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u501	We usually do it at the end of the second term, unless there are members who want it now. I don't see anyone jumping forward, so we'll do it in the second term. We're gonna get ready for the second term. Oh, Mr Moorlag has another question. That's okay, because he's got one more interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u502	I read in the media that the nitrogen space resulting from the reduction in speed is being used for housing. My question is whether this is true, because that space would be used for the seven MIRT projects. My question is: is that right, because they would be used for the seven MIRT projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u503	I think I have just said to Mr Futselaar that in some places... He himself mentioned: Arnhem/Nijmegen, Zaanstad and Zwolle. I was just talking about a catch 22: the zoning plan had not yet been established and so the nitrogen register was not yet allowed to be used. And then the zoning plan can no longer be established, because the nitrogen register should no longer be involved. That's kind of a tricky situation. Mr Futselaar asked if there are any places where there is still some space, despite other housing and MIRT, so that we can just pull out a project with the space that is still in the nitrogen registers. I have said that I would like to see whether that is possible, because if there is room that we have not yet used, while there are plans that can be set in motion, so to speak, à la minute, then we should not let that momentum pass. I have just said that I am prepared to look at that and I think there are still some options in a few places. I am equally realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u504	That is a good thing in itself, but the picture is that the nitrogen space resulting from the generic reduction in speed, which was announced earlier this year, would be used to solve the bottlenecks in housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u505	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u506	The picture is that that would have been agreed, but the Minister of IenW says: no, that space is used for the seven MIRT projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u507	But it's about the specific location where there's still room. It is true that we have said: housing and those seven MIRT projects. But they don't fall everywhere in the Netherlands... So for that housing you had to have a zoning plan... I'm only gonna repeat it one more time, Mr. Chairman. There were a few places where that zoning plan had not yet been established, but where a little bit of space still appears to be in the nitrogen register. Mr Futselaar's question was whether we should just let that exist side by side or whether we should try to get something out of it. Then I say: I would like to make another attempt with the Minister for Foreign Affairs to get something out of it. But that does not change what we had already established, namely that we are doing the housing and the MIRT projects. So now we can do a little more housing projects than we thought before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u508	Thank you. Then we're gonna get ready for the second term on the side of the Chamber. Mrs Bromet is the first speaker. I am happy to give her the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u509	Mr. Chairman. It was a very long nitrogen day. We knew that before. It's not quite over, either. I want to thank the Minister for the answers. In the near future, and looking from a distance at the debate, the Minister's answers, our input and my input on the nitrogen law, I would like to say that we have made nature policy in the Netherlands incredibly complicated. Actually, no one gets it anymore. I think that is also unsustainable in the long term. But for now, we have to do it with what's in there. I do not believe in it and GroenLinks is going to vote against it, but I sincerely hope that in three years' time we will not find ourselves in this situation again and that I am wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u510	Thank you. I am looking at Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u511	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will take it from Mrs Ouwehand and I can also tell you that I will not use that ten minutes entirely. Mr. Chairman. I do not think that anyone in this Chamber wants to get into a PAS 2.0, and yet here a majority is signing up to this law, a law that does not do what is minimally necessary for nature and a law that does not specify that we must have the highest need in ten years' time. And not me, but VVD-coryfee Remkes stated that a 50% reduction in emissions in ten years is necessary. And as long as that's not stuck, nature permits are on legal quicksand. This law does not provide a legally sustainable basis for the issue of new licences. It is a flight forward until after the elections, without the necessary solution getting nearer. Mr. Chairman. A number of parties think they are constructive in supporting this law. But eleven years ago, when authorisation also stopped because of nitrogen emissions, it was the PvdA that wanted to be constructive and developed the PAS together with the CDA. It has been mentioned a few times in this debate. That's actually what the whole debacle started with. It is now eleven years later and the same thing is happening again! It is not constructive at all if you cooperate on plans that later turn out to be legally unsustainable. We need to move away from legally unsustainable false movements as in the law that is now before us. Mr. Chairman. With this law, entrepreneurs remain in uncertainty. Their licences are promised, for example the cow trade in nature permits called "external salading" and even a permit exemption for construction. But there is no ecological justification for defending that in court. Who would benefit from this uncertainty? Not the entrepreneur, not the farmers and nature the least of all. In fact, I would warn the Minister that she is now knowingly creating a second set of PAS detectors. Construction companies are told that they are saved with a permit exemption, but thus without ecological justification. If legal proceedings are to be brought, these companies appear to have been made happy with a dead sparrow, because they still need a natural permit, and so a new set of PAS detectors has been born. Those 1 million houses that should be built over the next ten years, of course, never get off the ground. Mr. Chairman. As far as the PAS is concerned, the Party for Animals has subsequently been proved right. Unfortunately, I have to say, because nature has suffered great blows at that time and is far from being recovered from it. I fear that in a few years' time we will be right again with our criticism of this bill. I know the legal knives are already being sharpened. We cannot afford to postpone real measures, nor can we afford to be in the same place as we are today in a few years' time, with a nature that will be even worse off by then. That is why the Animal Party will not support this bill. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on two amendments to the Nature Protection Act which we are discussing today. Several spokesmen Mr Futselaar, Mr De Groot, Mrs Bromet, have already spoken about the poor state of Dutch nature. Mrs Ouwehand mentioned all the cocks crawling out of the egg like a chick with broken legs. If they already crawl out of the egg, because the lack of lime also affects the egg shell, which causes the young to die in the egg. This is all due to a lack of lime, and that is all due to the acidification of the soil, which causes important minerals and lime to wash out. Another example of this poor quality of Dutch nature is the fact that hare and rabbit are now on the red list of endangered species. These are common native species that were common in large numbers, but have declined by 60% to 70% in recent decades. Last month I asked written questions to the Minister with colleagues from D66, PVV, GroenLinks, SP and PvdA. We asked, among other things, if the minister was willing to take hare and rabbit off the wild list. The wild list is a list of species that are freely huntable. Of course, it's insane that a hunter who gets an endangered species running can just blow that animal off. That is why I have tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution. 22, which calls for the endangered hare and the endangered rabbit to be removed from the list of wildly huntable species. There are other species on that wild list. Nor can it be explained that, if one of these species were to be on the red list of endangered species, the hunting of these species would not stop. That is the purpose of the amendment in respect of item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 26. Then I have three motions to push the largely inadequate nitrogen approach in the right direction. But I will wait until Mr Geurts asks his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u512	Go ahead, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u513	I was just thinking about that amendment. How much nitrogen do these rabbits and hares get?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u514	Those rabbits and hares will not produce much nitrogen, but we are in the process of amending the Nature Protection Act and I can table these amendments there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u515	Oh, you're taking advantage of the fact that this law is equally open to try to settle this, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u516	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u517	Ah!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u518	Is that the answer to your question? Fine. That is what the two amendments are about. That's no. 22. I don't know if it's 23 or 22. I changed one later. I've got three more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u519	I hear that the Animal Party is going to table amendments to amend that wild list, but as far as I know the answers to our questions are not yet in place. So how do you see this, also in the context of care? I am asking this all the more so since this whole issue has not been discussed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u520	Those questions haven't been answered yet. Those have been filed. I'll take it out of my head on 4 November. There's a time limit for that. Even in the agriculture budget, I have asked questions about this. They weren't answered either. So as far as I'm concerned, it's time. We can wait here until the end of the day. As far as I am concerned, and as far as the Animal Party is concerned, it is now time to settle this. We can deal with this now with this amendment, so let's do it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u521	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u522	The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need to reduce nitrogen emissions substantially in the short term;]] [[Whereas reducing the number of animals bred, used and killed is a very effective measure to achieve that objective;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a scheme for the removal and removal of 30% of pig, poultry and phosphate duties in each transaction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a scientific test on the Article 3.1 Compliance Act annex on the Land Farming Scheme shows that the effectiveness of the programme cannot be demonstrated because there are no concrete objectives and it is purely voluntary;]] [[Whereas the scientists who have carried out this test state that mandatory measures will increase the effectiveness of the scheme;]] [[Whereas expropriation of holdings occurs regularly because of the construction of roads or residential areas and is apparently not taboo;]] [[calls on the Government to set specific nitrogen reduction targets in the Provincial Purchase Scheme for livestock farming near nature reserves;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the scheme that provinces may opt for expropriation of peak loaders if necessary in order to achieve these objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u523	And then my third and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is a nitrogen blanket across the Netherlands, which makes extra nitrogen emissions almost everywhere undesirable;]] [[points out that the relocation of nitrogen-producing companies is a problem and therefore a waste of taxpayers' money,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u524	It's an expression of speech, so the minister doesn't have to give it an appreciation. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u525	Mr. Chairman. I have five motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the results of the final report of the Advisory College on Measurement and Calculation of Nitrogen;]] [[noting that a high level of detail is accompanied by great uncertainty;]] [[Whereas the degree of detail in the calculation of the deposition is not balanced by the uncertainty of the various factors determining the deposition;]] [[calls on the Government to make a model ensemble of the different models, including the critical deposition values (KDW);]] [[calls on the Government to rapidly implement a cost-benefit analysis of Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the competent authority may award the label "Nutricity-sensitive" to private land;]] [[noting that this has caused a great deal of fuss;]] [[noting that it is desirable to involve at least landowners in a plan to award the label "Nuclearness";]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of another procedure, actively informing the landowners of the intention to award the nitrogen-sensitive label and allowing landowners to participate in it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands' pioneering role in agriculture and horticulture is not sufficiently exploited by politics in enforcing strategic agreements with other countries within and outside the European Union;]] [[noting that the area of agricultural and horticultural land is declining annually in the Netherlands and worldwide and that this calls for more knowledge and innovation;]] [[Whereas a smaller area of Dutch agricultural land also makes it more difficult to continue to participate globally in food security, research and knowledge and product development;]] [[calls on the government to reflect how Dutch agriculture and horticulture maintain sufficient critical mass and quality in 2030 to remain internationally leading in the field of food security, knowledge, innovation and sustainability, and to use this strategic value in geopolitical issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the source package includes a measure to encourage over-statutory investments in nitrogen reduction among peak loaders in industry;]] [[Whereas in some areas local industrial peak loaders may be part of the solution to the nitrogen problems;]] [[calls on the government to take into account the impact of local specific peak operators in the design of the measure, and to consider whether provinces can play a role in this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Remkes Committee's report makes a preliminary effort to achieve emission reduction;]] [[Whereas ammonia reduction can be achieved in several innovative ways;]] [[considers that dairy farmers should be able to continue to play their own game on their own farms and that target requirements should be guiding;]] [[Whereas the indication kg. NH/ha could be an appropriate targeted standard (KPI);]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with dairy farming, the extent to which it could be useful,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-30]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-31]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts, Mr Harbers and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u526	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for all the answers and for the support she has had from the department. Mrs Bromet has just invited me informally, but now also officially via Twitter for a cup of coffee. I will take it up with my co-worker to schedule it in the short term, next week or the week after that. Maybe we'll tweet a picture to all the interested parties who wanted to know if we were actually going to do that. Let's see if we can get that far. So I try to close this day a bit nicely again, Mr President, because the day is quite intense for some of us. I have one more question for the Minister about the Futselaar/De Groot amendment, the so-called provincial amendment. Will the government, the government, now also provide data to the provinces they need to do so? There is a problem in the GDPR, I understand, so there has to be a solution to that. The second question is: does this amendment also have financial implications? 'Cause here's an assignment coming to the county. How's that gonna go financially? I think this is about the amendment to item No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u527	Yeah, that's what the clerk said. Very good. And you have another question open about an article.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u528	Yeah, but I've been able to find that myself. It's page 33, question 88. That turned out to be the result of questions that I believe we had asked ourselves. So I apologize for the fact that I didn't have that sharp anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u529	You're forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u530	That had to do with this day, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u531	Fine. Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I am looking at Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u532	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions from the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[The Netherlands has a historically high housing shortage;]] [[We need more homes in the shortest possible time;]] [[start-ups and people with lower and middle incomes should have better opportunities for housing;]] [[the cabinet wants to speed up housing production, but is hampered by the nitrogen problem;]] [[the introduction of the exemption for construction projects in Wsn contributes to that acceleration;]] [[however, bottlenecks remain in areas such as Zaanstad and Haaglanden;]] [[Whereas:]] [[directs the cabinet on concrete commitment of municipalities to planning capacity, locations and numbers and calls on them to use their spatial tools;]] [[municipalities, including, for example, Zwolle, are often unable to establish land use plans because the SSRS only provides nitrogen space for permits for housing projects;]] [[municipalities are therefore unable to commit to planning capacity, locations and numbers and cannot steer the multi-annual housing statement;]] [[consider how this can be broken;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[consider whether deposition space in the nitrogen registration system that cannot be used for housing or infrastructure projects can be used as a priority for reservations for housing zoning plans;]] [[to explore and develop at least the possibilities in the regions of Zwolle, Arnhem/Nijmegen and Zaanstad;]] [[report to the House of Representatives at the beginning of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u533	There are two things I would like to clarify in abundance. Only if there is room: that must be clear. I'm not asking for an impossible assignment here. And if any of these cases are found, take them with you. I'm not trying to prick the only place in the Netherlands where this happens. Mr. Chairman. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas appropriate housing for the elderly is a major social challenge;]] [[Considering that, according to the Committee on Future Care, parents living at home until 2030, 70,000 additional clustered homes should be realized;]] [[Notes that the Cabinet has made available an amount of 20 million for 2021 to support the establishment of meeting rooms in residential complexes for the elderly;]] [[noting that it creates conditions for neighbourhood residents and residents of a residential complex to meet each other and that it creates a form of a care neighbourhood;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that an amount of 20 million is also made available in 2022 to support the establishment of meeting rooms in residential complexes to realise forms of care neighbourhoods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Terpstra and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u534	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to say one more word, let me say the unusual bedpartners last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u535	It's gonna be exciting. You keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u536	That sometimes gives an interesting picture. I would like to say that it was painful at times, but I think the pain is fairly fairly divided. I appreciate that you've been kind to someone who may not know this route very well, let me put it this way. On the other hand, I would like to say that I understand the concerns extremely well and share some of them, but I come to the conclusion that a moderate law is preferable to perhaps no law. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Madlener that I also appreciate his contribution, especially since he is just staying here all evening to debate and not doing like some other Members of Parliament: coming in here for ten minutes, dropping a few conspiracy theories, then leaving the debate and not having the decency to listen to the Minister. I find it hard to respect that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u537	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u538	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for her answers and her promises. There's gonna be a lot going on next year. We'll all keep an eye on it. Also because there are listening and readings outside this house, I would like to highlight some of the issues raised by the Minister in her term of office, with motions for resolutions. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that initiators of notifications and reporting-free activities as a result of the PAS ruling of the Council of State of 29 May 2019 should be provided with a nature permit;]] [[Whereas not having an appropriate licence at present makes it difficult to obtain (company) financing;]] [[Whereas these promoters cannot be held responsible for the fact that they do not have an appropriate licence;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has undertaken to grant authorisation to the above-mentioned promoters as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine, together with the financial sector institutions, whether and how the necessary (business) funding can be provided to promoters of notifications and non-reporting activities up to the period of authorisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers, Mr Geurts and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u539	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in addition to the scheme, a national termination scheme for livestock farming is being prepared;]] [[noting that, in the case of purchases, the main objective is to remove the nitrogen deposition of livestock farming, and that consideration can also be given to the achievement of ancillary objectives and job evaluation of the land;]] [[Whereas there should be an opportunity to buy up the assets but to leave the land in the possession of selling parties where there is no new nitrogen deposition;]] [[calls on the Government to work with the European Commission to ensure that land purchase does not become a mandatory condition in the national termination scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u540	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in the long-term approach to nitrogen problems, the government is committed to reducing multiple emissions;]] [[Considering the importance for achieving the emission reduction to allow for flexibility and professionalism of the farmer, and the objective of the agricultural farm advisory and education subsidy module is to apply the best appropriate nitrogen measures to the holding;]] [[Whereas there are also above-average grazing farms that use their stables less and achieve low-emission agriculture through management measures, for example by minimising protein input;]] [[Whereas the Chamber with the motion Geurts c.s. (35334, No. 97) requested the development of a system of a check-in dust balance, which would enable targets to be set at company level;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an option to deviate from new or remodelling of low-emission stables, provided that the set standards and targets are met at company level with secured lower-emission business management measures, e.g. within a system of checkable dust balance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Harbers, Mr Geurts, Mr De Groot and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u541	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions and make a few comments. We had a debate on the national development reserve for a while. It is going to listen very closely to what the definitions and the criteria will be. My question remains as to how long the Chamber will be involved in this. We had that debate on carbon leakage and regional nitrogen registers. I am pleased that the Minister said that in early 2021, even before the elections, we will have a first update of this. As a result of this debate, there were reports from people who have been waiting for quite a long time and who say: at some point we also want to know how we are going to proceed. It's gonna be a while before that system is operational. Would the Minister like to comment on whether there is any possibility of such a diffuse slanderer thinking of Urk, but there are still more plans to be drawn up somewhere in time, so that such projects are still possible? If they have to wait all the way to the end of 2021, it will take a long time and they have been waiting for some of those projects with a minimum deposition. The Minister doesn't have to answer that tonight. You can do that in that first letter. Finally, Mr President. Is this law the dream piece of the VVD? Definitely not. In my opinion, this law made everyone have different wishes, but together it is necessary for the law to come about. This is necessary to remove the Netherlands from the lock and to realize that exemption for construction as soon as possible. The whole package we have worked on with a number of parties, which translates into all the amendments, contains things that we would not have thought right, such as a higher ambition in the 1930s, which is not our favourite part. But there are also things that we think are urgently needed to ensure that they are properly regulated. As an example, I would like to mention a good legal anchoring of a solution for the PAS detectors and the exempts. With this higher ambition, we certainly have a better view of permit space. I think it should be done in conjunction with the sector, where it has to come from a lot. With agriculture, we can work on an agricultural agreement in which we also offer long-term prospects for a earning model and financial support. All in all, that's more than enough reason for the VVD to take this step. The nitrogen crisis has lasted long enough for one and a half years, and it is now time to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u542	Thank you. I will see if Mr Moorlag still needs a second term. He did. Then we are going to put Mr Moorlag's chair back up to speed. Go, go, go, go, go, go,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the drawing up of a balance sheet, I would like to pass on an emergency cry from Flevoland. I am getting the signal from Flevoland that Urk's proposed solution would not be sufficient. It is too much in detail to talk about this, but my question to the Minister is whether she would like to discuss this with Urk and Flevoland. The tension is already high enough because of the threat of a no-dealbrexit. Mr. Chairman. I take stock of this debate. There are a number of pluses. There's gonna be a lot of money available for nature. That's an obvious plus. There is a prospect of an agricultural agreement and, I hope, a natural and food agreement. As far as I'm concerned, the Minister can't quickly point out a scout for that. I think that's a plus, too. That's a deep wish of mine. I believe that there is a need for more stable management and a good but also more stable income model for farmers, so that the strangling uncertainty that farmers often find themselves in is reduced. We are going to create better nature and therefore more development space for economy and housing. And for the people in the Netherlands, there will be better and healthier food on the shelves. That would be a real plus. Mr. Chairman. There are also obvious flaws. The biggest problem is that there are insufficient source measures. It simply takes more to get housing going, and more is needed to start economic projects. It cuts me by reading in the answer to the questions in the report that 130 initiatives like birds have flown over the net. It doesn't bother us, because we don't see it, but how many people couldn't get to work? I mentioned the example of the Eemshaven. That's not gonna make billions of investments. If you're going to explain to foreign investors what an ADC test is, it turns out that an impenetrable horde and then they move to other countries. That's really very damaging. I understand the Minister's dilemma. I propose that the phosphate rights should be more generous on sale. She says that this may limit the development opportunities for young agricultural entrepreneurs, but on the other hand it is choosing in scarcity, and living is just a basic need. How many young people are looking for a home? We really need to get this housing going. Mr. Chairman. Can we get more? Yeah, there's more. The Remkes Committee has simply made that quite clear. She has not worked out all this in measures, but she has said what is needed. We should simply look at the source measures and other measures and, with the sense of urgency shown by the Remkes Committee, we should deal with the great task of our country. That's not gonna happen, and I'm sorry about that. I find that sad for our society. I understand Mr Futselaar. I complimented him, too. In this sense, compromise means also suffering pain and taking responsibility. Mr Futselaar says that a moderate law is preferable to no law, but if you look at the urgency of the task, I will conclude with this, President-in-Office of the Council, you will see that the Netherlands simply deserves a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u544	Thank you. Would you mind taking a seat? Mr Harbers has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u545	I'm really gonna catch up. Mr Moorlag has been here all evening to talk about major investments. And the NFIA is watching us drive through this. But let me make the question very small, because Mr Moorlag has already said this afternoon, this evening and just now in his final sentence, that this law is not for him. I'll make it very small. You repeat the question I asked about the port of Urk. Does Mr Moorlag understand that, if this law is not passed, even that very small deposition for Urk simply cannot be arranged? Does he want to look again at whether it is wise to vote against this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u546	In reply, I have a question for Mr Harbers. You can bring the ambitions and percentages more to the level recommended by the Remkes Committee. Those are not irresponsible percentages. That has also been a discussion within the committee. Does Mr Harbers understand that not only will the port of Urk be in safe harbor in terms of permits, but that it will also enable you to realise those other projects that are not being realized now, all those homes that cannot be built now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u547	Mr President, rest assured, I am not going to repeat the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u548	No, I was just gonna say that, because I think we went there a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u549	I was addressed. But this law is really a start. Things are going to be possible again in the coming years. The last thing we need to do now is to wait endlessly for a new and much larger source package to be available to push the law like Mr Moorlag who wants to push the country down the throat. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u550	Mr Moorlag, you may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u551	I can also live very well with a law that is the beginning, but the perspective must be more ambitious than the percentages that are now included in the law. And I'm not alone in that. The Remkes Committee advises it. From the municipalities there is a strong signal that more source measures are needed. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u552	Thank you. Mr De Groot also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u553	When it comes to maintaining jobs and realising projects, which mole is the most important? The first one you pull out or the last one? Let me put it another way: what billion in source measures is the most important? The first or the last?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u554	But here an artificial contradiction is created, because if you go further into the law...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u555	Shh, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u556	I'm about my own answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u557	Absolutely. Please, be my guest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u558	If you include more ambitious percentages later on in the law, then the first billion will simply be spent. Then it is not the case that the first billion is not spent. More billions will have to be spent: billions of resources to create real nitrogen space. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u559	Mr. De Groot, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u560	If you want to guarantee jobs, you're gonna have to start with that first mole as soon as possible. You can do that with this law. This cannot be done with the framework law that is still in force. It's gonna cost jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u561	I am not saying that I am coûte que coûte against this law, but I am opposed to some of the elements of this law. That is simply in the sphere of percentages. I'm not against that at all. An artificial contradiction is being created here that I would not be in favour of going ahead immediately, but it is not. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u562	Finally, Mr Geurts has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u563	I am really getting more and more bewildered: in the second term I refer again to all kinds of projects, to employment and so on, and then I do not want to deliver. I thought the PvdA stood for "Party of Labour," but I now have to conclude that it has become the "Party of Destroy."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u564	Well, if we go on that tour a little bit: I've noticed that the CDA is a little nervous that the populists are getting along with their voters. But I don't think the answer to that is that you're going to be populist too. I'd say shoemaker, stick to your reading. Just be a responsible, administrative party, I would say, with people's representatives who are not so populist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u565	Mr Geurts is not getting nervous at all, but he is concerned about this. I really had a lot more fiduciary in the Labour Party. That fiducie was totally knocked out today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u566	Mr. Moorlag, you may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u567	Mr. Geurts is going to have a cup of coffee with Mrs. Bromet. I'm also willing to have a cup of coffee with him to have a pastoral conversation. By the way, it is good that I was interrupted, because I have not yet read my motions and my second term would have been over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u568	That's pretty much it! Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u569	I have two more motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u570	That's in the trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u571	And I also have speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u572	It's a law, so in itself you do have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u573	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in view of the large housing shortage, it is unacceptable that housing stagnates due to insufficient permit space;]] [[calls on the government to consult the municipalities, the umbrella organisations of housing organisations and builders in order to draw up a concrete and manageable plan to accelerate the reduction of nitrogen emissions in order to accelerate housing within a very short period of time and to report to the Chamber on this within three months at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u574	Then my second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a large number of initiatives to establish and expand businesses are stagnating or even being cancelled because there is insufficient licence space;]] [[Considering the loss of opportunities for economic growth and job creation and sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the umbrella organisations of employers, port companies, provinces and municipalities with larger industrial clusters in the short term and to make a concrete and manageable plan with measures and facilities to accelerate the reduction of nitrogen emissions, and to report to the Court within three months at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u575	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For us, this is a black day. I have already said that the whole of nature policy and the whole way of taking nitrogen rights away have been redistributed and skimmed. It's so complicated. I spoke to a couple of farmers yesterday. They have to hire a lawyer to make their application because their PAS-report has become so complicated. When you hear all this all day, you think: we are almost becoming a kind of regulatory dictatorship in the Netherlands, while in a few countries not far from here farmers are still being welcomed with a lot of gifts and subsidies that we pay. I think that in Ukraine, for example, they are not so difficult; they will not bully the farmers away, but they will still be carried on hand. The Netherlands is facing a very bleak time with this law. This is particularly true of all those young farmers who see their future becoming completely uncertain. I thank Mr Futselaar for noticing that I stayed all evening, albeit with curved toes; that is what he must have seen from me. I have been an entrepreneur myself and I have often been obstructed in all kinds of nice plans. When you see where this country is going with this law, I think: those poor, agricultural entrepreneurs and other entrepreneurs. 'Cause this is really not funny anymore. I am afraid that the Netherlands will suffer enormous damage by doing this to itself. I'm sorry to see that. We will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u576	Thank you. As next speaker from the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u577	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed not the ideal law. There is much to comment on, but if the amendments and a number of motions that have been tabled are accepted, it is, in our opinion, ultimately a law that will at least enable you to get rid of both the agricultural sector and other sectors in which things, developments, developments, get stuck. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions in a thorough manner. The same goes for the staff that supports her. I would also like to confine myself to reading out three motions and, of course, submitting them. First of all, a motion concerning the interim workers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are a number of activities that started or expanded before the Habitats Directive was properly implemented in the Dutch law, and therefore do not have a lawful authorisation decision (interimmers);]] [[Whereas:]] [[interim workers must apply for a permit;]] [[the consequences of not having an appropriate authorisation may be significant;]] [[there are initiators who have not made use of the possibilities of obtaining a permit under the PAS;]] [[initiators after regulatory implementation by the competent authority have not always been reminded of the need for a nature permit and the opportunities to obtain it;]] [[invites the Government, together with the provinces, to make clear as soon as possible what options "internmers" have in order to obtain an appropriate permit application,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Geurts, Mr Harbers, Mr De Groot and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u578	Then there is the motion on the agricultural agreement, to which the Minister referred. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is important for the agricultural sector, as in the FoodValley with sector and chain parties, banks, relevant civil society organisations and regional authorities, to agree on, inter alia:]] [[the implementation and financing of source measures in the nitrogen reduction and nature improvement programme;]] [[development and recognition of emission reduction techniques and management methods, and the necessary experimental space for this;]] [[company-specific monitoring and statement of emissions and the introduction of a check-out substance balance;]] [[a earning model for emission reduction and other sustainability measures;]] [[the marketing of new concepts;]] [[introduction of levies on products whose yield is used for sustainability;]] [[the deployment of blue-green services;]] [[investment opportunities (long-term) for farmers for future-oriented operations;]] [[clarity on issues such as nitrogen, water quality, climate and biodiversity;]] [[the area for regional initiatives and processes;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to reach such agreements in the foreseeable future with a view to an integrated approach and clarity, space and an economic and ecologically sustainable future for the many family farms in the agricultural sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u579	Then there's the third motion. That's a "red for red" motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the voluntary buying-in of agricultural holdings creates opportunities for the re-use of land released;]] [[noting that in some cases the so-called red-for-red mode can contribute to the vitality of the rural area and to reducing housing shortages;]] [[noting that there are many insights in provinces and municipalities on how to use the red-for-red method in a good way;]] [[Whereas it is important that municipalities, provinces and the Empire cooperate well in the nitrogen approach, particularly with regard to the re-use of released land and the possible deployment of the red-for-red method;]] [[Whereas this cooperation will become even more important if the ground fund pilot approach is achieved;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the provinces and municipalities to unlock and exploit all their existing knowledge of the red-for-red mode of operation in the re-use of land released from the voluntary buy-back of agricultural enterprises;]] [[calls on the Government to cooperate closely with provinces and municipalities in order to provide farmers as joint authorities with clarity on the (un) possibilities for red-for-red working in case they wish to make use of a voluntary buy-back scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u580	And I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u581	Do you know what Rule 66 of our Rules of Procedure states, Mr Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u582	Not completely memorized.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u583	I'm gonna tell you. "Shall a motion be formulated briefly and clearly." And that's always a challenge, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u584	I understand that. I have made an attempt to match a motion once tabled by one of the colleagues present here and which was much longer. But I couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u585	Oh, look, you're trying hard, may I tell you. Then I look at Mr De Groot. I hear Mr Bishop saying that I must pay close attention. Yes, I will. Are you gonna win or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u586	Mr President, I am going to put your Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u587	Article 66, p. 24! Go ahead, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u588	...to some kind of violence. But I will keep my input brief and I have only one motion. Thank you to the Minister for replying. It's a good day, not necessarily for nature, because nature isn't doing well yet, but we do have the beginning of a solution. And it's also a good day because the economy can start again. D66 is a party with great ideals, and of course they are very close to Remkes' report. They're moving on, too. But this is also a country in which you take steps with each other and compromise. With this dossier, this is a step that we can really get to work. The ambition will be increased in 2035, a good intermediate step will be taken and implementation will be strengthened. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[livestock farms near Natura 2000 sites directly cause or could cause a relatively high nitrogen load in these areas;]] [[these Natura 2000 sites have nitrogen-sensitive nature;]] [[the largest livestock holdings in this group are likely to cause or cause significant nitrogen load;]] [[there are two schemes in the nitrogen approach that allow voluntary cessation of the operation of these livestock farms;]] [[one of these schemes is currently implemented by the provinces;]] [[Whereas:]] [[stopping livestock farmers near Natura 2000 sites reduce the nitrogen impact on Natura 2000 sites by ending the business activity at the site;]] [[the nitrogen approach has arrangements for voluntary termination aimed at doing so;]] [[targeted buying-out of livestock farms causing the relatively highest load is cost-effective for reducing nitrogen deposition;]] [[it is desirable and possible to make additional efforts to reach these large livestock farms near Natura 2000 sites;]] [[the current system of targeted buying-in takes over the production rights of the quitting livestock farmer and, in addition, excludes the continuation of a purchased livestock holding in another place;]] [[This may constitute an obstacle for the farmer to participate in the targeted buy-in;]] [[a possible re-launch of a livestock farmer at another location offers opportunities for further sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to take targeted action, together with the provinces, to approach the largest slanderers near Natura 2000 sites for the purchase of the holding;]] [[evaluate the results obtained in the first tranche and, on that basis, allow the relocation of a holding in the second and third tranches on condition that an existing holding with animal rights is taken over and that substantial emission reductions are made;]] [[to remove the stopping ban from the scheme in the second tranche;]] [[examine the willingness of livestock farmers, including those who cause the greatest burden on Natura 2000 sites, to stop or relocate their farms;]] [[develop possibilities to facilitate relocation in conjunction with a termination scheme;]] [[to include its proceeds in the structural package in order to legalise, in any case, the reporting-free activities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u589	Dear members, we have a winner!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u590	Thank you and once again thank you to the Minister and colleagues of the 50PLUS, SP and SGP groups for their intensive and ultimately fruitful cooperation in the last few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u591	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u592	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion, a short one, because I have left it to my colleagues for a very long time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in coastal provinces there is a complex situation where there is little influence on the nitrogen deposition from the sea but there are also limited possibilities for source measures and/or compensation;]] [[Whereas the coastal provinces face major challenges in housing, maritime and industrial matters and these developments are important for the Netherlands and the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways of intensifying source measures for coastal provinces such as a strong commitment to shore power supply and the shift of shipping routes in the North Sea, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u593	Then I can conclude by saying that it is rare to find an ideal solution in this Chamber, but in our opinion this is the best way to achieve a start-up of housing in the short term, the detachment of the economy and a way out of the corona crisis for the economy. By the way, when I hear the debate here in the Chamber, I come to the next thought. Mr Madlener mentioned a black scenario, but I do not know exactly what that black scenario is. One shouts: nothing happens to the peasants. The other calls out: the peasants disappear. "Nothing happens to nature" or "too much happens to nature." We simply have to take steps and at least we have dared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u594	Thank you. Then I shall skip Mr Baudet, because I do not see him anymore. Then I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and all the officials, who have also worked very hard on this issue, for all the work they have done on this bill and for answering all the questions that have been asked today. I would like to use this second term of the debate to table two motions. I have one final word, if you'll allow me. My motions aren't too long. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that land may also become available in the case of voluntary buying-in of agricultural holdings;]] [[Whereas the re-use of this released land is important for the vitality of the rural area, provides opportunities for the intensification of keepers or can provide an impetus for nature;]] [[Whereas this land released can also contribute to reducing housing shortages;]] [[whereas land is very expensive, but it also produces money when reselling;]] [[Whereas it is important to address the urgent nitrogen approach, accelerate housing and promote vitality of rural areas in a coherent manner;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to start on a small scale so that it can prove itself useful to all concerned;]] [[calls on the government to launch a "land fund for nitrogen" approach using a loan facility of 100 million from the Agricultural Land Management Office to acquire land released from voluntary purchases of agricultural enterprises and to sell for re-use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr De Groot, Mr Bishop and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u596	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that provinces have an important role to play in implementing the nitrogen reducing source measures and that close cooperation with the Empire is indispensable;]] [[noting that provinces have multiple tasks that come together in their territories and that synergies can be achieved;]] [[Whereas a number of provinces, such as Gelderland and North Brabant, have developed a vigorous nitrogen approach, taking the role as regional director of agreements with sectors and civil society organisations;]] [[Considering that there are opportunities to make concrete agreements with provinces in the short term and to take major steps in effectively reducing nitrogen emissions and deposition, improving nature and providing perspective for (agricultural) (family) companies;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up agreements with provinces that are ahead of their territorial approach and take additional nitrogen reducing measures, and to actively support these provinces in making area-specific tailor-made concrete,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35600-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u597	I too would like to take this opportunity to thank colleagues from SP, 50PLUS and SGP for their constructive cooperation in recent days. I am extremely pleased that there is a legislative proposal here that will really bring the builders, but also nature, forward. I think that's important. It was an intensive journey, but hopefully we can end it well together in this way. Since I am also the last speaker in the second term of the Chamber, I thought it might be good to end with a brief closure. For that I found a prayer from Laudato Si'. I'd like to recite that. It's very short. "Cease our lives, that we may be protectors of the world, and not predators, that we may sow beauty, neither pollution, nor destruction. Touch the hearts of those who seek profit only at the cost of the earth and the poor. Learn to discover the value of every thing, to regard it with admiration and to acknowledge that we are deeply one with all creatures on our way to your infinite light." This also seemed to me to be an appropriate day closure, even in the light of Christmas, which is coming. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u598	Thank you. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 11:25 p.m. Then the Minister can quietly read the motions. She's gonna need a little time. Then she can give them an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u599	I would like to give the floor to the Minister, who will answer a number of questions, who will give an appreciation to 22 motions and the amendments will pass. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u600	Fine. First of all, the questions. Mr Geurts specifically asked in what article the time limit for granting the authorization is in. It's in article 5.3 of the Nature Protection Act. So he knows exactly what he's doing. Mr Geurts then had questions about the amendment to item No. 25, but I'll just answer the questions here. It is a question of whether it can be promoted that data be made available and whether this amendment has a financial impact on the provinces. I'll start with the question about the dates. As a competent authority, the provinces themselves have data to grant and manage permits. Nevertheless, I am prepared to see how we can unlock any data they may need. The second point is whether this has any financial implications for the provinces. For the financial consequences of the higher ambitions, the provinces are not at stake. Then the question of the VVD. At what time will the Chamber be involved in the criteria used for the national development reserve? The VVD also asked a question about the diffuse taxers in the regional nitrogen registration system. I have promised that I will inform the Parliament before the elections, so at the beginning of 2021, about the regional nitrogen registration system. I would therefore suggest that you should be right in that note, because that is what I think it will be to inform him about the state of play with regard to the points of the criteria. I'm gonna have to see how far we're at that moment. I think those were the questions. Mr Moorlag asked if we would contact the province of Flevoland about the Maritime Service Port on Urk. I can tell you that we have already had very frequent contact with the province of Flevoland about this case. We still have that contact, so that runs. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. I'm going through it fast, even considering the time. The motion in part No. Twenty-seven, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 28, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Twenty-nine, I'm not sure. Then the motion to part No. 30. I just need to tell you how I'm reading this motion. The motion contains three elements. I'd like to read it as follows. It is a request for the follow-up of the recommendation of the Hordijk Advisory Council to apply a model ensemble. It is a request to identify alternatives to the use of the KDW in the review framework, and it is a request to make a cost-benefit analysis of the investments required under the nitrogen approach to comply with the Birds and Habitats Directives and the economic benefits that this entails. If I can read her like that, I can give her judgment room. I have one comment to make. The analysis of the alternatives to the KDW can come around the summer of 2021. But making the cost-benefit analysis takes at least one and a half years, because this analysis is really large. I can't make that analysis any faster, because it's a really big job. That is the consequence of this motion. But if Mr Geurts is aware that this is the way it is going, then I will give judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u601	What can't be done before then, I have to respect. So that's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u602	Then the motion to part No. 31: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 32: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 33: Judgment Room. At the motion in part No. 34 I'll give you a little explanation. I just started an investigation into the KPIs. I could take this suggestion into account in that ongoing investigation. I would like to point out that this indicator is not suitable for all companies, for example because the companies have no land. So we also look at other indicators, such as ammonia per LU. We'll take that with us. If that's okay with you, I can give this motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 35 is the motion we just had that talk about the locations. I'll give the motion judgment room. The same applies to the motion in part No. Thirty-six on the neighborhoods. The motion in part No. 37: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 38 I can also give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 39 I can give judgment Chamber. On the motion in part No. 39 I would like to say that adopting this law is still the best way to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u603	Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u604	I mean the motion in part no. 40!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u605	Item No. 40, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u606	But as the motion has now been formulated, I must discourage her. The same applies to the motion in part No. 41. That's what I'm telling you. The motion in part No. 42 I can give judgment Chamber. So it is true that it is the interim workers for the PAS period. Let me just say that, because the others have already been included in the amendment. The interim workers must indeed apply for a licence, and I therefore think it is important that their options for action are reflected in this. I will take that up with the provinces when this motion is adopted. The motion in part No. 43 on the agricultural agreement - that is what I call the Court's judgment in the walkway. The motion in part No. 44 I can also give judgment Chamber. I also checked with the BZK colleague. The motion in part No. 45 can also get judgment room. The same applies to the motion in part No. 46, asking to see what is still possible for the coastal provinces. The motion in part No. 47 I can give judgment room. That is the motion on what I just call the sliding facility and on making the ground possible. We discussed it in the debate. The motion in part No. 48 I can give judgment room. Mr President, I think I am through the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u607	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u608	Then we shall move on quickly to the amendments. Take a good look at the songs, because there is a number. If I'm wrong, you're gonna have to step in, but I think I've got them in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u609	The staff has now given me the complete overview. So I'll watch with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u610	The amendment in part No. 10 calls for an even more far-reaching objective. We have adopted it until 2035 and I therefore advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 11 is about a higher environmental value for 2030. We have dealt with this adequately in the debate and I therefore advise against this amendment. The cabinet has its own approach in the Nature Programme and I therefore advise against the amendment to item No. 12. The amendment in part No. 13 is about reporting. We have already included an approach and a systematic approach in the legislative proposal. That is also the subject of a report, and that is why I do not recommend this amendment. The amendment in part No. 14 is about the perspective for 2035. We have had a debate on this and I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Let me now turn to the amendments that have been replaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u611	Yes, the amendment to item No. 15 has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u612	And the amendment to item No. 16 has been replaced, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u613	That's part No. 20 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u614	So I'll deal with that amendment later. The amendment in part No. 17 is about taking account of economic and social requirements. I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. The same goes for the amendment on item No. 18. We have already discussed this in detail in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u615	The hardness clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u616	Yes. That amendment I can give Chamber judgment. The amendment in part No. 19 is the PAS detector amendment, and I can also give Chamber judgment on that amendment. The amendment in part No. 20 is about a light front suspension procedure. This is regulated by the Environmental Law, but not by the Nature Protection Act. That is why I can leave the amendment to the Chamber. The environmental values. That is what I call intermediate objectives, the intermediate objectives amendment. I can also leave that judgment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 24 is about phosphate rights. We talked about that. I would advise against this amendment. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on This is the provincial amendment that Mr Geurts has just asked me about. With this explanatory statement, I can also leave this amendment to the House's discretion. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council It is a rather special figure to ride hare and rabbit in this discussion. It is allowed; you can always do that, but we have not had a debate on this at all. There are indeed some parliamentary questions that need to be answered, but if Mr Wassenberg and Mrs Ouwehand want to put the amendment to the vote now, I would advise against it. I think that's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u617	I'll take a look at the clerk, because no. 23 looks like another one. Or did we not understand that correctly? Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u618	No. 23 is intact. The amendment in part No. 26 replaces No. 22. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u619	Then we must have an appreciation of the amendment to item No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u620	I can put a question to the Minister, because I believe those questions were asked on 6 November. That was five weeks ago tomorrow. I have already come back to that in the agriculture budget. Then the Minister said: the answers are coming soon. They went, as was already stated in an earlier letter from the minister, about hare and rabbit. Can the Minister indicate when these questions will be answered? Is that before next Tuesday's votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u621	Mr. Chairman. They are still within the time limit in which I am allowed to reply, so I cannot quite see whether that will be exactly for those votes. I don't know yet. I will try to answer them within the time limit, but I cannot yet judge whether that is in time for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u622	For the sake of clarity, the amendment to item No. 22 is therefore replaced by Amendment No 22. 26. And no. 23 about hare and rabbit is still a separate one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u623	Yes. The amendment in part No. 22, I think it's about... let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u624	That's the replacement for No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u625	Mr. Chairman. No. 22 no longer exists. That's no. 26 years old. We're talking 23 and 26. No. 22 is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u626	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u627	But they're both asking about hare and rabbit. I also see placement on the red list. The amendment in part No. 23 wants to delete hare and rabbit from the wild list. I'd advise against that. And the amendment to item No. 26 is more generic about the red list. Let's see. That is too general, and I would advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u628	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u629	Mr. Chairman. I think that was the end of this long, long debate and the long process we have gone through. I said at the beginning of the debate that I would like to thank all those who have just been working intensively along this path. Whether you finally come to the conclusion that you are for or against this law, I really appreciate the fact that the parties are going to look into the matter and ask questions to discuss how to proceed here. However, I note that this bill can now be adopted widely in this House of Representatives. I think that is not so much good for the cabinet or whatever, but it is especially good for society. That is what we are here for, to make decisions of this kind, and I am grateful that this law has succeeded in doing so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u630	Thank you. I thank the Minister, I thank the Members. I have noticed that there has been a great deal of interest this evening in the debate and actually all day long. So I would also like to thank all the viewers, who have expressed themselves very deeply because it was quite something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-11.u631	We are going to vote on this law, the motions and the amendments next Tuesday.
