ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Foreign Affairs budget (35570-V). The first term of office will take place today. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to discuss the following six topics today: China, Taiwan, Pakistan, Turkey, the Abraham Accords and the International Criminal Court. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with China. No one could have seen during the previous budget treatment, i.e. in autumn 2019, that the year 2020 would be held hostage by the corona virus. However, at that time, at the end of 2019, the virus had probably already jumped on humans. This may have happened in October 2019. After all, there was a security incident in a laboratory in Wuhan, a laboratory that investigated coronaviruses. A few months later, at least, there was a pandemic and a global crisis. You'd expect everything to be done to determine the cause. You would expect the lower stone to be lit up to find the origin of the first virus particles. But no, for the past year, we've seen the opposite. China caused confusion from the first infection, confusion over figures, confusion about the severity of the virus and confusion about its origin. China threw American journalists out of the country when they asked questions about it. The Chinese doctors who stood in the front line were silenced. The hope for a credible and transparent investigation into the source of that coronavirus was thus buried at the same time as the first coronas victims. There is now an investigation by the WHO, the World Health Organisation, but I think that research is a farce. It was prepared by a research team that consisted of two people. Two! Two researchers for a pandemic that has already resulted in more than a million deaths worldwide! Those researchers didn't even visit Wuhan himself, the epicentre of the pandemic. The follow-up research will be led by only Chinese scientists. It will take place according to only Chinese instructions. If you refer to the World Health Organisation, the WHO, as a false orchestra, then the Chinese Communist Party is clearly the conductor of it. It is insane and not acceptable that this Chinese malpractice has been able to put our economy, our country, into chaos without punishment. I therefore believe that the Netherlands should find out whether it can hold China liable, perhaps together with other countries such as the United States. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Or is China apparently untouchable and is the Netherlands just waiting for another new virus to come out of China, after we have already had SARS and COVID-19? I'll get to Taiwan. China acts like a multifaceted Chinese dragon who wants to swallow us by 2049. We need to focus on that and stay focused on it, including military. The latter also underlined NATO boss Stoltenberg in his speech on the future of NATO. We need to focus on how China develops. Slotenberg said that we need to step up military cooperation with like-minded countries. He mentioned countries like Australia, New Zealand, Japan and South Korea. That's a message the PVV can totally agree with. But what does the cabinet actually do with this call? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I would like to see Taiwan added to the list of countries I just mentioned. Taiwan is a democratic bastion, a rule of law, a state with 23 million inhabitants, where the Netherlands now has considerable economic interests. There is also a safety concern. The United States also sees this and has intensified cooperation with Taiwan. The Americans are going to export more weapons to Taiwan, like the MQ-9-drone. I think the Netherlands should follow that American line. Now the Netherlands is cutting its fingers ugly. We regard Taiwan as a democracy, wrongly, I do not think, as a full-fledged country and still hinder Dutch arms exports to Taiwan. Taiwan is indeed interested in Dutch radars, but the arms embargo we now have against Taiwan prevents the sale of Dutch radar systems to Taiwan. All this leads to an absurd situation, namely that this cabinet does not sell radar systems to Taiwan democracy, but to Pakistan. How can the Minister explain that? We have weapons systems for a nasty Islamofascist country, but not for a democratic rule of law. That's the question. I think this is wrong. While we're talking about Pakistan, here's what we're talking about. A long time ago, a request for legal aid to Pakistan was issued by the Dutch justice system. This involved the imam Rizvi, who had released a fatwa with which he called for the murder of Geert Wilders. Rizvi did that not only in that fatwa, but also in videos he put on the internet and in which he called for the throat slitting of Wilders. It seems that this request for legal aid has not been dealt with in Pakistan. Despite reappearance by justice in the Netherlands and also by our ambassador in Islamabad, Pakistan remained deaf to East India. The only thing that can help now is that our Foreign Minister or our Prime Minister, at the highest level, is exerting pressure at the highest level in Pakistan to fully implement that request for legal aid and to fully inform the Netherlands about it. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Turkey. Complicated, complicated. For example, the relationship with Turkey is often mentioned by Dutch rulers. The Foreign Minister said it two weeks ago during Question Time after Erdogan reported it to my party leader Geert Wilders. I'd say, Minister, personally, you're against making that report by Erdogan against Geert Wilders. If the Minister wants to do everything he can, I ask him to do so. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The relationship with Turkey is really not complicated at all. It is actually quite simple: Turkey is a rogue state that is associated with terrorists, who wage wars and who de facto annex those areas illegally. We shouldn't be complicated about that at all. Turkey simply needs to be dealt with in a simple and hard way. First and foremost, military. The Netherlands must publicly state that there is no place for Turkey in NATO. It is not an ally of ours; it has become increasingly clear. Politically, the Netherlands should not only want to suspend the EU's accession talks with Turkey, but to stop them permanently. Those conversations have no future. Can the government also agree to the end of the customs union between Turkey and the EU? Thirdly, economic. Economically, the Netherlands should promote strong sanctions against Turkey wherever possible. That is why I want to see action by this cabinet on the three points I have just mentioned. I'm asking the Minister to respond by section. Then the role of Turkey in relation to the war against Artsach, also known as Nagorno-Karabakh. Turkey flies terrorists from Syria to fight for Azerbaijan and hits that country to win the total victory. This joint action by Turkey and Azerbaijan is completely contrary to the process of reaching a peaceful solution through negotiation. Those negotiations have, as you can say, been declared deadly by the behaviour of Turkey and Azerbaijan. So there is every reason to move on to two steps. Firstly, sanctions against the President of Azerbaijan cum suis and, secondly, Azerbaijan from the Council of Europe and not a partnership with the European Union. On these points, too, I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a present for the Minister that I would like to offer him through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u4	I thought it was a present for me. But that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u5	It is a mockery that shows that Mr Erdogan has a fundamentalist Islamic signature. I ask the Minister if he would like to put that cartoon in his office, so that every day he is reminded of what Erdogan's signature is and that we must take firm action against what Erdogan is doing in the world for disaster. I'm offering this to the minister through the chairman. You'll have it later, Minister. Then I'll get to the Abraham Accords. For decades, Dutch politicians have been pretending to know how to resolve conflicts in the Middle East, but it took a property magnate in the White House to achieve a historic diplomatic breakthrough. President Trump has created a peace treaty between three countries and Israel. Also, more and more countries are moving their embassy to the only real capital of Israel, namely Jerusalem. That a misguided real estate magnate achieves what Dutch politicians fail to achieve, perhaps explains the uncomfortable silence that I observed here in the Netherlands after reaching those Abraham agreements, because I did not really hear any reactions from politics, even from the government. But we can break that silence if we all express our unconditional support for these historic agreements in the House of Representatives today. I shall table a motion to that effect. Then we can see who's behind it. Mr. Chairman. I now turn specifically to the Minister, who has once again ignored a request from the Chamber, it seems, and who is not helping Israel diplomatically, but is countering it. The Netherlands voted last week in favour of the UN decolonisation committee for six of the seven anti-Israeli resolutions. The PVV finds this particularly worrying, not only because it ignores a request from the Chamber not to participate in this type of practice, but also because the Minister apparently has no control or control over his left-wing pro-Palestinian officials. Why else does this go wrong over and over again? Can the Minister explain that? Finally, President, the International Criminal Court. A little over a year ago, the Foreign Minister stood up for the International Criminal Court in an opinion document in a large American newspaper. Now it turns out the minister actually took it up for a pigsty. The 348 pages of the final report entitled Independent Expert Review of the International Criminal Court and the Rome Statute simply show this. That court is full of corrupt judges. Employees are guilty of harassment and sexual abuse. It is not war criminals that are being dealt with very hard by this court, but mostly female workers. Especially female interns aren't safe there. They must fear the predator behavior of their male colleagues. That court, which in my opinion produced only four sentences in the eighteen years of its existence, is an even bigger failure than the PVV thought. Then the judges. According to the report, they have insufficient legal capacity, have employees do all the work and do not complete business themselves. What do they do well, you wonder. Well, they hardly have a research file in their hands, but they do have a big rake to rake in more money on their private bank accounts. Because instead of suing criminals, they are mainly suing for more of their own salary. Instead of €175, they want to earn €220,000 per year; net, well understood. The President of that International Criminal Court, with a number of his colleagues, is seeking a pay increase of €220,000 net and is going to sue his own court for this, even though very little work is being done. It's just shameless. How insane do you even want it? That's crazy, isn't it? That has to end; that has to stop. It is simply embarrassing, I think, that this court is based in the Netherlands, even in The Hague, with which our government likes to show off as the world capital of justice. That court is just a stain on The Hague and a stain on our land. A corrupt and non-performing court does not belong in the Netherlands. We shouldn't want that at all. Does the Minister agree with me? Can the Minister respond to those devastating conclusions of that report by accusation as shown in the report? I would also like to know whether, as is claimed, there is indeed some kind of tacit agreement between the various countries not to discredit the Court and thus to bring it as little as possible into the publicity. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, I would like to know whether, even before this report came out, our government had known any signs of undesirable situations in that court. If so, what signals were these and what has our Minister done with them? So much for my input, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you. Mr Koopmans has a question. Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u7	I hear Mr De Roon say a lot of angry things on behalf of the PVV about a number of aggressive countries. I also hear him saying very angry things about an organization that is fighting war criminals. But I can't hear him talking about Russia at all. Just two weeks ago, my colleague André Bosman, together with me, tabled a motion for which the entire Chamber, with the exception of the PVV and Forum for Democracy, voted in favour: we must maintain sanctions against Russia as long as Russia does not meet the conditions for lifting, as long as Russia continues its aggressive actions. Why did the PVV, almost alone, not vote for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u8	That motion is good for the politically correct feeling. It is good for the stage, but it is not really good, because Russia is not doing anything with that motion. On the contrary, they're just laughing at us right in the face. They are not at all impressed by these sanctions. They're just gonna keep going. That motion is a rag for them. It is precisely the desire to maintain that motion that shows how powerless that motion is in the light of everything that is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u9	If Russia were to laugh, it would be because the PVV is the only one saying: well, it doesn't have to. But Russia is responsible for annexing Crimea, for illegally taking over a part of other people's country, for trying to kill Mr. Skripal and his family with novichok, for probably doing something with Mr. Navalny. We still need to see the evidence, but we need to hear the answers. Together, we have held Russia liable so that it gives answers about the tragedy with the MH17. And now the PVV is the only one who says: well, forget it, let's get back together with Russia. Why? Why won't the PVV say anything about Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. De Roon. The interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u11	Yeah, I hope so. The sanctions referred to by Mr Koopmans were imposed on the annexation of Crimea, not on all the other things mentioned here by Mr Koopmans, such as novichok and more. None of them had anything to do with that. Also MH17 had nothing to do with the imposition of those sanctions. Those sanctions were not imposed for that purpose, only for the annexation of Crimea. We know that Russia is simply not going to give Crimea back. You can jump high, you can jump low, but that motion of yours remains a powerless rag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u12	It is quite clear that Mr De Roon is not getting out of this at all. He simply cannot explain why his party voted against this motion, why his party opposes the extension of sanctions against Russia. He can't explain it. And I get that, too. I would like to ask Mr De Roon the following. Suppose someone is tried in the Netherlands because he killed someone; he is sentenced to 20 years; after ten years the person is asked if he would do it again and that person says "yes." Mr De Roon then says: then the whole prison sentence is useless; then release the person, because it just doesn't make any sense. That is not the attitude Mr De Roon would have, is it? So I ask Mr De Roon here and now: take back that position and support those sanctions against Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u13	The comparison made by the D66 spokesperson here is completely flawed. You can't compare those two things at all. That motion you have tabled with a number of other parties, or at least supported by a number of other parties, remains a forceless rag. That motion won't work, it won't work, it won't work. So get rid of the motion, because you're just being ridiculous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u14	We know that as soon as the PVV's move towards the fence and swear words, the arguments are gone. We, this Chamber, are not fools here. This whole Chamber supported the motion. There is a great consensus in Europe. The person who puts himself on the outside of the debate, who is isolated here, who shows himself here a friend of Russia, of Putin and of all the crazy things they do, is Mr De Roon, the PVV, Mr Wilders, with his friendship pin. That's not us. So I ask Mr De Roon again: why do you want to abolish these sanctions? Why do you want to reward Putin for taking Crimea? Why are you afraid to look into the eyes of the MH17's next of kin? What's the reason for that? Tell me the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u15	First of all, I should like to say that I did not use a language of fence, as Mr Sjoerdsma suggests. That's not the point. I actually want that general politically correct consensus that prevails here in the Chamber, but which does not seem to have any meaning, not to lead to any more weird motions. The fact that your thinking is shared elsewhere in Europe shows above all that there must also be a sense of political correctness in Europe, whereas that political correctness cannot and will not have any effect. Then you have to stop and then you have to come up with something else. I'm not a friend of Russia, as you suggest. None of that is on the table. But if you have anything against Russia...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u16	No, Mr. Sjoerdsma, Mr. Voordewind is so. No, Mr. Sjoerdsma!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u17	If you want action to be taken against Russia, I await the D66 proposals. I will judge them by their qualities. If it's okay, I'll agree. If it's not good or pointless, I'll say we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u18	It is remarkable that Mr De Roon is making a very strong speech about Turkey. He says that the Netherlands must make a call to get Turkey out of NATO. Mr De Roon probably knows that this is complicated, but he still has firm terms about it. He knows that these proposals will probably not lead to great support in Europe or in the world, but he says so. That's good, because we agree with him. But why doesn't he say that about Russia? Why doesn't he say that about Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u19	I just said to the previous interrupter or interrupter, I have to say, come up with good proposals on how Russia should be dealt with. Nor are we happy with everything Russia does. If good proposals can be devised, we will be happy to assess them on their merits. We may therefore be in agreement with the proposer of these proposals and we will support such a proposal. But it's gonna have to turn out. In any case, the PVV believes that it is totally pointless to submit and adopt a totally powerless motion. They don't even use that motion in Russia as toilet paper. I can tell you that. They don't care at all. So what exactly are you trying to achieve with such a powerless motion? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u20	This has been repeated a few times. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u21	I won't go into that further, but I'm surprised at it, because sometimes you have to go through with motions and you have to keep going. Above all, you have to act as a room. This isn't helping. My question is this. Mr De Roon has listed a number of measures against Turkey. He didn't mention an arms embargo. We may table a motion on that point, along with the coalition. Will Mr De Roon support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u22	Speaking of a motion, the debate has yet to take place. Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u23	I'm not going to respond to a motion that has yet to be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr De Roon spoke with a striking statement about a motion which was widely supported by the Chamber. I wonder why. You can just say you don't agree. Apparently, that's not enough. It's a rag. We're embarrassed. I heard him say all that. I wonder where that aggression towards this motion came from. If he also feels that things are not going well in Russia, and if he thinks what we are doing is worthless, then come up with something yourself. What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u25	The PVV has said this many times: we need to get back to talking to Russia, at all levels, including parliamentary. I'm afraid that last time didn't work out. But it has to be done. If we're in conversation, you might be able to achieve more than that powerless rag that's in there right now. I have no intention of speaking aggressively about this motion, by the way. My intention is to be very clear about the fact that it is a powerless thing that will not have any effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u26	That too has changed enough with others, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u27	Of course, I could now say that what Mr De Roon has come up with as an alternative to what the Chamber wants is very, very powerless and weak and I know a lot of what sounds in the ears. I won't. My question at first was as follows. Mr De Roon says that he did not mean it aggressively, but I think he speaks with a striking dedain about this view of a large part of the Chamber. I was just wondering why that is. Who's he trying to prove to with this? That's actually what I'd like to ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u28	I want to show that a motion has been tabled and passed without force. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u29	You have another question, Mr. Van Helvert? There have been enough questions about the motion. You just get a repeat of answers and questions. So maybe you have a whole new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yeah, maybe another point. We do notice that the PVV is poorly informed. The PVV says that the sanctions do not affect Russia. Of course, that's not true. They hurt pretty bad in Russia. In fact, if it had not been for the sanctions, perhaps Russia would have gone even further than where it has now been. So they're absolutely in the mood. It is also good that they are preserved. This indicates that the PVV is not well informed. Now that this is the case after this interruption, I would like to ask the PVV: if, according to the PVV, sanctions were not the cure, what would be the means to get Putin and Russia back into the loft? The PVV is not happy with how Russia acts either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr Van Helvert is now speculating on what Russia would have done if no sanction had been imposed on the annexation of Crimea. That is, of course, pure speculation. You don't know what would have happened. Neither do I, but neither do you. So that argument doesn't make any sense at the moment. It can only be that you fear something. Then you just have to say that you are afraid that Russia will do more. Then you may have a point, but throwing this right here in the conversation doesn't make any sense. What are we supposed to do? Talk to Russia. That conversation must and will be quite firm at times, but it must also be an outstretched hand to Russia. Because the atmosphere that has now been created towards Russia is really not going to take us any further, until perhaps one day the entire regime is brought down and a super-democratic state-of-the-art government comes to power. Do you see it happening? I'm afraid that won't happen for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u32	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u33	We should definitely have a conversation. Especially with people you don't agree with, you need to have a conversation. Let us therefore be transparent about this, because we know that the chairman of the PVV group has also been to Russia and had talks there. But what exactly was discussed there? We see that the result of the visit and the discussion of the leader of the PVV group is that the PVV should not say anything, but nothing negative about Russia anymore. Then what's the deal? The PVV says nothing negative about Russia, but what did the PVV get in return? After all, we know the PVV as strong negotiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u34	The irony of Mr Van Helvert's input does not escape me. But I must say, of course, that I have not been to the talks of my group leader in Moscow. As far as I know, he hasn't been to Putin either. I can tell you that, but that's all I know about it. It's all been said. We all know. So those questions of yours aren't gonna work either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you for your contribution. I now turn to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dutch people are hit by foreign countries. There's a lot of insecurity coming from abroad right now. We're thinking terrorism. We've seen it very close, and people are worried here, too. We are also thinking of the wars that we see near us, and of the possible flows of refugees and also the illegal migration that result from them. On the other hand: abroad also brings us a lot of good. Some one-third of our employment results from our business with abroad. The Dutch also very much like to go if Corona would allow the weather on vacation abroad. Many Dutch live abroad as well. And that is why, for all these reasons, foreign policy is extremely important to us. But then we must also think very carefully about what foreign policy should be about. Now I'm going to say something that isn't said enough here, I guess. That is that Dutch foreign policy must serve the Dutch interest. For the VVD this means first of all safety. Secondly, it means that the Netherlands will remain the Netherlands. Thirdly, it means that it provides prosperity and jobs and fourthly that we give Dutch people as much support as possible abroad. We are therefore opting very explicitly for the national interest. This means: not for a guide country ideal, for a historical feeling of guilt, for identity politics, for a party interest or for moral indignation as the driver of our foreign policy. And it's not about commenting on what's happening in the world. It's about our national interest. That is sometimes considered selfish, but that is, of course, completely unjustified. We see, for example, that recently when Prime Minister Rutte had to negotiate the recovery fund and wanted to ensure that we would give enough but not too much money to Southern European Member States. Then you heard the internal criticism that we were chasing national interest. That's really weird. The Netherlands, perhaps with Germany, is one of the very few countries where the concept of "national interest" is so criticised. But we put ourselves out of the discussion if we refuse to stand up for that Dutch interest. What's with the resistance? I see Mrs Ploumen at the interrupting microphone. Maybe I can get ahead of her by giving her three considerations. But I also like to listen to Mrs Ploumen! The first thing that is heard is that that national interest would not be moral. That is true in the sense that our national interest does not coincide entirely with universal moral principles. We want the best for the world, of course, but our concern for the Netherlands determines what we give priority to. We are spending more money on health care in the Netherlands than on development cooperation. Because if the Netherlands doesn't think of the Dutch, then who? Our morality is also filled in by that self-interest. A second point is that this national interest might not be known. 'Cause anyone can decide that for themselves anyway. At least that argument does not deny it, so that is a progress that you can jointly look for the national interest. And then it becomes something like art. We can differ on whether something is art or not, whether it is national interest or not, but we do know that national interest or art is something other than money or principles and that it has added value to be a national interest or to be an art. Because if the whole world uses that national interest in their discussion, why do we fail ourselves if we refuse to think in those terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u37	There's nothing wrong with national interest. So I do not think that Mr Koopmans is disappointed with the notion that Dutch foreign policy is partly motivated by national interest. The question is, of course, how do you define the national interest? Is that purely economic or are we also in favour of the values set out in our Constitution? I call it freedom and let me call it mercy. This is also of national importance to me: defending the values that we have high here to ensure that we see these values respected not only in our own country but also beyond. In that light, I would like to ask Mr Koopmans the following. The VVD's electoral programme says that humanitarian aid is no longer given to countries far away if we do not actually have anything to do with it. How should I see this in the light of the values that suit the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u38	First of all, I have just said how the VVD wants to colour the national interest. That is safety first and then "The Netherlands must stay in the Netherlands"; there is that value in that. The third is jobs and prosperity. I would like to continue this discussion with Mrs Ploumen. But she also asked: what do you give emergency aid to? The VVD says, also in the draft electoral programme, that we must give emergency aid. The VVD even says: we need to invest more in emergency aid, but we also need to see where it can contribute most and it should also contribute to, for example, preventing refugee flows to the Netherlands. That is the national interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u39	So if you're unlucky enough to live in Yemen and starve to death as a result of a conflict, you're probably living a little too far to get here with a boat. But in the words of Mr Koopmans you are actually happier when that same happens to you in, what shall we say, Mali, because then you are closer to the Netherlands. Mr President, its national interest is not my national interest. We can see that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u40	Only that is a wrong quote from the programme, so I invite Mrs Ploumen to check it out, because it is ultimately about where we have added value. Where does it have added value for, for example, combating trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Van Ojik, the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u42	I've been warned from all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yeah, bullied, I see it. Those women really need you today: Mrs Karabulut, Mrs Ploumen and I.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u44	I was not ready to choose the microphone at all and I was already on all sides... I very much appreciate the good concerns, Mr President, let me say that. The example of Yemen that Mrs Ploumen came up with is very interesting because it says something about the shortsightedness in the story of my colleague Koopmans. Because of course it may well be in Dutch interest, if you do not want to do it for all kinds of moral or humanitarian considerations, to prevent a country like Yemen from falling apart, becoming a failed state and possibly becoming a starting point for people who could be a threat to the Netherlands. It's not that crazy at all, so it's pretty amazing that the VVD calls such a country, by name and name, in the election program, in the spirit of the Dutch national interest. I would ask him to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u45	That is convenient, as Mr Van Ojik calls it. Because if a country that has collapsed in the vicinity, then of course we have an additional reason to give it emergency aid, and we do. We are doing so now, and we are now contributing to the fight against all these war crimes. I believe that the VVD with GroenLinks and a lot of other parties have all taken initiatives for this, so we are doing so. We also say: let us do as much as possible through the European Union. We have to do this together. I'll get to that later. But you have to look very carefully where you have added value and how can you also ensure that it contributes to protecting Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr Van Ojik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u47	I couldn't agree more. That is why I am so surprised, because Mr Koopmans says 'we do', but the VVD's election programme proposes to stop. So then he actually says: and if it turns out that the country collapses, yes, then of course we have to help again. Well, if that is the foreign policy of the VVD, then frankly I find that very short-sighted, short-term and self-interested, without any idea of how to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr Van Ojik does not read the draft programme properly. It even says that additional funding for emergency aid should be provided at the expense of well-meaning but often not effective long-term projects. I would like Mr Van Ojik to agree. It also says that we must grant emergency aid on the basis of where our interests lie, in order to prevent the flow of refugees, so that you see where that can be most effective. Then I can well imagine that the programme will then say: then we will focus on Syria, because that is close. Those people are coming here, we can do something there, we have a relationship there. I think that makes a lot of sense, more than farther away, Yemen. The Rohingyas are also mentioned. That makes sense...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u50	A third objection, which I have not yet heard in the context of national interest, is that of multilateralism. But of course that does not conflict with national interests. It is precisely our role in NATO, the European Union and NATO that is in the national interest. But that doesn't mean we have to get rid of ourselves. It is true that because we are members of NATO, the insecurity seemed to be far away for a long time. That is why we were only talking here about the merchant who stands for trade and our interests, to the reverend who wants to moralize with his lifted finger. I was quickly classified as a merchant. But what we're missing is the general. The general is the personification of security. It was precisely because we had the luxury of NATO that was often forgotten. Security is at stake. We see that the threats even come to people's homes via the Internet. We have Russia, I say towards the PVV, and terrorists. At the same time, part of this Chamber does not even want to conclude a trade agreement with Canada. How can you still serve the national interest? I therefore ask the Minister whether he agrees with the VVD that the foreign interest should above all serve the Dutch interest. What exactly is national interest is, of course, open to debate. That's what I like to deal with here. We say, once again, security. The Netherlands must remain the Netherlands. Jobs and prosperity. And so not: maximum development aid, or the reception of as many migrants as possible, or the Netherlands guide country. Of course we must help poor countries to earn more and we also support fundamental human rights. That is why, with a number of colleagues, I took the initiative for the Netherlands to start a trial against Myanmar about the genocide against the Rohingyas, and we express our opinion on the abuse and repression of the Uighurs, the situation in Tibet and many other matters. But we must do this mainly through the European Union and the UN. We must not produce a drizzle of motions in order to rain our virtue on the world. We must look at that national interest. So let me mention the three priorities. I'm going into safety now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mrs Karabulut, I will give you the floor in a moment, but I have just been asked how many interruptions there may be. I forgot to mention that at the beginning of the debate. Four interruptions in two, or eight questions in the first term on the side of the Chamber. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u52	The VVD rightly calls attention to our security and explicitly mentions two main points, namely terrorism and the arrival of fewer refugees in the Netherlands. I would ask Mr Koopmans to reflect on the VVD's own contribution. That the support of wars in Afghanistan and Libya, I mention only a few countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, is a basis for the flow of refugees. But also that supporting all kinds of jihadist groups, including in countries like Syria, contributes to more chaos, which is once again a breeding ground for terrorism. And of course because of Western intervention the growing terrorism here. Would the VVD want to reflect on that? Perhaps we should take a different approach in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u53	I think we should all be proud of the support we have given to the fight against terrorism, especially where it threatens us directly, starting with the fight to eliminate Osama bin Laden. I would also say that we should be proud of the fact that the Netherlands contributed F-16's to destroying ISIS when it wanted to commit genocide on people. And that we can still be proud of all our contributions, especially all those men and women who work, sometimes at risk for their own lives, to destroy the most horrible terrorists you can imagine. We should be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u54	It's okay. Mr Koopmans can certainly do that, but I would like to give him some specific facts and ask him to try to reflect on them. Since the war on terror, which arose from the idea that we would defeat terrorists, there have been more attacks in the Middle East and more attacks here. In 2000, for example, there were 13 Islam-inspired terrorist groups and now there are 44. There were 32,000 warriors; now there are 110,000. We didn't suffer from those few, but now there's a lot of them. Over the past few weeks, we've seen quite a few attacks. So that terrorism is anything but defeated. In fact, 37 million people have fled. That is the highest number since 2000, if you ignore the Second World War. The VVD has to reflect on that, too. Does the VVD recognise that the interventions contribute to this? Do you want more security, what the VVD says to want for the Netherlands.I assume that the VVD also wants for the rest of the world...........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u55	If you want to contribute to safety, you have to have the courage to do something. The VVD and fortunately many parties, but not the SP, never the SP, are willing to bomb ISIS and try to protect people who are the victims of the most barbaric terrorists on the ground. Then I reject anyone saying: if you try to help those victims and if you try to prevent new victims, then you are also responsible and responsible for the fact that terrorism still exists. No, I'll tell Mrs. Karabulut. If we want to help people and if we want to prevent people from becoming the victims of the most serious terrorism, then we must dare to take action. With the politics of hands tied behind your back and from the banner of the SP many more victims will fall. So we must reject that. We must fight terrorism by all means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u56	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u57	Security. So we must fight the terrorist attacks, as we have seen so tragically with our friends in France and Austria, and which are also an attack on our free society. With passivism and the fear of not getting dirty hands, we get war and blood in the street. That is why we are fighting terrorism here and at the breeding ground there and against those networks, wherever they hide. I have already expressed my support for the bombing of ISIS and I have already expressed the pride that we can have on all our men and women who are committed to doing so. We also see the aggressive policies of Russia, Turkey and Syria in a region at four hours flying from here. Then I think again of MH17, and then we know that we have to be alert to our safety and to the safety of Dutch people. But also further away. We see that China is undermining the political independence of neighbouring countries, including Taiwan, and freedoms in Hong Kong and Tibet. We also see that this is detrimental to the stability of the world order. This also has a major impact on world trade. We must therefore be alert to technological ambitions and investment here. That's why we invest in power politics. We can only do this together with equal partners in the EU, in NATO, but also with Australia, Japan, South Korea and many other countries. Then we need a strong EU, willing to use the resources for security, migration and also climate. I ask the Minister what prospects he has for cooperation with the new American government. What political damage would be caused if the Netherlands could not even ratify a trade agreement with our friend and ally Canada? Doesn't that undermine the role of Reverend, who some would like to play? Will the Minister seek support for sanctions against Turkey and for internal NATO measures? What is the status of the initiatives we have discussed earlier in the fight against new weapons that could fall into the hands of terrorists? Together with my three highly valued coalition colleagues, I am tabling an amendment to invest heavily in arms control, in the fight against the abuse of technology by terrorists. Mr. Chairman. Coalition colleagues of mine will make proposals, which are also supported by the VVD, on better cooperation with Suriname, because our human ties are stronger than Bouterse has ever been. Mr. Chairman. We must also reconsider the protection of the strategically necessary goods and services in the Netherlands. That is why, together with my coalition colleagues, I am tabling an amendment to strengthen diplomacy for our strategic autonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u58	It is right that Mr Koopmans should draw attention to our security. Mrs. Karabulut already gave him that. I'd still like to ask him something. In recent years, we have repeatedly argued for the active role of the Netherlands in nuclear disarmament. Treaties have been terminated. It hasn't gotten any safer. The Minister doesn't really do anything about that. The VVD supports that. How should I reconcile this with Mr Koopmans' plea for the safety of the Netherlands? Isn't the fact that the Russians and Americans are retreating from treaties that should control nuclear weapons one of the greatest threats?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u59	The VVD has said many times, and I say this too, that the disappearance of those nuclear weapons treaties is a very bad thing. However, the difference between the position of the PvdA and the VVD is as follows. The VVD does not want us to disarm ourselves unilaterally, or at least to withdraw from the atomic umbrella. Because as long as our enemies have nuclear weapons, it's naive and dangerous when we don't have them anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u60	It is a pity that I have to put another question to this effect. Mr Koopmans is simply arguing a flagrant lie. Mrs Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and I have tabled a motion to emphasise the importance of two-sided disarmament. Mr Koopmans did not support this motion either. So one, it doesn't make sense what he says and two, what he says, he doesn't. Well, then we'll know where these guys are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u61	Well, that's not right. The motion referred to by Mrs Ploumen calls for all nuclear weapons to be removed from Europe. That's very nice, but Russia also has a large part in Asia. Then they'd stay there. It's just dangerous if we don't have them and the Russians do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u62	This is not an interruption, but just for the Acts: is the VVD now also going to do facts-free politics? The motion simply calls for two-sided disarmament. The fact that the VVD did not vote for this for political reasons is something else, but please let us stick to the facts. Mr President, could you perhaps remind Mr Koopmans of this once in a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u63	What about exactly, Mr. Koopmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u64	The motion on which Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Karabulut are referring refers to two-sided disarmament in Europe. But Russia is much larger in Asia. Eventually, the weapons will be taken out of here, but they're still in Asia. That's just dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u65	The proposers give their own interpretation to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u66	They can give an interpretation and I can give it to them. I say it's just dangerous; because of safety we shouldn't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u67	Thus, Mr Koopmans acknowledges that two-sided disarmament is indeed the commitment, and that the initiative is indeed being taken by Europe? That's a slightly different picture of things from what you gave before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u68	No, this is a misrepresentation, because, once again, Russia has a European part and an Asian part. You can remove the nukes, but they'll have these weapons on the other side of the Urals. That is quite close, I say towards Mrs Karabulut. Russia may not have nuclear weapons, but we do not have them at all. That's dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u70	The second priority I mentioned is self-preservation. The Netherlands must remain the Netherlands. This means protecting our national identity and our fundamental values. For the sake of clarity, our identity is fortunately very open, but also our own. It is now threatened by terrorist attacks, human smugglers and many other things. That is why we need to focus on more refugee deals with, for example, North and West Africa. We must therefore ensure that they take back their illegals and commit themselves to combating terrorism as a prerequisite for EU support. We must also take action against intimidation from abroad by Dutch Uighurs, Dutch Eritreans, Dutch Turks and other Dutch people who are being pressured or intimidated from abroad. That is unacceptable. Our values are in our Constitution, but our Constitution is now linked to those of our EU partners. If the rule of law is to be violated in Poland or Hungary, then we must defend our values by acting against those countries. That is why they must lose their EU subsidies if they undermine those values. Mr. Chairman. We must continue to defend our fundamental values. That is why my coalition colleagues and I are proposing to further invest in documenting war crimes in Syria and other countries. Also in Yemen, I'm just saying. In addition, the freedom of the press and the freedom of conscience are fundamental. We, as coalition partners, are also proposing this. Mr. Chairman. My third and third priorities are jobs and prosperity. Because of the corona crisis, because of the Brexit, but also because of China's economic policy and the threat of trade wars, our jobs and our prosperity are threatened. The Netherlands is, of course, in favour of an open world economy, because we are a central country in that world economy. Mr President, I know: the time. But I've got a few more minutes. The VVD supports free trade with China. Let's get that straight. But it does so on the condition that it must be safe and on the basis of reciprocity. Our entrepreneurs must not be falsely competed on the basis of wrong practices. Our Dutch entrepreneurs must be supported in their activities abroad. That is why we focus on economic diplomacy by focusing on trade in our postal network. We need to protect our vital economic structure. We must be able to keep them in our own hands and anchor them with national and European measures. I ask the Minister about protecting this vital economic structure with European measures. Mr. Chairman. My fourth priority, and the last one I mention here, is that of Dutch people abroad. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister's staff very much for the enormous work they have done to repatriate tens of thousands of Dutch people; people who were stuck at the start of the corona crisis. That was a huge job. The Minister has also personally made a great deal of effort in this regard. I have heard the tragic stories, but fortunately also a lot of success stories. Thank you for that. I would like to ask the Minister what lessons we can draw from the experience with this and how we can make the consular network even stronger. I also ask the Minister about the VVD initiative that we launched last year, and in a different form in the years before, in order to combat the pressure of marriage and abandonment of Dutch people. There are still far too many Dutch boys and girls and even older people who are left behind abroad. We all have to stand up for that. Finally, Mr President. For a good Dutch policy, carried out by very good diplomats, these diplomats also need a good workplace. I understand from the surveys that this is still limited. When will they have another place of work that is good and representative? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is very directly affected by foreign affairs. A foreign war can lead to terrorism here, to refugee flows and to tensions between population groups. Trade wars can destroy our jobs, while trade agreements can increase our prosperity and strengthen our good links. We also need these good links to help Dutch people abroad. It is therefore in our national interest to have a strong foreign policy, and that also requires everyone to know what it is about. It is about the Netherlands, it is about the Dutch and it is about the national interest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. Mr Van Ojik has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u72	There is something else that is bothering me and I would like to put it to Mr Koopmans. He talks about Dutch values. The Netherlands must remain the Netherlands, that sort of thing. If things go wrong in Poland and Hungary, we must act against them. I very much agree with that, by the way. Now, two weeks ago, I happened to be in the Chamber in the external trade and development cooperation budget, where Mr Koopmans' colleague argued that we should only support NGOs, support civil society organisations, which are in line with the government's objectives. He even mentioned a number of organisations by name, which went against government policy and which would therefore no longer receive subsidies. That has been keeping me busy for two weeks, I say honestly, and I thought: this is the time to ask. If someone has such big words "Nederland must stay in the Netherlands," does that fit in with the fact that the government only subsidises what is acceptable to the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u73	I am very pleased that Mr Van Ojik is asking me to do so, because what do we want with foreign policy? I say it must be a comprehensive policy. As part of the foreign policy, you should also use the OS policy. Our European policy and that sort of thing must serve the national interest, the things that we really think are important. So it's not about supporting NGOs because they're NGOs. Then it's about achieving your goals. If we spend taxpayers' money on our goals, it must be aimed at achieving results. It should not be aimed at taking action against ourselves. No, you can take action, but before those targets. For climate policy too, I say to Mr Van Ojik, or for fundamental human rights, but also for security, for combating trafficking in human beings. That's what it's meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u74	This doesn't reassure me, because the VVD determines what the national interest is and what goals are worth pursuing by civil society organisations, and if you don't go along with that reasoning, then you shouldn't think you can still qualify for funding. While I always thought that, and that's why it bothers me that one of the things we're proud of in the Netherlands is that we think it's so important that there's a contradiction. That is what the programme was called, Mrs Ploumen remembers, Consensus and Consensus. In contrast, democracy flourishes and, ultimately, policy flourishes. Now the VVD says no, because that is only allowed if you do what we of the VVD have defined as national interest. Mr Koopmans is looking at me very surprised, but that is what he is saying here. Otherwise, you won't get a grant. So all these organisations in the Netherlands, who have traditionally felt free to disagree with Minister Blok or Mrs Kaag for decades, will soon be empty-handed when it comes to the VVD. That's a big deal!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u75	But that's not the way it is. For the sake of clarity, I would like to explain what the VVD Group sees as a national interest, and I invite Mr Van Ojik and all my colleagues to say how they see the national interest. We are a fantastic democracy, so in the end we come out of it together. We will then formulate what we see as national interest. Now through taxes we have received a lot of money from the Dutch to implement our policies and to keep Dutch people safe, for example. I would say that we should use that money to do so. Then it is very nice and very nice that there are all social movements that also participate in that conversation and act, but let's say: we give money to achieve our goals. If an action group wants to get involved in the discussion, that's very good. We do not need to subsidise them for that. For that we already have Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Ploumen and everyone. And myself, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u76	Well, well, well. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Chairman. My last budget debate on Foreign Affairs. This also applies to more people: Mrs Karabulut, Mr Voordewind and perhaps others, including the Minister. We don't know yet. I went looking for the red wire. What exactly is the common thread in the foreign policy of this cabinet and this minister? Honestly, that was a quick search, but fortunately last week an interview appeared in NRC Handelsblad in which the minister himself gave the answer: why can I always enter Turkey, China or the Arab world, well everywhere, and also bring the message about human rights and other sensitive issues? Because we're financially strong. This gives our diplomacy a solid foundation and allows for the development of sensitive subjects. Dutch foreign policy is fine when we hear the Minister. All doors open for us. Donald Trump's relationship with the U.S. gets an 8. Yeah, really, he says. Rutte was in the White House twice, and I'm saying the Secretary of State has regular contact with Pompeo. In Europe too, if you read the Minister like that in that interview. The European engine only works if every part is of top quality, he says. We already are. That is why, at this difficult time, we are much less stuck than other countries. It is a strikingly positive, not to say complacent story in these times until recently. Finally, the eternal tension between merchant and Reverend Koopmans was already talking about this; that is what he is again, I would almost like to say to the past. Because since we're such a good merchant, we can be the vicar now and then. I think it's a bit of a lean analysis. I'd like to put my own against it. I think it is lean, because, of course, the most important question must be asked as to what our diplomatic efforts are going to be. The Minister must also see how the free West was actually about what we are so proud of, losing ground, how our democracy, our desire for freedom to be and to find who and what we want to be and what we are, is being challenged. From the outside Russia, China from the inside, as our NATO ally Turkey, by the American President, with whom we have worked so well in recent years, I heard the Prime Minister say this week, because of the increasing lack of freedom in countries within the European Union and, yes, also because of the open flirtation with strong men in our own parliament. I am concerned about the decreasing willingness to take it effectively for those core values. Never before has there been a president in the White House who has been so demonstrative in defending democracy and international law. The values for which the European Union has been established have rarely been so systematically eroded from the inside and it has never been so easy to cast doubt on what is really at stake with fake news, disinformation and conspiracy theories. I am therefore concerned about what I see as putting foreign policy on the sidelines or even more precisely: diplomacy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are many examples of this. The Chopin biography, with which the Prime Minister dedain described the difficult negotiations for a recovery plan in Europe, the way in which the Minister of Finance, while the corona crisis was at its most severe, taught the southern Member States or, more generally, the dominance of finance in the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework. Or remember that curious debate on China's strategy, involving nine ministries, but of which the human rights component, for which this foreign minister was responsible, had to be taken over from a large majority in this Chamber. Or my last example: think of Nord Stream 2, that geopolitical time bomb that was considered by the Netherlands as a private enterprise for as long as possible, which politics should not want to have anything to do with. Mr. Chairman. The geopolitics may be back on the world stage, but this is largely beyond the Netherlands. In the end, you can see how we are following the elections in the United States. While the US President did everything in his power to undermine the international rule of law, our cooperation with this minister was given an 8. The Prime Minister reminded us on Monday, immediately after congratulating the President-elect, that he had always worked well with his predecessor. What was this good cooperation actually about, I would like to ask this Minister. If we are so close to Trump, when is the cabinet going to see the moment when we are going to call him to admit his defeat, as we have done regularly in many other situations in many other countries? Will that moment come and, if so, when and where does it depend? I would like to invite the Minister to put the Dutch response alongside that of the High Representative, Josep Borrell, who wrote the following two days ago: "The EU-US relationship was marked by numerous differences of opinion. We even saw that some principles, which formed the foundation of the transatlantic partnership, were eroded and sometimes even stripped of their meaning." How does the Minister see this? It would be nice if the new President were to lift sanctions against the staff of the Court as a symbolic but also meaningful gesture when he took office. Is the Minister prepared to convey that suggestion to the future president's transition team? Mr. Chairman. I come to a few key points in foreign policy which I have often called attention to in recent years. Firstly, the greening of foreign policy. Climate change, energy transition, biodiversity loss and Earth depletion are now generally seen as potential sources of international conflict and therefore as a field of foreign affairs. I am pleased to say this last year with the good initiatives taken by the State Department. For example, we will soon be discussing forest diplomacy. That's very important. The Netherlands is actively supporting this. We have often asked for this to be done by conservationists and land-right activists. I think that's commendable. But never, never before have so many conservationists been killed because of their work as last year: more than 200. This means that this support and protection are not sufficient in practice. I'd like to ask the Cabinet if we can get a tooth on this. Mr. Chairman. Climate change has become geopolitics, but energy supply has been this for decades; I mentioned Nord Stream. In the meantime, the cabinet is reluctant to look at Nord Stream with more political glasses, but now that the Chamber has recently asked the cabinet to put into practice the application of the Gas Directive, because of the attempt to murder Navalny, a letter came from the cabinet saying: yes, but there are still legal proceedings and we have to wait and see. How does the cabinet intend to implement this motion on the application of the Gas Directive, for which the European Commission is ultimately responsible? Mr. Chairman. Much more needs to be done in the field of energy policy. GroenLinks and D66 have made a note together in which we make a number of proposals for this. I am not going to repeat it in this debate, but we are calling, among other things, for the European Energy Safety Strategy, which, if I am right, is now 2014 to be revised and updated. We are also advocating that the Minister be prepared to respond to this in advance in order to do much more to support the energy transition in the countries around the European Union, for example countries such as Ukraine, Moldova, Armenia and Belarus. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Democracy is also such a subject. We were just talking about it when we were interrupting, and I also talked about it earlier. Democracy is never complete, it is never perfect and it is always limited, but it is the backbone of our freedoms, of our self-determination and of our strength. Since the corona crisis, democracy has deteriorated in no less than 80 countries. At least that's what Freedom House says. That trend had already taken place before the corona crisis. The question is whether as a Dutch government we can do more independently or internationally. For example, last month we witnessed Europe's inability to respond quickly and adequately to the electoral fraud and subsequent violence in Belarus. There were modest sanctions, but it was too little, too late. In practice, what are the consequences of not recognizing Lukashenko? I would like to ask the Minister. For example, can the Minister guarantee that his government no longer receives support from existing EU programmes? And at least as important: can we do something extra to support the opposition? Can we respond quickly and adequately, offer protection to human rights defenders, visit prisoners, provide legal assistance, support opposition groups, assist journalists, collect evidence? Do we have enough people on the scene and can we scale up what we did? It's good that there are all kinds of programs. Matra, Shiraka, the Regional Partnership Fund; there is a lot of things. However, given the urgency of supporting the fight for democratisation in Belarus, but also in many other places in the world, the question is whether the capacity for this in foreign affairs should be increased structurally. Finally, Mr President. I wanted to say a few words about disarmament, but it is probably not going to happen again, because I would like to use my last minute to say something about freedom of the press. When you talk about democracy, it is a very essential subject. We have heard that for a number of important programmes that support press freedom in developing countries but also elsewhere in Europe, there is no money left under the new subsidy scheme. This can be done; projects can be assessed and at some point they can be undervalued. The Minister sent us a letter at some point and said: I am going to make that right. It was about 70 million in the old situation, divided into two organizations: Free Press Unlimited and Radio Nederland Worldwide. The Minister has now said that he is going to reserve 9 million from the Human Rights Fund for next year, i.e. for this financial year. That is, of course, a good thing; it is of course a good thing that this is happening, but that is, of course, far from a solution. That is not enough to keep up those programmes, which have proven in the past that they are important in guaranteeing freedom of the press. It is precisely in the light of the debate on declining freedoms, threats to the freedom of the press and also threats to journalists that it would be very good for the cabinet to see if it can do more on this issue. That's what I want to ask the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Mr Sjoerdsma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u79	GroenLinks quite rightly points out that this geopolitical reality means that the European Union must stand on its own feet, but to be quite honest, I am a little surprised that GroenLinks is so attached to the Socialist Party, a party which not only wants to leave the pension agreement and who does not like it and puts forward those anti-climate proposals, but also wants to leave the euro and the European Commission wants to abolish it. I do not think that is the answer to this crisis. And that's what GroenLinks sounds like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u80	So that actually calls for a response from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u81	I am sure she will be able to give it to you in a moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u82	No, she has to, because you talked to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u83	I'm just gonna finish my interruption for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u84	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u85	We can do that without interruption on your part. It'll go faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u86	Oh, come on, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u87	So my question to Mr Van Ojik is: why does your party choose to run away from trade with Canada on top of all this, for example? You are setting out the difficult geopolitical situation: Justin Trudeau, the great example of Jesse Klaver, Canada, and do not tell us which country we could trade with. I would like to ask Mr Van Ojik that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u88	I'm going to see Mrs. Karabulut first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u89	I do not know what the gentlemen of the coalition ate this morning, but Mr Sjoerdsma does not stick to the facts as he suggests. I do not think we have the time to discuss this, Mr President, I am looking at you and I am taking your agenda into account, but all three points he raised are incorrect in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u90	You've made your point. Mr. Sjoerdsma, Mrs. Karabulut will be next, and then you can interrupt her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u91	I am fully in favour of correcting a personal fact that is being made. But a this is not a personal fact and b what I say is true. Perhaps Mrs Karabulut would like to go through the SP election programme for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u92	No, we're not going to discuss election programs through interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u93	You'll allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u94	Because that's what you brought up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u95	Yeah, you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u96	Yeah, and she's right to respond to that. That's how it works. Now she's gonna have to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u97	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. Look, I don't want to be in this game of Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u98	You can sit down, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u99	What Mr Sjoerdsma does is something he often blames others for. It is true that we have a different position on a number of points than D66. But so black and white and so flat and actually almost surrounded by some kind of enemy thinking and image... What Mr Sjoerdsma is portraying here, does to himself and especially to us wrong. That is the last thing I want to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr Van Ojik has made his contribution and it is customary for you to interrupt him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u101	That's what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yes. If you involve other parties in your interruption, they want to respond to it. This is how it works; you know that very well. So I would say: keep it limited to Mr Van Ojik. Mrs. Karabulut will be next. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u103	I am very limited to Mr Van Ojik and what his party is doing. That's what my interruption was about, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yeah, that's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u105	Oh, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yeah, you do sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u107	I ate something wrong, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u108	It was actually two questions. One was: how close are you to the SP? I'm just gonna say it at home. The other concerns the CETA Convention. In this respect, GroenLinks and the SP have indeed reached the same conclusion. On the first point. It is, I think, no surprise to Mr Sjoerdsma and certainly to Mrs Karabulut that we think differently on a number of points: what you do and do not do when it comes to the future of Europe, how you look at the euro, peacekeeping operations. There are a lot of differences between the SP and GroenLinks. So if Mr Sjoerdsma reassures you, then I would like to say so. But of course I am also saying that we have a lot in common with the Socialist Group and with the Labour Party, but you may find that less illogical. For example, look at the annual counter-budget, I would like to say. Each time, each year, unfortunately with little progressing insight on the part of the cabinet, these three parties present neatly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u109	I think you've explained this sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u110	...so very important financial choices are made. That was the first part of the interruption. Yes, Mr President, there was another question about CETA. We believe that this should actually be the golden standard with a country like Canada. For example, the Netherlands and France have now taken an initiative together, taking a joint position on what fair and sustainable trade should actually look like. I think that's a really good piece. If you put that in addition to the current CETA Convention, you can almost only conclude that that is inadequate, that you should do exactly what the Netherlands and France are now advocating and that you should therefore renegotiate. It will come of that, I think, because of course things are not going so well. Then you can immediately apply the gold standard, just with Canada. So that's what we're really different about. D66 and GroenLinks, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u111	I'm really worried about that. I think Mr Van Ojik is right to distance himself from some of the European positions of the SP. That's good. But the question before us, the question I would like to ask GroenLinks, is the following. Look at the turbulent situation we're in. Look at this trade agreement, which was referred to by a former colleague of ours, or a current colleague of ours, as an excellent trade agreement. Look at the fact that the standards go up in this agreement. Look at the fact that there are all kinds of safeguards built in. Then this raises the question of whether GroenLinks is aware, really realises, beyond the words that Mr Van Ojik just said, how urgent this geopolitical situation is and what it requires, including the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, namely the willingness to compromise once in a while. There's not everything perfect in that. I'll admit that right away. But that is the best trade agreement the European Union has ever concluded. So I ask Mr Van Ojik: if you mean what you just said to the Minister, then return to your steps. Walk across the street to the First Chamber, and tell your senators: we have changed our minds; support it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u112	Then I have to disappoint Mr Sjoerdsma, I fear, however much I like to meet him on all kinds of points, because I am not going to do that, also for reasons I have just mentioned. I share the concern about the erosion of the international legal system, if you could sum it up with a very big word. I've been talking about that myself. I can imagine that fair and sustainable trade agreements are a very important part of that international legal system. I'm pretty sure about that. That is why I am in favour of negotiating on this, of trying to restore the WTO and of having these discussions very well. But I think that we should now conclude trade agreements that can last for the next 20, 30 years and therefore meet the highest standards. This certainly applies to a country such as Canada, but also to Mercosur and others. The difference between D66 and GroenLinks is that we believe that this treaty does not do so and that it is therefore better... Look, the treaty has already entered into force for a long time as far as trade is concerned. Of course, Mr Sjoerdsma knows that. But as long as it does not meet the highest standards, we believe that the negotiations cannot be stopped. That's the difference. We'll weigh it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u113	Good. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u114	I would also like to ask a question on that last point. The fact that GroenLinks goes for gold in trade agreements is entirely justified. We all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u115	Look, another ally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u116	We must indeed restore the WTO. We need to work well together. The international rule of law must be in order. I think that the international rule of law will really be damaged if we do not even come up with trade agreements, because we never think it is good enough. GroenLinks says that the treaty has been going on for a number of years. How many international laws have gone wrong since the treaty with Canada? How many farmers in the Netherlands have gone bankrupt? That was also an argument "too" through trade with Canada, which has been running since 2017? How many bad products from Canada have been put on the Dutch market since that agreement came into force? Zero. In fact, Dutch farmers, Dutch trade and the Dutch market have benefited. So why does GroenLinks persist in the somewhat populist view that trade with Canada cannot?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u117	I don't hear that often, that GroenLinks is populist, but that we are elitist...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u118	You'll take it as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u119	... that no one understands what we're talking about and that it's all way too nuanced and too complicated. But I didn't know this one, honestly. I would almost thank Mr Van Helvert for that, but that would also be exaggerated. The answer to his question. The main objection we have to ratification by the Netherlands, and therefore with the support of the Dutch Parliament, of the CETA Convention, lies in the fact that it initiates a dispute resolution system that we reject. We say you don't need that. It is easy to solve this on the basis of judicial powers such as those in Canada and in the European Union. We also find the system as it is set up undemocratic and work in favour of large companies, which will be able by this system to force governments into major damages claims, if you are not careful. That is actually the only piece on which the Dutch Parliament is concerned, I say for the sake of clarity, because everything else is European policy, as Mr Van Helvert knows. So the questions you're all asking about what went wrong are, frankly, not so relevant. The fact that we voted against has everything to do with the document in which the Dutch Parliament has its say. That's the dispute resolution system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u120	That's quite right. That was also the subject of a debate. Good adjustments have also been made. But I mentioned the word "populist" because I find it worrying about GroenLinks that GroenLinks is going along with it. Look, we know that parties like PVV, Forum and SP always say that the Netherlands can do everything better alone. We know that. That kind of statement always works well at parties: we have to do it ourselves, because then we are stronger! But I do find it very worrying that parties such as GroenLinks, who also like to find the connection, are no longer prepared to say in public: boys, even if it is not quite what we want, we can still do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u121	I am sorry that Mr Van Helvert finds that worrying. Look, we're making a trade-off. I would like to take this very seriously, because these are, of course, subjects which, for example, lead to a great deal of discussion in our group. I don't want to be secretive about that at all. But at the end of the day, you're gonna consider whether you're gonna find a treaty like this that you're hoping will last 20, 30 years, just with a country like Canada... It is often said that if you can no longer conclude a treaty with Canada... Well, with a country like Canada, you can rely on very high standards. The European Union and Canada are two prosperous, progressive trading blocs, which must be able to do so with each other. We believe that the current CETA Convention does not meet that high standard. That does not mean that we say: we only vote in favour if we get our way 100%. But in the end, each party makes the assessment whether what lies ahead meets to a sufficient extent what you as a party consider important in the areas of sustainability, social protection and, as I have already mentioned, dispute resolution. That is why we have the balance...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u122	That debate has been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u123	The balance has turned to the negative side of us. That has been a very careful process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u124	That debate on CETA has been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u125	I know, Mr President, but I have already been questioned by two colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u126	I can tell you by heart who's gonna find something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u127	Me too. Do you, too?!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u128	Yes, because I chaired it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u129	Well, we've talked about that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u130	Yes, and now Mr Van Helvert with a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u131	Yes, I want to make a point of order. Madam President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is not really the committee that is responsible for the plenary. We now have our budgetary treatment here. When we talk about geopolitics, I think we can ask each other, here, precisely on these kinds of documents, which have indeed been discussed before. But we consider it here as a whole. I think, Madam President, that you are too strict because you constantly say: we have already talked about it, so don't bring it up again. That's how often the Foreign Office doesn't debate at all. There's gotta be some way to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u132	I am pleased that you are making the point of order, but it has nothing to do with the taxation or non-taxation of the Chamber. Of course you can ask anything about it, but I don't know how long, for hours, I'm spent on this subject. I am simply trying to ensure that the same debate is not repeated again. That also applies to Mr Van Ojik, because he was going to explain in detail what GroenLinks' position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yes, of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u134	But that has also been discussed extensively here. So it applies to everyone. Of course you're free to ask what you want. Then Mr Koopmans, on CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u135	About CETA! No, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna go a little wider. I'm going to satisfy you completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u136	No, it's really not about that. You can talk about CETA all day long. That's fine, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u137	I have a question first, but in fact it is partly a follow-up to Mr Van Helvert's point of order. Foreign policy must, at least in the VVD's view, be a comprehensive policy. So yes, we are talking here about geopolitics and all great things, but in order to keep our country safe and to give our people jobs, we need to be able to talk about everything as part of foreign policy, including trade agreements and development cooperation. Then it does not matter whether it has been discussed in another committee or in another debate. It's about everything, because we want to keep our people safe and give them a job. In this context, I would like to move on to Mr Van Helvert's point of view on the populist Green Left. Mr Van Ojik mentioned to me a quote from his programme. I'll give him one. The GroenLinks programme now states that we do not want any more investment treaties, because if you are going to invest in another country, then you must abide by the law of that country. No more investment treaties! What does that mean? This means that Dutch investors will be afraid to invest in, for example, Africa or South America, because they do not know whether their investment is being protected. In fact, those countries themselves want an investment treaty with us, because they want jobs there too. So now I ask Mr Van Ojik: do you think there should be no more investment protection? And do you think so for the jobs in the Netherlands and the jobs in Africa and in South America? So you don't want to support it that way anymore? Because that is populism and against what you claim to advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u138	And a point of order: the interruptions must be brief. That is contained in Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u139	I should get the election program, because I'm a big fan of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr. Koopmans, what are you going to do? Oh, you give Mr Van Ojik the GroenLinks election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u141	Did you mention anything? Yeah, I see it. Do you want me to read it to you? I rarely get the opportunity to advertise so much for the GroenLinks election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u142	Yeah, it's free airtime for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u143	It's really good what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u144	Yeah, that's what I thought. Haha. Well, read it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u145	Here it comes, a quote. "External investors do not receive special treatment in trade agreements and simply have to comply with the law in the countries where they operate."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u146	Surprising, isn't it? What does that mean for Dutch companies that let me not mention countries that want to invest in such a country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u147	Mr. Chairman. It's a little crazy, 'cause I recognized it. That's why I thought I probably forgot something. But to say that GroenLinks does not want investment treaties! I will really try to reassure Mr Koopmans. On the contrary, I am very much in favour of regulating international economic activity through international agreements, trade agreements, investment treaties, because I am deeply convinced of them, and I seriously believe that if you do not make those agreements, the law of the strongest will apply. Then it becomes an economic jungle in which the big multinationals run away with profits. That's what happens. What we now know is that despite the existence of such investment treaties and sometimes unfortunately the existence of these investment treaties, which, for example, allow tax avoidance or enable all kinds of activities that are not social and not sustainable, the international legal order, which is so important, is more hampered than promoted. And that is why the Green Left election programme says very well that this is in it; I think it is quite natural that companies should comply with national legislation and that they cannot therefore conclude international conventions to avoid national legislation in any way. And that is what this is about, I say to Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u148	What this kind of thing is about is that when it is invested, so if jobs are created here by such an investment and jobs are created in those countries too, much better than development cooperation; create jobs! That is why it is important for the European Union to be able to play its part in the peace process. Or that, because they don't like a GroenLinks parliamentarians' statement, they say: here with that investment. It is therefore the protection of investment and the protection of jobs and interests. GroenLinks says here: no, we don't want any of that. Then I ask Mr Van Ojik two things. Firstly, will Mr Van Ojik continue to ensure that investment treaties are not possible? Second of all, if he's so against this kind of thing, how does he want to be a vicar in the world? What if we can't even make investment treaties? If we can't make any more trade agreements? Then who wants to listen to the reverend's raised finger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u149	Again, it doesn't say at all that GroenLinks doesn't want investment treaties. It says that foreign companies in the Netherlands must comply with the law in the countries where they operate. That's how it says it literally. This seems to me to be an important starting point to avoid putting foreign companies in a favourable position by concluding investment treaties, tax treaties or trade agreements. For example, because they can go to the International Court and say: this is contrary to what I have prepared for. We know this is happening. Foreign companies challenge national legislation in the country where they are established. Shouldn't the VVD be against that, too? I do not understand at all that it would be populist to say that foreign multinationals should comply with Dutch law and that they should not be able to rely on some shady international institution that we are going to create in the framework of CETA, or Mercosur, or TTIP, or I know what it's all called, to get their rights. That is what is happening now, making national policies in countries that are weak impossible. I don't know what's liberal about being for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u150	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u151	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u152	You can return your copy to Mr Koopmans. I see you've all studied each other's election programs. It's gonna be a nice debate. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert, on behalf of the CDA. I see that Mrs Ploumen is already walking to the interrupting microphone. Mr. Van Helvert, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin the general reflections, I would like to begin around Corona with a thank you to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I know that the Minister himself, but also a lot of officials have actually worked overtime and overtime to get as many Dutch people as possible trapped abroad by bringing corona back to the Netherlands. Of course, there are always Dutch people who say they had to wait a very long time and that it wasn't nice to hear that too, but despite that we know that the ministry worked very hard for that. Well, that's a good thing to say. So thank you to the Minister and through the Minister also to all the officials who have done so. We are now working on the final budget for this season. The four years are not quite full yet, but we have done very nice things at the Foreign Office. We started with Minister Zijlstra. Afterwards we had Minister Kaag and then we got Minister Blok. If you look at what happened, you'll see that this coalition has made extra money available to the State Department. That's actually really good. We've opened embassies. More money for human rights has come. There has even been a special envoy for the freedom of religion and belief, something our group considers very important. Digital services have also improved and more money is being spent on defence, but also a very important tool for foreign affairs, as well as on development cooperation. In that sense, therefore, we can say that we have had worse times in the Netherlands when it comes to investing in foreign affairs. I would also like to say that we have fought with Minister Blok at the outset and have said: Minister, do you still like it? Can't you move with the Chamber a little bit more? But in the end, the Minister, I really must say, really got loose in the second part and, for example, as the only country in NATO, he addressed Turkey. Of course, we will always say that we can and can do a little more, but our minister did, while other foreign ministers in the NATO Council kept their mouths shut. Well, that's a good thing to say. The Minister has also set out the position on the Uighurs towards China, if possible, where other countries have not dared to do so. And when we talk about human rights sanctions, the Minister has worked hard in Europe for Magnitsky legislation, and it is almost there. These are things that have happened over the past four years, apart from all the criticisms I will mention in a moment, I would just like to say to the Minister. Thank you for that. That was the beginning of my general reflections, Madam President! Overall, we see some negative developments around Europe, recently all the efforts we have made in foreign affairs, in terms of threat and in terms of global consensus. At the edges of Europe, the threat is increasing. With Russia, we don't seem to have a better relationship. That is the wish, but we still have a lot of reservations with Russia. We're very worried about China. I will come back to that later. The threats on the cyber road are also increasing. We have to worry about those points. This is all the more reason for our group to act together with allies in Europe and also with the United States. The values we bring to this are very important. I will come to the situation in the United States in a moment, but I would like to put something first. When he thought he had won, Biden said in his opening speech: "Let's give an example. Let us not lead by the example of our power, but by the power of the good example." This is perhaps also a task for the Netherlands in the European Union. Of course, we would like to take stronger action with the European Union, but there are always countries that can block something through a veto or that are not fast enough. Nevertheless, as Dutch people, we must continue to set a good example in this respect. I sincerely hope that in this way we in Europe can be an example of the values we know in the Netherlands. After all, the Netherlands also originated from all small countries, who tried to defend their own interests, but had to work together to be stronger in the world. The EU should therefore occasionally choose the root-stick approach. You can also call it the priest chaplain approach. On the one hand you have an eye for the needs of everyday life, but in time you also have to raise your finger and dare to say what the rules are. That's what Europe does pretty well. This has been encouraged by the strategic autonomy, the stricter requirements for access to the European market and the EU's human rights sanctions regime. The Netherlands must continue to make a good contribution to this. If you want to do that worldwide, of course you can do it through NATO. You can also participate in missions of the UN or of Europe. In addition, the Netherlands needs to look at the economic opportunities in new markets. That's a good point, too. Geopolitics and economics are closely linked, and that is why Mr Amhaouch has requested the creation of a Task Force for Africa. We must not leave that continent to China alone. Madam President. In the United States there has been a very exciting election, actually even more exciting than the CDA's list-leader election. Still, the votes aren't all counted. Mr Van Ojik was already worried. He said, "Shouldn't we force someone to admit defeat?" From a Dutch perspective, it looks rather strange how things are now. There are allegations of fraud and then there's no evidence. However, we must put it in a historical perspective. From a historical perspective, it's not all that crazy what's going on there. You see a very crazy democracy, but the people who do not follow the rules or who come up with accusations without proof are put in place by the rule of law. You have to give the rule of law that role. If you look at it from a historical perspective, you can see that a few centuries ago, all those people out there were still walking around with guns and axes if they didn't agree. Now they're taking care of it through social media and the rule of law. It's not always ideal, but it's really a lot better than it was a few hundred years ago. In that sense, it's just a democracy at work. Let's just wait and see the winner. I suspect that will be Mr Biden. Regardless of the winner, the message to the EU will not change very much, I say quite honestly. Biden and the democrats will also call for stronger defence contributions from European NATO members, and the democrats have also taken a protectionist position towards the world. The pressure on the EU to tackle China harder will also be continued from Biden. Let us hope that the US has a very constructive attitude again in words and gestures, because that is what we in Europe consider to be very important in relation to multilateralism, and that we are working well with China towards the UN, NATO and the EU... am I saying with China? Also with China, but I mean with the United States. In the end, the United States is our allies. We have celebrated 75 years of liberation this year for a reason. I share what Mr Van Ojik said about the International Criminal Court. In connection with the time, the clock is ticking by... I leave it at that, because it was nicely put. In the contact group with the United States, together with the ambassador of the United States and colleagues on the other side of the lake, we spoke very clearly about how they deal with the International Criminal Court. We have indicated that this is not a good thing and that we feel a little offended by it in the Netherlands. Madam President. In this budget I certainly want to focus on Suriname. On November 25th, that is Red Wednesday, Suriname celebrates its forty-five Srefidensi Dey, the independence day. It is good that the Minister will be present. Let this independence day also be a part of a new bond between Suriname and the Netherlands. We have a special relationship with Suriname. Many family members and friends live in Suriname from the Netherlands. Also live in the Netherlands many people with a history or background from Suriname. Now that Bouterse is no longer president, I think we have a moral obligation to establish a good relationship. Suriname is of course far from there. The country's in big trouble. For example, it has huge debts, including in China, to name but a few. The new coalition is still fragile. It's not gonna be easy. I think we should radiate the following to Suriname: "We know that it is still very fragile and that things can also go wrong. Be transparent when things go wrong and don't hide them." Our group believes that the Netherlands should certainly be prepared to cooperate. This should not be done on the basis of development cooperation, except where necessary. The main question is what we can do together and how we can grow stronger together. I think this is very important. We are talking about the security and stability of the rule of law, but also about the area of the economy. What can we do with our knowledge to the port of Paramaribo? What can we do with our knowledge of agriculture and livestock farming to contribute to that sector in Suriname? What can we contribute to that knowledge in Suriname based on our knowledge of care and care real estate? I think that's very important. Together with my colleagues in the coalition, I am tabling an amendment to make money available for this, because we consider it very important. I am glad to see that in this general discussion today. Madam President, then freedom of religion and belief. We wanted to stress this in every budget, but also in the middle of many debates, because we want to give that right special attention during this coalition period. The coalition agreement also states that we stand up for people in plight. They mention persecuted Christians, among others, but other groups are also mentioned. Since the persecuted Christians are a large group, we do what we do for them, also for other groups that are being persecuted for the sake of Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In the Middle East, for example, Christianity is slowly disappearing. On the other hand, the number of Christians will increase considerably in Africa and Asia. China will be the country with the largest Christian community in 20 years' time. In many of these countries Christianity is considered undesirable. The repression will continue to increase. If we want to pursue an effective human rights policy as the Netherlands, it is inevitable that we pay more attention to the freedom of religion and belief, also specifically for persecuted Christians. By defending the rights of Christians, we can numerically achieve the greatest results and thus work equally for other communities, such as women, girls and lhbtis. They are also persecuted for who they are, what they think and what they feel. You can't do that. At the request of the CDA, a special envoy for freedom of religion and belief has come. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank my colleagues who have supported this. More action is needed. That is why I will shortly be presenting an initiative paper on Christian persecution and freedom of faith. In this way, we can continue with this subject in a subsequent period. Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about the trial of ISIS fighters, or, in fact, the accountability of people who commit human rights violations in war zones in general, and the image that exists in the Netherlands. We have had quite a spicy debate on this at the Defence Committee. I am concerned about the totally wrong romanticised image of ISIS fighters and also of female terrorists returning to the Netherlands. We see, for example, that Laura H. has become the face of the expatriated IS women. She is portrayed as pathetic, naive, indoctrinated lady who sought happiness in the caliphate. As a result, you constantly get a stage to tell, as if this could also be an opinion in the Netherlands. I'm very worried about that. Of course, that does not prevent me absolutely from defending the freedom of the word in the Netherlands and the freedom of art, culture and theatre. That was the discussion then. The fact that this is being portrayed as a romantic image is very worrying to me. For example, in the youth library for 15 to 18 years old it says: "Laura H. is the incredible but true story of a young woman from Zoetermeer who in 2015 with her two little children and her husband sought happiness in the caliphate of IS." So that's how it's set up for the youth. I think that's the wrong picture. I think we need to make sure that these terrorists are convicted. That is why I would like to ask the Minister about this. The trial of the terrorists in that region is very important. Collecting evidence for that, too. People need to account for or account for what they've done and they need to be tried. If the Minister likes that, I am always prepared to encourage him to do so by tabling a motion later. Madam President, then China. I saw that just after noon news came that some Hong Kong parliamentarians were fired by new regulations in Beijing. This reflects the situation in China with regard to human rights and democracy. In January we discussed the 75-year liberation of Auschwitz. We have commemorated the genocide. Following these horror practices, the world decided at the time: never again. The genocide treaty was therefore the first human rights treaty adopted by the United Nations in 1948. Genocide isn't just about mass killing. That's one of the methods used in genocide. Genocide is also about destroying an ethnic group and killing members of a group. Killing is one of the methods of achieving that. But there are also other methods, such as the deliberate inflicting of physical or mental injury on members of the group, the creation of conditions leading to the physical destruction of an entire group or parts thereof, forced birth control, or the forced transfer of children from one group to another. It is beginning to look very much like it and we are getting more and more signals from different sides that China is applying these four practices on a large scale, for example to the Uighurs. The CDA considers it necessary to conduct independent investigations into this situation in China. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to advocate an independent investigation at European level or at UN level. I'd like to ask the Minister where he sees the best odds. We really need to be able to see what's going on inside China. The Uighurs are just one of the examples. In the light of time, I cannot go into more examples. Madam President. The CDA Group is deeply concerned about Nagorno-Karabakh. Armenia surrendered in the middle of the night at the beginning of this week in the armed struggle. Azerbaijan thanked Turkey for its help. President Aliyev said: "There is a military solution, as we have proven." On the other hand, we have also seen investigations that say that major human rights violations have been committed, that phosphorus has been used, and that cluster munitions have been used. That is very worrying. Russia and Turkey are currently guarding peace there. I would like to ask the Minister how he sees it. Is it an ideal situation for us to have Russia and Turkey on the outskirts of Europe guarding peace? What is the state of the government's position on the plea for blue helmets to control peace there and ensure that parties stay apart? What is the Minister's position on the idea of considering a transition authority in Nagorno-Karabakh, which can supervise the withdrawal of troops, disarmament, human rights, civil administration, law enforcement, the return of refugees and the restoration of infra? What is the Minister's position on the idea that the responsibility to protect is one of the core businesses of our foreign policy? Two, also very important, and if it strengthens the Minister, I am also prepared to table a motion on this issue. Can we offer humanitarian aid to the victims in Nagorno-Karabakh and to the Armenian people who have now been driven out there, with the cold winter coming? Mr. Chairman. The evil role of ally Turkey is, of course, very worrying within NATO. I just gave a compliment to the Minister. He is one of the few ministers who still dares to speak to Turkey in that NATO Council, but that is not enough, of course, because this really goes too far. I don't think this is possible. If you hire armed Syrian jihadist rebels, put them in a plane with guns and then take them somewhere else to fight, and you say to them: if you kill some Armenians, you get paid a little more, I find that too far. That must be contradicted. It can't stay that way. It cannot therefore be that we are still supplying arms to Turkey, knowing that these weapons are being deployed in another place, without any consultation with NATO alliance members. Finally, Mr President. When it comes to South Africa, I would like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u154	Ms. Ploumen, he was finishing up. You've waited so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u155	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert spoke about the terrible situation that arose in Nagorno-Karabakh. It's not the first time we've talked about this. But his tears are crocodile tears, because he is now pleading for an arms embargo against Turkey, while he voted against a motion by Mrs Karabulut and myself, which called on the government to work at the UN for an arms embargo against the parties involved in the conflict, and to appeal to the countries that continue to supply arms. If they had voted in favour and the Minister had gone on the road with that message, the developments we have seen this week might have been quite different. You shouldn't blame me, but what does such an arms embargo actually mean? The battle has been fought, literally. It's a lost cause, experienced the Armenians. Why not vote for that motion when it still mattered instead of big words in the newspaper this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u156	I understand that question, and we had that discussion at the time. Of course, if an arms embargo could have helped the parties, I would have said immediately. But at the moment when we commit ourselves to an arms embargo and do not provide aid, when you see that other parties continue to do so blindly... Alijef could simply continue to fight through with the help of Turkey, Israel and other countries, while we should not help people who want to protect themselves and their people. That was the point at the time. Then you should also be able to say that Turkey should actually stop. By the way, you say that the battle is now fought. Yes, the battle has now been fought, but if we do not send any signal to Turkey that we do not want it, then I wonder if this is the end of where Turkey thinks it is with Alief. I think it makes sense to do something. I also said last time that we could impose personal sanctions against Alijef and his surroundings, to let them know that they really went too far and that this is really not right. Well, that didn't get support back then. I think it is good now to stop supplying Turkey with weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr Van Helvert does not recall the motion at all. I'm just gonna literally read what's in that motion. "Asks the government to work in the UN for an arms embargo against parties involved in the conflict and to appeal to countries that continue to supply arms." That's not just about one party or the other. It's not about the Netherlands at all. It is precisely the countries that have stopped that region in recent months with fighters and weapons. This morning's appeal is totally unbelievable in the light of abstaining from supporting this motion. Maybe that could have made a little difference. The call in this morning's newspaper doesn't matter anymore, and that's very bitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u158	No. I would like to make sure that we are here to decide who has done the most or not. I think we all want the fighting to stop there. You filed that motion at the time. I just gave the answer as to why the choice was made at the time. I remember that one well. You also remember the Minister's reply, who said at the time: I can't do anything with that right now. You know what I mean? So I think we should do this now. Of course, I also find it appalling that, for example, we have not been able to make a fist together with Europe. That is one of the things you think: in fact, we should be able to act more quickly with Europe on these issues. I would have liked it if we had been able to do things before then, but unfortunately that did not happen. That's really regrettable. That does not prevent us from saying that now, I think you agree with us that we do not want Turkey to move forward. I would not be so sure that Turkey is already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mrs Karabulut has a question and also Mr Van Ojik, I thought, but she has sat down again. Then I'll go to Mrs. Karabulut. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u160	I think that's perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u161	No, I asked Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u162	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u163	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u164	I've nodded yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u165	It's fine. Go ahead, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u166	There is a de facto arms embargo from the Netherlands and the government's commitment is: "We have advocated this year in, year out. It is quite true what Mrs Ploumen says; of course we should have done that a long time ago." But there is a very restrictive policy and the Minister is doing his best and continues to do his best in the EU, so there is nothing new in that regard. But what if we retabled that motion now? Of course, it is not just Turkey that is arming. For example, cluster munitions come from Israel. Would we be able to count on the support of the CDA group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u167	That's a good question. I am absolutely in favour of doing everything in my power to ensure that arms supplies stop towards Nagorno-Karabakh. If that motion helps, I want to take a positive look at it. But I also need to take a moment with my colleagues to switch foreign trade, because it might be in a broader perspective. But I certainly want to look at that, because it will benefit all of us. I shall have to consult with you, because I have not yet done so on the motion that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u168	I find that a little too easy, because as a reason the CDA voted against the motion last time, Mr Van Helvert said that the situation was different at the time. He says it's gotten worse now. We need an arms embargo. Then you can't say that one party has to stop delivering and that the other party, perhaps because that happens to be Israel, can just continue arming? Armenians don't like that either. It is certainly not good for the people who live there in the region. For the last time, however, I would like to point out that it has indeed been European countries, including the Netherlands, which have armed Turkey to the teeth in the last decades, year after year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u169	Absolutely. Turkey has in principle been a very good ally of the Netherlands for centuries, but we do see that under Erdogan Turkey is increasingly descending to a rogue state, I would say. I am not ashamed that we had good relations with Turkey in the past, because they were also very good. I remember being chairman of the CDA in Limburg. We organized the Floriade there and the main investor was Turkey. President Gül came to visit and was received by the Queen. How fast can it go? I agree. So I am not saying that I am against it, but let me discuss it. It is precisely in these matters that hastily shouting things that I have not consulted is not wise, because I must come back to them immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Kuzu, the middle microphone. It's clean. It'll take some getting used to. Or that one. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u171	As far as an arms embargo is concerned, the House has already stated that at the end of 2019 at least the Netherlands imposed an embargo against Turkey, not supported by the DENK Group, because we also need to look more broadly. Mr Van Helvert has already replied. But here's what I was wondering. The day before yesterday, a peace agreement was reached signed by the Prime Minister of Armenia and the President of Azerbaijan, under the mediation and supervision of Russia. I wonder if Mr Van Helvert is happy with peace in the region right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u172	We have always argued that fighting must stop immediately. So I am glad that there is no fighting at the moment, but you have also been able to see in the coverage that it is a very one-sided agreement, which the President of Armenia also says: this is very humiliating to us, we are not happy with it. I take the liberty of saying that I found Mr Kuzu's reaction truly appalling. He just says on social media: hip hip hooray, we won and what a relief that we are freed. While we know that there has been a very bloody war of human rights violations, in which Turkey and jihadist rebels have helped to kill as many people as possible. I find that really shocking. I'm gonna distance myself from that. I am sorry that a member of parliament from the Netherlands says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u173	If Mr Van Helvert could have read better, at least he would have read other things. In a previous debate, too, we have advocated that international law should be respected. When we look at international law and its territory, we see that Karabakh belongs to Azerbaijan. We've had a discussion about that. You referred to the disputed area, and I respect international law, which says that Karabakh is Azerbaijan. Then I would like to ask Mr Van Helvert: what is illegal about it, what is humiliating about it when illegal occupation groups have to leave a ban that does not belong to them? What's illegal about that? What's humiliating about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u174	Two things. Mr Kuzu says that we discussed this last time, but we did not discuss it. You wanted to, but I said I'm not going to interfere from here. That's what the people at the table should do. What I am angry about in Mr Kuzu's response is that he is pleased with the profit from a military meeting. That really is not a profit, it is a great loss for all those involved and for all the victims who have fallen there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u175	Yeah? Okay, then thank you for... you were almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u176	I had another question about the situation in South Africa. But I see that the answers to those questions are now in place. I shall take it first, so that I do not have to tire out this budget treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u177	But Mrs. Karabulut is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u178	Just one more point. As Mr Van Helvert did, I will also dwell extensively on human rights in my contribution. But a specific case where we have together encouraged the minister to condemn the horrible violence is Gaza 2018, where 200 people have died and where Israeli soldiers have shot innocent young people. I remember when that made a great impression on me that Mr Van Helvert called that murder. Now it is the case that the Minister has not wanted to condemn it to this day. Could we take the initiative together to persuade the Minister to at least condemn those responsible for this violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u179	Here's what I'd like to say. I know that the Minister has had previous debates on this in the RAZ. Is it perhaps an idea that the Minister should ask the new President of the United States, or the President-in-Office if he is to be renewed, what can the Netherlands and the United States mean in this whole conflict? So apart from picking out one thing, which is indeed terrible and which still has to be followed up, see whether the Netherlands, as a country that has good relations on both sides, can find a new entrance together with the United States, both in Israel and Palestine. Then that great pain point that remains can be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u180	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-6.u181	Well, then I'd like to suspend for lunch. I suggest we suspend until 1.55 p.m., so for half an hour.
