ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u1	Let's get started soon. The Party for Animals isn't here yet, so we can catch up. I'm kidding. Welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're here. Did it get late last night?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u2	I went home at 1:30, but our people did go through the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u3	Yeah, that's what happens to those budgets. Well, thank you for coming. This is part two of the budgetary treatment of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. In this period, I allow eight interruptions per group. An interruption is one remark, so eight comments. You can kill all eight of them in a row, but you can of course spread them. At 11 p.m. the tent must close because of corona, as agreed in the Bureau, the supreme body in Dutch democracy. We all don't want to get into a fight with that. So 11:00 p.m. we're gonna try to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u4	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Why don't I just give you the cubes right before the administration? Then everyone knows what to expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u6	Yeah, and then I suggest we do the interruptions after those cubes. It's seven cubes, I understand from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u7	Yes. I'll speak some introductory words first. In the first block, I'll discuss the farmer's position a little more broadly. There is also innovation, corona crisis and such themes. Then I have a block of NVWA, a block of fishing and a block of nature. That's a bigger block, because there are a lot of different topics in it. But I will leave it to your wisdom to determine how you deal with the interruptions. Then a block of nitrogen, a small block of animal welfare and finally some other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u8	That's the block Buba of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u9	That's the big question, isn't it, where Buba ends up? But let yourself be surprised tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u10	But both Mr Graus and Mr Wassenberg are not here yet, so we cannot of course start with Buba.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u11	No, we don't start with Buba. At least I can say that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u12	When they come in, I'll tell them we're out and they can read it in the Acts. The floor is yours!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several Members asked yesterday to reflect on all kinds of things that have happened in recent years and also asked what is actually going on with regard to agriculture and the connection with nature. I must say that last night I was inspired by the words of Mr Futselaar. He had developed a new hobby, which is to read back Acts. When I heard that, I thought: if we read back the Acts of this debate in ten years' time, how would we look back on the past period? So I am not going to look back now but to reflect from the future on what we have all said and done here. I think, I think, that we would conclude that agriculture and the whole debate on agriculture are under high pressure. I think we're all experiencing that ourselves. I also tasted that yesterday in the first-term contributions of all your Members. The question that then arises to me is: how would we see that in the light of the situation in ten years' time? Would we then say: fortunately, we have moved forward in that debate and we have really taken steps to ensure that we no longer see agriculture and nature as a kind of opposite but much more intertwined? Or do we then conclude that we are still struggling, which we haven't really gotten that far along with over the past ten years? Or perhaps we say: there is peace, perspective again; the issues are still present, but we can handle them? I take it that most of you here in ten years' time will have a different function. That's probably true of me, too. That also makes our role as politicians relative. But apart from that, it is also good to realise that the debate on agriculture and nature is not a debate of ours as we sit here together. Not from the Chambers Committee LNV, not from me as minister, not from the sectors. This debate should concern everyone in the Netherlands. This debate also belongs to everyone in the Netherlands. Also because it's about so much more, like our living environment and our landscape, a place to live, our food that we get every day, and our health. Making that imaginary leap in time is what some Dutch people do almost daily, not as a thought experiment, but because their livelihood depends on the direction we take in the coming years. Of course, I am also talking about farmers, gardeners and fishermen. They want to go on, but they also wonder whether in ten or twenty years' time there will be room for them to practice their profession. Prince's Day was something different to everyone else than usual, I guess, for me, too. Normally we stand with all the officials in the ministry, we have a chat with each other in the morning and we thank everyone for the work on the budget. None of that happened now, because there was no one at the office; we all have to work at home. But I had asked if on the morning of Princess Day a number of young people who are active in agriculture, nature, fishing and science wanted to come to the Ministry. That was coronaproof; it wasn't a large group. Those were all young and very motivated people. Later that afternoon, the Millions note and the LNV budget for the coming year would be presented. But that morning I talked to them about their millions of investments, about the commitments they often make as 20s, loans with maturity of decades. They weren't even very business conversations; they were actually much more emotional conversations. Everyone who was there was convinced that something had to happen. They also noticed that things had to be different, for the carrying capacity of nature, but especially for the income of those entrepreneurs. I noticed the will to change very clearly, but also the feeling of being stuck. The question was: what is wise to do? What exactly does this future look like? That's an almost impossible question for an individual. You will notice that someone also has a very strong desire to hold on, to that perspective for the future, to a policy that oversees the long term and clearly indicates a direction. That desire is not something I only tasted on Prince's Day; that has actually been the thread of all the talks I have had over the years as Minister. At the same time, the progress we would all like to see is stagnated by the contradictions in society. Several members of your Chamber also referred to this in their contributions. We can see these contradictions coming back into politics, of course, because politics is society; at least it should be. That is why I believe that it is our expensive duty as politicians to come out together, to overcome these contradictions together. Only then can we expect individual entrepreneurs, young people, to take steps too. Let me put on the table the motivation that I have had all these years as a minister. It has always been to emphasise the common interest, to find interfaces rather than split-swimming, together with representatives from sectors, but also from society and nature organisations, in order to give clear direction. And we've formulated a direction. The arrows point to circular agriculture. We are heading in this direction in all decisions and policies. In this way we have converted a number of switches. Mrs Bromet asked me very specifically about this. What did you realize, she asked. Then I can list all kinds of lists and say "we realized this" and "we realized that" and "I did this." Let me also honestly say that it was quite a search and that at times it was really a struggle. I would have liked to have done more than we may have realized at the moment. At the same time, in Mr Bishop's words, this is not a policy area where you simply press a few buttons and change everything. These are long-term trajectories, in which the changes are slow and the changes that are there are always accompanied by many discussions. However, if we are asked what has been achieved in concrete terms: we are actively engaged in climate action. Concrete plans are now being implemented in the peat meadow areas. Mrs Bromet herself made an own-initiative paper for this. In the fisheries sector, we have concluded agreements and taken measures. In plant protection, more and more steps are now being taken towards a different form of plant protection, with low-risk means, for a real system change. We know the different programmes, for example the switch-over programme, and the money that we have made available for this. I also mention the young farmers' fund. There are numerous examples in which we and ensure that there is a perspective for the sectors, and ensure that this is done in a way that is sustainable in the future. As far as I'm concerned, we'll keep our course in 2021. For what it's worth, but the LNV budget almost doubled during this reign. That is not in itself a measure of success, I say, but it is if we use that money to measure the path taken. We continue to work on a stronger position for the farmer and after years of interen can also strengthen nature, because we make large investments in it. And that's a real turnaround. Over the past few years, we have seen more and more attention and appreciation for nature and agriculture. Due to the corona crisis, an extra spotlight has been put on this. This spring, all Dutch people really felt what it means that agriculture and the whole food chain behind it are a vital sector. We rediscovered the value of locally traceable food, and rightly there was a great deal of praise for all those who take care of our food. Our relationship with nature was also upgraded. Forests, sea and open field: we've never appreciated them so much now. Mrs Lodders pointed out the responsibility we have for people who are less well off in the world. She also highlighted the important work of the World Food Programme. I feel that responsibility, too. The Dutch agriculture and horticulture make a substantial contribution to solving the global food problem. And let us also realize that the number of people who are hungry is increasing. We can hardly imagine it. What a luxury we live in this country. It's not everywhere like this. Together with organisations such as the FAO and the World Bank, we are also going to launch concrete initiatives in a number of countries to put an end to this. But the role of innovation must not be underestimated here either. Mrs Lodders also rightly underlined the important work done in relation to CRISPR-Cas, which was also recently awarded the Nobel Prize. She also asked how this relates to developments in Europe, such as Farm to Fork. If we don't lose a position, it was actually her rhetorical question, as I have interpreted it. I believe that, at the same time, Farm to Fork offers an opportunity to ensure that we as a continent can maintain a position in that global food issue, while doing so in a way that we can maintain it with each other. Farm to Fork is also committed to improving the income of primary producers. That is the first thing that is needed to ensure that farmers can continue on this continent as well. But there will also be issues of the strategy in third countries. That is the fair playing field, which Mrs Lodders often calls attention to and on which the Netherlands will continue to focus. She also asked me if I would go into concrete conversations with farmers to look back at this period and see what is needed to keep the conversation going for the future. I say to Mrs Lodder that I am prepared to do so. I'm almost done with my introduction, Mr. Chairman. Another issue raised during this corona crisis is zoonoses and their risks to public health. I understand. The impact of COVID-19 on humans, animals and society is enormous. Let me just say once more: public health is always at the forefront of the whole cabinet and also for me. That is what I am saying to Mrs Ouwehand, who asked who is actually talking about zoonoses. Technically, I should say that that is the Minister of VWS, but I feel morally responsible for that myself. We have also set up basic monitoring in the Netherlands to quickly discover those animal diseases, including zoonoses, in livestock farming. If a disease is detected, measures can also be taken. The zoonoses structure in the Netherlands also ensures good cooperation between human and veterinary experts and between the Ministry of LNV and the Ministry of VWS. Signals of a possible zoonomic nature shall be assessed in a structured manner. Depending on the signal, scaling takes place. As I indicated in the letter of 21 November last to your Chamber, the cabinet wants to look ahead and look more broadly at what is necessary to prevent zoonoses in the future as much as possible. To this end, the Cabinet, together with an expert group set up, will identify what is needed in the broad sense of public health, animal health and the environment in order to minimise the risk of the emergence of zoonoses. This will be seen in both the national and international contexts. Mr. Chairman. In the election programmes presented for March next year we see the typical LNV topics fortunately, I say this time! Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Get Mrs Ouwehand says that this is about her entire election programme. Of course, we always knew that about her. And I can see that coming back wider now. Let me also say that I hope that we will put the cards on the table in this debate, so on the one hand we will account for our choices, but on the other hand we will also dare to take responsibility. It also fits in with being realistic. I'm just guessing that no party will be in charge of it all by itself. We're gonna have to figure it out together. We're gonna have to work together. That's why it's good to look past the election. That's exactly what the people we work for do. Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen crisis has revealed that we are also asking a lot of questions from our small country. We live there, produce our food, recreate it and generate our energy. The nitrogen crisis is about the quality of Dutch nature. The pressure on some areas is getting very high. People are also wondering if there will be a place for them later. My commitment in the coming, final financial year of this missionary cabinet is that there is enough room for nature to recover and develop and also for farmers and others to be able to undertake with pleasure and produce food. There is no doubt that we are faced with difficult choices and that all these interests can be squandered, as well as we are already seeing what is possible if farmers, gardeners, fishermen, nature managers, administrators, researchers and police pull together. We'll move on together. I look forward to that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u15	I ended my speech yesterday with the remark that it does not seem easy to me to be Minister of Agriculture at this time. I mean that, too. If we want a change in agriculture and an improvement in nature, I also know that this is going to take many years and that we cannot turn back decades of agricultural policy in four years. So all the understanding for that! But at the same time, if you're a minister, you have to show leadership. You have to acknowledge that interests are opposite. You can only change something if you give one priority. Because if you keep talking to everyone, the uncertainty is huge. I got another message from a farmer tonight. He wrote: Mrs Bromet, you always talk about circular agriculture, but what do you mean by that; what should I do as a farmer to be ready for the future? In my view, farmers are suffering from this uncertainty and the lack of direction. How does the Minister himself view that? For she is the one who should lead us and the farmers to that other world, to the world in which agriculture is in accordance with nature and where there will be losers but also winners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mrs Bromet suggests that nothing has been said or done about this in recent years. I have already mentioned a few examples. We know that the challenges are growing on a number of issues. I mentioned the subject of plant protection. I didn't wait until eventually the resources were all forbidden to say: oh, we have a problem. I said, "Be ahead of that step and watch how you come up with another way of plant protection." I must admit that, because of nitrogen, more and more concrete measures have been taken to ensure that we can bring agriculture much more into balance with nature. That is, of course, the underlying factor in the entire nitrogen debate. This applies not only to agriculture, but also to other sectors. We have to relate to that. We'll have the debate on nitrogen in two weeks. The cabinet has already made its choices known and hopefully we will be able to come to choices with each other on how to proceed. That also gives direction. I mentioned the switch-over programme: farmers who want to work more extensively, farmers who want to work in a different way, will soon be able to do so much easier because the government supports them. Maybe Mrs. Bromet says, "What's it all about?', But if she looks back to where we came from, to agriculture as we did three years ago and which, fortunately, we still have a part of, to the issues that were there then but for which we had hardly any resources and for which there are no choices, she might say that it has not been enough, but she cannot say that nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u17	That's right. I doubt it, but it's really not the cabinet that made this all change. It's been a ruling from the highest judge who set things in motion. Of course, the cabinet has done what it thought was possible, but yesterday we also talked about the split-up that exists in the coalition, which has produced a kind of vague average which, in the opinion of GroenLinks, is far from enough to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u18	I know what the position of GroenLinks is. We have a debate on this too. But then I quote the words I said at the end of my introduction. I know that Mrs Bromet always listens very carefully to that. You can't do business in this Chamber if you don't cooperate with each other. Do you realize your own election program and your own ideals? No, you'll always have to compromise here. Does anything come out that you say fits exactly what you want? No, that is the essence of compromise. I believe, however, that is the call I make during this debate, that it is very tempting to say what you think and what is wrong with someone else. I am not saying that Mrs Bromet does that, but that temptation is also present with me; I am also a human being. That does not, in the end, bring the agricultural debate any further. I hope that we are much more aware of this after the elections, because that ultimately determines whether or not we can give direction. Again, the steps have been taken. Is it enough? That's what you'll judge. Would I have liked to go faster? Yes. But I can't say there have been no changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u19	The Minister is talking about working together, but all I can see is that the fishermen are now off the table and do not want to talk to the Minister anymore. I think most farmers have also had it with this cabinet. If I just look at what's going on in the newspapers this week about this minister's nitrogen approach... In a few days you'll read about the AERIUS nature map that doesn't add up and about secret nitrogen info that drives a wedge in Limburg. AERIUS is not cast in concrete and is modified. No one can control it. The Netherlands is completely locked, but no one knows why. Manure is very much wanted by the French; well, that is good news. Young farmers are not eager. It's just one big mess. All these thousands of entrepreneurs, including those 3,300 PAS detectors, all these troubles in recent years, it's tens of thousands of entrepreneurs who are in the middle of nowhere, who don't know what they're up to. No one understands the nitrogen rules. There is only one thing that is adapted and done to constantly bully those farmers away. That's the idea. That really reminds me of the premium affair where the government also says with fine words and good intentions: yes, we wanted to take care of everything properly. But in the meantime, civilians are being crushed in the system. And this is where entrepreneurs get crushed. A citizen may be even more vulnerable than an entrepreneur, but these entrepreneurs are also having a very difficult time. I think the Minister should take that up. What does the Minister think of the way in which she has been working over the past four years and of what that has done to all those entrepreneurs in the Netherlands? What's their future supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u20	I know that Mr Madlener is always well aware of what someone else has done wrong. It's okay. He may attack me on that in this debate. I'm actually trying to do something else in this debate. I am trying to figure out how to make the choices with each other, how to make sure that we know how to move forward and how farmers know how to move forward. Yeah, that's my job, that's right, but you can't dismiss yourself from it. You can't say that's beyond me. Did something happen to the nitrogen pronunciation? Yeah, a lot happened to that. And that's what put pressure on the place. I just mentioned it. Where it was my ambition to bring parties together much more, I also see that this is now more difficult than ever. But I do believe that the only way we can take that step again is by providing that clarity, by making choices in that nitrogen debate later on and by helping farmers to walk down that path. We're not gonna leave them alone, we're not gonna let them go, neither are the PAS detectors. I shall come back to this later in my speech, because Mr Madlener had asked a few questions about it, together with others. It's not like we're gonna let these entrepreneurs go. Is the pressure and uncertainty now high? Yes. I always try to figure out what's behind it, even if there's a demonstration here on the Malieveld and you can quickly say "what awful," "what weird" or "what annoying." Why are they standing there? That's not always emotive. They are often multiple reasons and it also often has to do with uncertainty. I care about that. I would very much like to be able to give that direction at some point. That is why I believe that in two weeks' time we really need to have this nitrogen debate with each other so that we can give it direction. Is this always gonna be easy? No. But if it's up to me, we'll allow people to make that change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u21	The Minister refers again to the ruling of the Council of State, but this minister is also in the responsibility of all its predecessors. That whole gang we have now, including the Council of State, is all the result of government policy, which you are responsible for. This also applies to what is happening in Europe, because there too the Netherlands sits at the table and deals are made with which the Netherlands agrees. You, Minister, are the ultimate responsibility for all the policies of recent years, including what has gone wrong. That is why I ask you how you feel about that. Surely it can't be that all these farmers don't see their future anymore? There really is more to it than that a thingy has to be repaired here or there. Something's really going on. The farmers are sick of it. I made the comparison with the premium affair because entrepreneurs are really being pulverized here. This was already the case at the change from the milk quota to phosphate duties. And now you have the nitrogen duty again. At some point it gets so complicated and the buttons are always turned so that the entrepreneurs don't know what they're up to. The banks have closed down funding and there are only rules being changed: another new this, another new that. Those entrepreneurs are going down. I hope that the Minister will also feel responsible for all her predecessors and all the policies that have been implemented by them and that she does not always refer to the Council of State or to Brussels. No, you're responsible for the whole state policy, and I hope you'll take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u22	I don't think I've said anything that I'm not responsible. I am certainly responsible, and I am also responsible for what my ministers have done. But I can put it back. Mr Madlener also sits here every week holding his hand up or down. He is equally responsible for a number of choices being made here. If I have a proposal and he doesn't agree, and neither does the rest of the Chamber, I can turn my head, but it won't happen. Fortunately, I'm just saying, because that's how the relationships are in the Netherlands. At the same time, Mr Madlener might also be able to reflect on his voting behaviour. Why, for example, did he support the abolition of the milk quota at the time? Why was Mr Madlener in favour of PAS legislation at the time? Again, he wouldn't have been the only one, otherwise those laws wouldn't have gotten through here, but it would be a pleasure for him to reflect on that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u23	I actually agree with that, and that goes for the whole Parliament, of course. It's about who makes those decisions. The milk quota has been abolished and I think that many farmers are now longing for a milk quota. At least you know what you're up to and you don't have to breed super cows. You'll just have certainty about what you can do. That milk quota was once abolished, also by the VVD, from the idea of achieving it with fewer rules. It has now led to a jungle of rules. Last but not least, the jungle of rules. No one understands anymore. Every week the newspaper is full of reports about how complicated it is, how debatable it is, how something is changed every time and how it destroys the entrepreneurs. The whole system that is now in place, with all this rights and complexity, is not right. I really need a line through that right now. I am partly responsible for abolishing the milk quota, which is true, but we should not continue on this road now. No one knows where he is anymore and this gives total uncertainty to entrepreneurs. This doesn't give us a future. There really needs to be a line through all those rules. I will also come up with a motion on this later and I hope that the Minister will take a broad look at how we can make things better for farmers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u24	I spend every day trying to see how I can make things better for farmers, fishermen, nature and gardeners in the Netherlands. That is what we need to have the debate on: what do we mean by "better"? I am pleased, though, that is what I think the profit of these evenings is going to be, as Mr Madlener says: perhaps we could have made other choices as well. I will not just refer to the VVD, because I think he agreed to it at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u25	I agree with Mrs Bromet that it is a very difficult task to be Minister of Agriculture now. I'm sure the Minister has tried things. But the problem is that it is time for fundamental change and that we not only have the responsibility to make those choices that really help agriculture towards the future and give farmers real prospects for the future, but that it also means that we have to look further than where we come up with compromises. I say to this minister what I also said to Secretary of State Dijksma at the time: I know the Pappenheimers. I know what this minister has to do with the groups of VVD and CDA. But the Minister, who is responsible for where the farmers and agriculture are going, must simply have the courage to say out loud in this Chamber: 'Come up with your proposals, Mrs Lodders, and I will say that what you want will be a tragedy; come up with your proposals, CDA Group, I will respond; I will show that this will mean that farmers still have to invest in new technology, because we already know that we are not going to achieve the goals'. The Minister was right to say that if farmers invest, it is for years. You're gonna need years of payback. And then, because you didn't have the guts at the beginning, after five years, you have to say: oh, you didn't get the phosphates, you didn't get the nitrogen, you didn't get the biodiversity, you still need a little more. We know now. My call has always been: just confront those parties if they don't want to. Get it out of the back rooms. We'll do it here in the debate. And then anyone who knows anything about agriculture can see that the proposals that the VVD still comes up with, which the CDA still comes up with, do not help the farmer and that agriculture will continue to fade away. That is the debate I would like to have. I will not deny that it is a difficult task for the Minister. But throw it in here. Because now there are decisions that we already know aren't going to work. For example, the milk quota. That was just stupid. Who warned you? The Party for Animals, the SP, GroenLinks. We got hoarded. You see the shit it's gonna do. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen: We knew it. Willfully and knowingly, because the political courage was lacking. Now let's not make that mistake again. It's really time. It is really time for sustainable agriculture, with future, in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u26	What I always like about Mrs Ouwehand is that she is very consistent in her speech. There's never a surprise in it, which makes you think, "I've never heard that before." In the end, she draws a conclusion from that. I heard her do that yesterday. She said that there should be 75% fewer animals in the Netherlands. That's the final conclusion that comes out of it. Then I turn to a number of other matters, which I also mentioned in the introduction. Our role as the Netherlands, and that is not only in production, but also in our knowledge and skills, in everything we can use to ensure that people have enough food in this world. We need a basis for this in this country, so that we can continue to develop that knowledge and skills. As a country, as a prosperous country, we have a great responsibility with which we can bring other countries, where it is really not as prosperous as here, into something as big as a food issue. Then you can have a discussion about where that leads, no matter how many animals and whatever. But if I were to follow Mrs Ouwehand's line, there would not be so much left of it. Then, I guess, we wouldn't be able to take such a leading position anymore. Then we could say: we have done well for ourselves. But then I would find that a lack of responsibility towards other countries, where I believe we can contribute a great deal. If I stretch out the whole continuum in this Chamber for a moment and charge a little bit, Mr President, then there are parties who say: leave the whole agriculture alone and let it go; there is nothing going on at all. There are also parties who say that there is absolutely nothing left in this area; we should not want any of this anymore. I think that's a challenge. If Mrs. Ouwehand is in charge alone, she won't make it. What steps could it take to move forward? Where could she say: hey, here we see options and possibilities? Perhaps then she can recognise that the cabinet is certainly taking a number of steps. Steps that I think could actually be in her line. I think it would be very strong if that were to happen, and if she says that we can go forward with that. Again, I try to say that in my introduction about someone who only says what he thinks and does not try to listen to what he can do with the other. That is indeed the essence of a coalition. We always have to listen to each other. We always have to try to get in there. It worked. I would like Mrs Ouwehand to reflect on that point too. I'm going to ask questions back now, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if you'll let me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u27	Sure. You can always do that. I will certainly not deny that the Minister has come to an agreement with the coalition. But you can't tell farmers that you want a ribbon because you got out with each other. The Court of Auditors has again reported on it, not too long ago: this system, the cabbage and the goat want to save, leads to enormous regulatory burdens for farmers. It's driving them crazy and the problems aren't solved. We can disagree, but not on the facts. I call upon the Minister to do so. The Minister would like to say to the Animal Party, I thought it was funny, that Mrs Lodders brought that up, that we have a responsibility for people in countries that have it heavier. Yeah. The first step you have to take is to recognise that the Netherlands makes it harder for people there. That is what we are doing with the import of food for our livestock, whereas that food could have fed many more mouths. The livestock industry is a food waster, instead of creating food. 80% of the world's cereal harvest goes to animals. Do you know how many people you can feed if we make that directly available to people? How much space is available for nature? How many climate targets do we achieve if we stop doing that? So don't touch the fact that we have a responsibility for other countries. That is precisely the responsibility we must take. So my appeal is to stick to the facts. The minister knows him. She can't deny that. Remkes has been asked to advise on nitrogen. He calls 50% reduction, and then the coalition comes by 26%. You know that's not enough, right? Or are you saying you think Remkes is just a brat? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u28	On the issue of, for example, the use of cereals for animal feed, I agree with Mrs Ouwehand. That is precisely why we have become much more at the centre of circular agriculture. That's the transition we're going into. That's what we're doing. We must ensure that we use things for animal feed that we can no longer use in our human consumption, but are able to use them very well and contain enough protein. Are these always the appropriate things we use now? No. On the contrary, we must and are very hard at work to ensure that this change is made. I am working in Europe to achieve this, because there are real opportunities there, especially for the farmer's income. If you can use things that are now worthless for animal feed and thus save costs for the farmer, for all kinds of other things that he has to use, that is win-win. That is profit for the environment, profit for the environment, but certainly also profit for the farmer's income. Those are the paths we're always looking for. With Mrs Ouwehand, this leads to the conclusion that there should be 75% fewer animals. Then I say, there are other ways. We can also take care in other ways by means of new techniques, but also by using things that we now make worthless, those residual flows that we really have a future for livestock farming in the Netherlands, and at the same time ensure that livestock farming is in balance with the environment. That's what I'm really committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u29	Finally. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. When the Minister arrived, we simply laid down all the facts about agriculture. The Party for Animals didn't make it up. There are all kinds of institutions that have long been saying that this is no longer the case. Former CDA Minister Veerman says that the system has stalled and that you may have to admit that there is no place for intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. The facts are not new. The point is that it takes courage to free farmers from this system and make fundamental choices. In these choices, you have to look at everything you have to achieve: animal welfare, climate, biodiversity, a future perspective for farmers. Then you really come to the large number of animals that are bred, used and killed in the Netherlands. That's untenable. That's gonna have to go down drastically. The Minister can reach 50%, the Animal Party reaches 75%, but the Minister cannot insist that nothing is needed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u30	In my view, I started my reign by laying down a vision, in which I said that we should do things differently, because this is not the way to go about it, in which we must involve all the options and not just argue from one solution. That is the essence of working in a coalition, but also the essence of how you progress in society. So if Mrs Ouwehand says I'm denying this, that doesn't seem right to me. I would say: read the vision in Valuable and Connected again. I think what I've said now is in one of the first sentences of that piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u31	When I listen to my colleague Ouwehand's long speech, I have ten interruptions, but I cannot do them this way, so I am not going to do that either. Let me make another point. When I kicked off our CDA contribution last night, I talked about that farmer's wife and family. The summary was: uncertainty and also not the impression that society had a good feeling about them. I used the word "misconception" in that context. I was just listening to the Minister's opening words. It often happens to me that I listen with a farmer's ear. "What good would it do me?" Was one of the first things that came to me like that, "I'm willing to change things, but how is that going to work?" I'm just gonna pick out one element. The Minister talked about the conversion fund. That was in a letter that came to the Chamber six or seven days ago, in the big pile that came towards us. I was reading that letter recently and I thought: my funding is getting much higher. And now that I'm reading it right, I'm thinking, what's this gonna solve? My mortgage at the bank is only getting higher. And the government's gonna vouch for that to some extent. If I see that in the context of the new Basel IV requirements, then that is going to go very badly. I have to get more money to my company, so what? Do I know that my income is going to guarantee that, too? I'm worried about that. If I put this to the Minister like that, what's her reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u32	That switching program has multiple tracks. Mr Geurts saw the same thing. One of these tracks is aimed at companies that now want to switch from, for example, common to organic. They must meet the requirements of organic products for two years, but they must not sell their products at that additional price. This is an obstacle for many farmers to actually be able to take that step. They just can't get it around at the bank. With this arrangement they may be able to obtain it from the bank, because we guarantee it in the event that it is not going well. So this starts with a movement that's already going on. By the way, it was also a motion by Mr Bishop asking for this transition to be made easier. In many areas, this applies not only to the companies covered by the switch-over programme, which, if we are asking for innovations, we are also asking for investment. I recognise this, including with a number of parties here who are asking: can the farmer earn it back when he has to do that innovation? I think that is a very real question. I'll be right on the block about the farmers' position in the chain. I believe that much more is needed there than just looking at what kind of investment such a farmer should do and whether he can finance it. No, that's a lot more about what we pay for our food and what that farmer actually gets in his wallet for what he delivers. How's it going all over the chain? So funding is not an isolated issue. Funding is always related to the question: can I earn it back as a farmer? That will have to be looked at. Dan Basel IV. I shall come back to that later in my text, but the questions are all being raised. A number of things in Basel IV are worrying, also because the farmer's ability is much less looked at, and much more at the cash flow and earning capacity of the farmer. I would like to stress that once again we need to take all the steps I have announced in the entrepreneurial agenda to ensure that this farmer gets a better position in the chain. Otherwise, we can have any kind of arrangement... If the company gets more extensive, it's gonna cost money. If the farmer has to innovate, it costs money. If he has to switch, it's gonna cost him. A lot of the arrangements we come up with here cost money. In the end, it's about whether that farmer can make it back. We have a responsibility here, but society as a whole certainly has a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u33	I would like to go deeper with a practical example. What if I'm a pig farmer? I want to switch to biological. There's a waiting list for that right now. I just don't get in there as a pig farmer. So that's not gonna work. However, I have to go that way, because here is a whole Chamber majority saying it needs to be organic. How are we going to shape that? That market does not accept that. There's a waiting list for it. There's just no take-off. The consumer says that it is too expensive for me, so I am not going to do that. So how do we deal with that, even in such a conversion fund? It's nice that people are thinking about it. Mr Bishop has regular good motions. We also support them on a regular basis. That's not the problem. But at the practical point you've come to now, you don't need a switch fund like that. You just don't end up in that organic sector because there's a waiting list for that and the consumer doesn't take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u34	I'm not gonna tell you right now that's not gonna do you any good. I really think that's a far too quick conclusion. Sometimes I think that Mrs Ouwenhand sometimes jumps to conclusions. This time, I think that Mr Geurts is drawing too fast a conclusion. This also means, however, that we must do something about how we can better sell our products, including organic products. That is exactly why I am dealing with my German colleague. Next week we have a conference across national borders, with the French, with the Germans. It was organized on the initiative of the Dutch, to look at this particular issue. How, for example, can you ensure that certain labels not only stand for something in one country, but in many more countries? We see that our products cross borders. We're looking for a way the products can stand for something. You don't only know in the Netherlands what it means when you are with a particular label or label, but then it also stands for it in another country where the marketing is organized. So you can ask for the extra price for that. That's exactly what we're doing. I also hope to inform Mr Geurts about the outcome of that conference. I do think that we not only have the push side, but certainly also the pull side to organize the necessary things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u35	The Minister started with the question: how do we look back on this after ten years? Then we'll have to wait ten years. However, we can already see very large differences in how these transitions are approached by the various transitions in society. In the energy transition we see that seven parties have found a common legal basis. The question of whether something should change and what should change has been answered and depoliticized. In agriculture we see that there is a circular vision to which each party gives a different explanation. In the climate issue, parties were removed from their shooters' pits and sat down at the table. This is where all the parties are mostly still in their shooter's pits. We also see that the Climate Act has been transformed into a Climate Agreement with hundreds of different measures. The most important thing about these measures is that they are coherent. There's a whole cycle of how that's guarded. I do not see that at all in the transition for which this minister is responsible. That's what my question to her is about. I have put forward proposals for this too. I would also like to see a good earning model - that is a hobby I share with Mr Geurts, I want to improve the quality of nature and I want to improve the quality of food. My question to the Minister is: look at these different approaches. Isn't there something to learn from the Climate Law and the Climate Agreement and the whole transition we stand for with the energy? Shouldn't the Minister learn from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u36	I am trying to interpret Mr Moorlag. I agree with him if he means: this is not an issue that can only be solved as a political one or only as a farmer or only as a nature or only as a science. It shouldn't be the case that everyone on their island comes up with their own ideas. You have to do it in conjunction with each other. I agree with Mr Moorlag. That, I believe, is what I just argued in my introduction. By the way, the ten years were a metaphor. It's not like I don't want to think about what we're doing for another ten years. Mr Moorlag has often advocated an agricultural, nature and food agreement; I think that was about the term for that. I think it is important that we also deliver the debris, the building blocks, so to speak, towards a formation, for how to get on with a number of themes. As a department, we will make our contribution to this. Whether this should lead to something like an agricultural agreement on the climate agreement... I've been to meetings of people who were drafting the climate agreement quite a few times, and I can tell you that there have been some nightmares along the way. Those weren't always the most productive meetings. If you were to ask if we'd do that again, I don't know if everyone's going down the halls cheering, because it was quite a delivery, I can tell you. However, I agree with Mr Moorlag that there is a need to look more closely, in conjunction with each other. But I think that that is also an excellent thing that, for example, you can look at much more in a formation. Once again, we will also deliver the building blocks that are needed from our responsibility. But it is also not the case that we have not so far been looking in conjunction with parties. We are already really working on this in a group in which these chain parties, nature organisations, the agricultural organizations, science and science are all together. But when I hear it like that, you mostly want an agreement. I don't know if that should be the ultimate outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u37	I don't know. You also cannot put the model chosen at one transition, with copy-paste on the other transition. The Minister says: I'm in the process of inventorying building blocks for that. It is very good that the Minister does so, but puts parties in their responsibilities. Put parties in the chain in their responsibility. Let's see what their building blocks can be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u38	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u39	And not only in terms of content, but also in terms of process. Hence my call for a scout to be systematically portrayed by those parties. My question to the Minister is whether she has that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u40	We are already inviting those parties to this. It's already happening. There will soon be a few more matters to be dealt with. I don't do that under the direction of a scout, but I do it on my own responsibility. I think it is also my job to ensure that those different parties in the chain themselves are challenged to indicate what they can contribute to that transition and what their part in the whole can be. That is what we are working on, and I hope to make it more clear very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u41	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to talk to farmers; I would also like to thank the common farmers, who represent most of the Netherlands. My question concerns the following. I am pleased that the Minister has supported, or at least positively assessed, my input on the focus on food production and certainly supply worldwide. Last week I have Mrs Ouwehand's colleague, Mrs Ouwehand, who is not in the Chamber at the moment; or yet, look, there she is! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The same goes for the point I was trying to make. We're talking about the Farm to Fork strategy right now. I have heard the Minister's introduction and the introductory remarks just now when Mr Geurts interrupted, who wondered what this really means and what a farmer hears when he listens to the Minister's introduction. He wonders if he can do something with it. I read the answers to the written questions for which I thank you and missed a response in the Minister's introduction to my question on the views of the US Department of Agriculture on what this Farm to Fork strategy means for the Netherlands, for Europe and in particular for food production. Because that ministry really warns that agricultural production is falling, that agricultural income is rising, that is the question, you can ask a number of questions about food prices rising extremely and that hunger can rise very quickly. That is, in fact, contrary to what I hear the Minister say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u42	Of course, we also discussed this report in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. We, as Member States, had already asked for an impact analysis, including on Farm to Fork, precisely because we want to know these things. What does it mean if you just do this? What does that mean for the choices you might have to make in there? So I really don't want an American report to say anything about that, I just want a better understanding of it from Europe. As joint Member States, we have asked the Commission to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u43	I understand. And indeed, we have often crossed swords about this strategy, both here in the committee rooms and in writing. But I do think it is important, because the US Department of Agriculture seems to be farther than the European Commission or we in the Netherlands are looking at the impact. They are giving a warning, and I really think that is a serious warning. This point is actually reflected in the Minister's introduction. Of course we also have our concerns; we want to see what agriculture and food production mean for our environment and the environment. However, the issue of food, food production, sufficient food for everyone in this world is lacking in the reports and analyses, as I have often shared with the Minister. So I really ask the Minister to come back in a written response to the analysis that the US Department of Agriculture has now made. Because it's really worrying and we can't wait much longer for this. Colleagues here in the Chamber often use the Farm to Fork strategy as a guideline and the Minister also points out it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u44	However, I would like to ask you to put the pressure on the European Commission's impact analysis. I have no reason to distrust the US Department of Agriculture or anything like that, but I can see that they have an interest in keeping a very large market open here. So the choices made here, on this continent, also affect what is happening in America and the impact on their agriculture. That is why I want to have this discussion with the Commission itself. Because I think it is the Commission that is first able to talk to it. I do not want to do that through a report from the US Department of Agriculture, which will also look at the situation from its own perspective. I simply want to do it on the basis of what the Commission itself stated in the impact analysis. I've already promised your Chamber that when the impact analysis comes, we'll see what it means for the choices you make from the Farm to Fork strategy. I have very recently urged the Commission to keep pace with this. Because we just need that information to get back on this path.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u45	Speaking of tempo...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u46	Yeah, I'm gonna move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u47	We're done with the block in general now. I have allowed very long interruptions; it is very good to look at the whole policy area from a distance. This is what we have done. Interrupts from now on just go short and pointy. I would like to suggest the same thing in the direction of the Minister: keep it short and pointy. I'd say put the turbo on! Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u48	Very good, Mr. Chairman. Then we get to the block about the farmer's position. I mentioned that a good earning ability is really a prerequisite for a transition that we can enter. I just mentioned the Agricultural Entrepreneurship Agenda. Mr Geurts asked about this. Explicitly, he wants to know how to improve the farmer's market power. The package consists of the bill of unfair commercial practices, which is now before your Chamber and I hope to be able to deal with it quickly, the Agro-Nutri Monitor of the Authority for Consumer & Market, the cooperative ambassador, who has been appointed following a request, a motion from Mr Geurts, the amendment of the Competition Act, the legislative proposal for sustainability initiatives, which is still with my colleague from EZK, and the increase of market transparency at EU level. Promoting a level playing field is also an important pillar of this. Mr Geurts asked: how is it that the Young Farmers' Fund does not have a storm? I'm just saying it in my own words. That fund was opened up at a time when many young farmers experience uncertainty about their future, both because of nitrogen and because of the COOVID-19 crisis. Against this background, a number of companies appear to be delaying investments and acquisitions. I understand that. We keep our finger on the wrist, together with the NajK, which is closely involved in this. We recently held a webinar together with NAJK to bring the fund to the attention of the target group and to answer questions that live on it. Mr Bishop asked: are the ecosystem services sufficient for the farmer to maintain his income? I think it is precisely an opportunity for farmers to maintain these ecosystem services. Farmers will then have the opportunity to get an income from the market and also have an income by contributing to public targets in relation to nature, climate and biodiversity. There is also a margin on top of the compensation for the costs and the loss of income. In this way the farmer can make choices that fit his own business model. I do not want to distinguish between the initiatives, but I see, for example, a Biodiversity Monitor on dairy farming, which rewards a certain large milk cooperative and a large bank farmers who score well. Such initiatives give farmers the opportunity to make those choices. There are also other issues of importance for the farmer's earning capacity. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Geurts on Basel IV. We are looking closely at the impact that this can have on the financing of companies. We keep a sharp finger on the wrist there. I would like to emphasise that it is important that companies and government continue to cooperate with science. We grew up once because of the Golden Triangle. As far as I am concerned, we must intensify and continue to use it because mutual commitment is essential to combine the challenges that lie ahead with the ability of a farmer to earn a good living. Mrs Dik-Faber specifically asked about the Mansholt campus. This is an initiative by a number of parties in a given area to make farmers and local citizens invest together in a sustainable local food system. It also looks at other goals in the living environment, such as biodiversity and climate. This initiative is in line with the initiatives we are already taking. I would like to continue the consultation with the initiators, also to see how I can make a more effective contribution to this. I think it is important to join existing initiatives and pathways, and to involve the provinces as well. I believe that we should not only do it from The Hague, but that we should do it with each other. I am therefore prepared, as Mrs Dik-Faber asked, to see how we can contribute to this from our point of view. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the next issue that is very important: innovation. Knowledge and innovation are at the basis of the success of a sustainable Dutch agriculture and horticulture and fisheries. We encourage this innovation in different ways. You have already seen several schemes coming along, for example on stable measures, source-oriented sustainability and management measures. We have launched several actions to speed up the innovation process. In this way, we are all trying to make a contribution to getting that off the ground. Mrs Lodders asked for this very specific attention. She said: those applications, those innovations, are there, but how quickly will they eventually be scaled up? How fast does it get to maturity? Let me put it this way. She had an example of that. I actually found that a somewhat embarrassing example. Someone got in trouble because all kinds of deadlines kept running for a long time. I often hear sounds that things don't always go fast enough there. She had a specific proposal for the appointment of an envoy. It could be an option to see if there is someone who can bring certain parties, worlds, a little more together to make sure that there really is an acceleration in some of the processes that are underneath: the deadlines that are going through, the approval processes and all of those things. I think that's an interesting thought Mrs Lodders has given us. I was also asked about CRISPR-Cas. Mrs Lodders and Mr Weverling have already touched on this. They asked me whether I would like to make a commitment to this in a European context. I'm already doing that. The new plant breeding techniques can contribute to achieving our sustainability objectives and circular agriculture. I am also in favour of applying a technique such as CRISPR-Cas, provided that it does not exceed species limits. Last year, in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, I called for more work to be done on this, including within Europe. At that time, the decision was also taken to include new processing techniques and the adaptation of GMO rules in the agenda of the European Commission. By 30 April 2021, the European Commission will also have to come forward with an examination of the status of new processing techniques. The Commission is expected to come up with a follow-up path. You can say that it will all take a long time, but if it does, it will be a first significant step towards the review process. But I continue to emphasise this urgency with a number of like-minded Member States. There are a number of people who see more possibilities in this and I am working closely with them. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis in the agricultural sector has put the issue at the forefront. But that actually applies to all sectors, not just agriculture. This applies to the whole of the Netherlands. Mrs Lodders asked about the ABN AMRO report. It outlines the impact it has. I recognise that it is said and concluded that the impact of the corona crisis on the agricultural and horticultural sector is potentially very large. I also see in practice that many agricultural sectors are simply struggling, especially now that the crisis is continuing. Several Members from your Chamber, Mr Bishop, Mrs Lodders and Mr Geurts, have expressed concerns about the situation in calf farming. The calf sector has been hard hit by the drop in demand and low prices. As promised, last Wednesday, on 18 November, I discussed this with LTO and three calves. In that conversation, of course, we first heard the personal stories, among others from young families who had just started a company or had just taken over and who are now caught up. Those were indeed emotional conversations. We have also talked about the schemes that exist, the generic aid measures, such as the Guarantee SME-Agricultural loans, the TVL, the postponement of tax payments, the NOW and the Tozo. The Guarantee SME-Agricultural loans can help agricultural and horticultural companies affected by the negative economic impact of the corona crisis to solve acute liquidity problems, but it must also be done in practice. I'm getting reports from companies experiencing difficulties getting access to this facility. I say it through this platform, but I also address them myself: I also count on the banks. If we make an arrangement, I'm counting on them to offer it, and that's what they're doing in the knowledge that we as a government guarantee that sort of thing. Not that people say: you can get a loan, but then you will have to make a refund immediately, right, in the first month. 'Cause they just can't. Then you offered it in theory, but then it doesn't do anything in practice. I will just mention that here, but I am addressing the banks myself. You can also be sure that I am having an intrusive conversation with the banks on that point. Several parties also asked me if the TVL could be made more appropriate for the farms in the agricultural sector. The TVL has recently been widened. The conditions have also been adapted so that agriculture and horticulture can make use of them. The first companies have already submitted applications. I will also remain in talks with the Ministry of EZK and with RVO to resolve, where possible, any implementation technical problems faced by farmers. It's in definitions sometimes. What exactly do we mean by that? A number of cases, problems that have been identified, have also been picked up. There is still a discussion within the cabinet about how the support package should look after 1 January. I cannot, of course, anticipate this, but you can imagine what I am doing in this area, including in the field of agriculture and horticulture, namely that I do not see that this can be done by the end of this year. But, as has been said, the decision-making process in the cabinet has yet to take place. So we are still looking with the Minister of EZK, who is the primary responsibility for the scheme, at how we can shape it in such a way that the scheme also provides relief for the sectors for which we are responsible, of course in the hope that it will no longer be necessary in the end; that would be the very best thing. Mr. Chairman. That was the block about the farmers' position and everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u49	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u50	A very specific question in relation to the Corona aid package. Thank you for the clear words towards the banks. Let me begin by expressing my heartfelt support for it. Wear it out! I wish the Minister every success, because it is necessary. My specific question is about the TVL. The Minister has spoken to those calf farmers. Can the Minister state that this is allowed now, but it can also be done in a letter, whether these specific people can actually use the TVL?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u51	That depends on the concrete... I need to explain. The TVL compares this quarter with the same quarter a year before. This means that it will provide some relief, but not some of it, because in that quarter, for example, those people did not slaughter their animals. I hope you have heard, among the companies, what I am committed to in relation to the TVL, on which the decision by the cabinet really has yet to be taken. I think that would provide room to ensure that it could provide more relief for more companies in this way. I need to talk to flour in my mouth a little bit. I hope Mrs Lodder hears that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u52	We hear the flour. Mr Geurts, brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u53	I have a question about the young farmer's fund, which the Minister has just spoken about. One of the elements in this is that if you make a takeover, you can use the Young Farmers' Fund and that your profitability and future prospects, after you have made use of it, should be better than when you started the takeover. I understand from the field that it's pretty hard looked at how you can prove it. My specific question is: is the Minister prepared to have that looked at, so with practical examples to make it clear when and when you do not qualify for it? Because I see that this is a threshold for a lot of young farmers and farmers to look at this scheme at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u54	Can I ask Mr Geurts to be more specific? What should be looked at? Can he describe that exactly, so I also know exactly what to find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u55	I would also like to ask that in a different way, but what is at issue at the heart of the matter is that you have to demonstrate that profitability. After you take over, the profitability and therefore your future prospects must be better than before that takeover. It is difficult to see how you can prove it, when it is good and when it is not good. If there might be some explanation of how to read it, then I think more use will be made of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u56	I'm willing to look into that. If that is unclear, and I hear that is the case, then I would simply like to make it clear. I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u57	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u58	It is very good that the Minister is also aware of the need in various sectors. I drew a bit of attention to a rather specific sector in that area, namely the free calf farmers. They're all the way between hammer and anvil, you might say. This also applies to duck farms; there are only a few of them. My question to the Minister was whether she was prepared to pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u59	The calf farmers I spoke to were free calves. I just talked to them. That was also the request of the Chamber. So I also spoke specifically to that group. If Mr Bishop asks if I am going to make a specific arrangement for this group or for the duck holders, the line of the cabinet is that we have generic measures and that we ensure that the sectors can participate in them. That's what the stakes are for. It is therefore not going to be a specific regulation for these sectors, nor is it going to be for other food sectors, which are not having an easy time at the moment. The cabinet has just decided not to have sectoral arrangements, but generic ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u60	I understand that, but that means that the companies concerned can now use these generic schemes under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u61	Yeah, that's what the conversation was about that I had with those calf farmers: what they ran into in the arrangements. A big hiccup was of course that the TVL was not open to agriculture and horticulture at first. That's true by now. Once again, you have just heard how I think and hope it will happen afterwards. In this way we offer the calf farmers more possibilities that were not there at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u62	We've done 15 minutes in one block. I hope you can speed it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u63	I think I'll keep the pace, Mr. Chairman! Then I get to the block about the NVWA. Quite a few questions have come from your room. Over the past period I have sent several investigations to your Chamber about the functioning of the NVWA and the system within which the NVWA carries out its work. The NVWA has also carried out a rethink itself. This process has been closely followed by an independent advisory board which I appointed and which provides advice to the NVWA IG, and also to me. With the completion of the rethinking and an investigation into the tasks and resources of the NVWA..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is now time to make sure that we actually implement some of those improvements. That's what the NVWA is working on now. In the letter in which I outlined the system analysis on the approval and supervision of the LNV domains, I also announced that I would really like to look more fundamentally at how we have set it up now, to do justice to the root causes of the tensions. It concerns the way in which approval and monitoring has been organised in the animal sector. It is also about the way in which the financing of the NVWA for inspection work is arranged. Mrs Lodders also asked me to look specifically at what tasks could possibly be invested elsewhere. That's what I'm gonna get involved in. The examination of NVWA's tasks and resources confirms the view that, in the current situation, the social mission cannot be sufficiently carried out in all respects. A capacity increase would then be the easiest. You'd almost say, "Make sure people join us," and the problem will be solved. I only believe that this is not the only solution. It's also about how we organized certain things. But it's also very practical: it's not like I can just hire people right now. For example, the vets are highly specialised professions and there is a huge shortage of them, partly because of all the problems surrounding the Brexit. There's just a run on vets going on in Europe right now. The NVWA therefore also has to do with labour shortages. But also, for example, issues such as labour market perspectives within an organisation play a role. Do people want to stay? Do they want to go somewhere else? So it's not just the immediate expansion of capacity; there's much more underneath. I think it is important to look at this more fundamentally, and not every time we think it will be better if we let it grow, because then it will not work. Then there is animal welfare legislation. Compliance with this is, of course, an essential part of the work of the NVWA. Inspections on animal welfare shall also be carried out in conjunction with other monitoring activities, for example in the field of veterinary medicinal products. Bringing animal welfare teams to another ministry, as Mr Graus explicitly asks, would in fact shred more control of the animal welfare domain and also make it less efficient. Some of them are at Justice, but others require someone to come along for medicines, for example. The question was also whether police could go along with the inspectors' company visits. It's not standard for company visits. However, in some situations there are police in the neighbourhood, for example, if you know that there are a lot of animals on a farm that are bad and that they need to be taken away. But it's not like we're going to introduce that standard now. Mr Wassenberg asked very explicitly about the supervision of the illegal trade in dogs. He asked me to look at the broad perspectives for action as well. In March of this year, the police, the NVWA and the Member started a task force on the trade in dogs in order to ensure that the enforcement of the trade in dogs is as effective as possible. The National Inspection Service also focuses on the control of the cat trade. That is what Mr Wassenberg asked for. The Member shall check on the basis of notifications. In addition, a number of routine checks have been carried out on cat breeders. However, there were no farm breeders of cats. They are also mostly private breeders. No animal welfare abuses were found during these checks. Mr Graus also called for a rotation system of NVWA enforcers. He says that this gives a bit of a fresh look, including at the companies, and ensures that there are no too close links between companies and inspectors. I recognise that a healthy distance from the companies is important in the work. But sometimes it also gives a clearer picture when an NVWA employee knows a company better. So there are two sides to this story. For this reason, the NVWA should always look for a good balance sheet and also take into account the legal frameworks applicable to carrying out the inspections, e.g. when using camera surveillance. As I mentioned earlier, the total available capacity of veterinarians is limited due to a tight labour market. In order to complete the robust task of monitoring in the meat chain, it should be handled carefully. Nor can I ask the impossible of the NVWA and the inspectors. I have also indicated that the NVWA is limited in what it can do, but there is no doubt that employees should be able to do their job safely. I repeat that to Mr Graus. Mr Wassenberg had another specific question about the clearance of the mink farms and poultry farms. He asked where that capacity actually came from. These clearances are carried out by inspectors of the NVWA together with externally hired capacity. The NVWA inspectors often make extra hours, overtime. There are also cases where the frequency of the regular monitoring work is adjusted. That's not always in one place. Often people in random places are asked to temporarily help with the clearances. It is not the case that one domain is burdened with this standard; let me put it this way. As far as the staff concerned are concerned, it has not been at the expense of statutory inspection work in the slaughterhouse and export certification. Mr Graus had another question about the whistleblowers. He has indicated that there are several signals from whistleblowers. I take the signals from the NVWA employees seriously. There are also many employees who bring them up in an irregular manner. It's not just me. The interim of the NVWA also takes these signals extremely seriously. As you know, during my term of office I have spoken several times with staff and also with groups of staff. You referred to that yourself. The Interim Group also has talks and conducts an internal dialogue. He also organizes these in full. There is good listening and there is room for different sounds and views. We also look at how we talk to each other and not just about each other. Employees are also really given the room to put the pain points on the table with the executives, because that is where the conversation has to take place. I indicated in my letter of 16 October that the tensions caused by the root causes of the monitoring and approval system deserve a solution. I would like to take further steps in the coming months with the NVWA. I understand that the ig has indicated that he will be happy to engage with your Chamber together with the sg, and also have a confidential conversation to discuss with each other about the approach of rethinking. I understand your Chamber is sympathetic to that. I think that's a good thing. Mr President, this was the block of NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u64	Then there is a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mr Wassenberg has already mentioned these combi teams in the budget for Justice and Security on our behalf. Make that a pilot! Now, why don't you go see how we can get those combi teams and the animal welfare teams into Justice and Security? Go check that out for a year. Because there are conflicting interests. The Ministry of LNV stands between the economic interests and the changed, maintaining interests and the animal welfare interests of the animal welfare team. That's what I'm asking. Thank you, Minister, for what you promised and also for the things you agreed with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u66	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u67	I'm gonna ask them now. Those whistleblowers are a very important thing. I think the whole room shares that. We would like to speak to those whistleblowers, but we hear from our clerk that the Minister must give permission to do so. The Minister has given me and other MPs individual permission a few times, but we would like to speak with a few MPs with whistleblowers from all areas, not from one area. They don't know each other at all, but they all want to say something. Mr. Chairman, then the last. I already mentioned that. There are just people who have worked for decades at the NVWA, the former AID, and never had a reprimand or a warning, but have been ripped out after they complained. You can't do that, can you? Those people just did their duty, didn't they? Don't we have to protect these people? I was very disappointed that Mr Futselaar was standing there now, my great friend also did not support that. I can't understand that. And Ronald van Raak, the initiator of the whistleblower's legislation, says that the MPs should be able to do it bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u68	I understand that the Chamber wants to talk to the ig, also to talk about this kind of thing. I think that's important. I said I'm okay with that, because even for that, I have to give permission. I think that's a good thing, because you can ask him all the questions you have. It is now more specific whether the Chamber should speak with all kinds of individual employees of the NVWA. I'd like to turn him around. You're putting yourself in a rather complicated position. This may lead to you having to talk to quite a lot of people later. Everyone's got another story. In fact, I also think that you have more to ask the ig and me about it, because we are ultimately responsible for what is happening, rather than having discussions with all kinds of individual workers as a committee, because they cannot do very much about it. You always have the right to speak one-on-one with people. I can't deny you the right to speak to anyone, and I know you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u69	The Minister has given several permissions to do so. It's about people exposing these abuses to me. I'll transfer that to the minister. It turns out the minister didn't know anything about it. But these people are bullying them away. One's been bullied away, another's been ripped out. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Those people were good. There were no complaints about those people. I had it figured out until the bottom rock was upstairs. Those people are good doctors, they're really good doctors. One has been bullied away, one has been cheated out and the others must all come on top of it. I understand they can't talk to us at all anymore, and they can't. Those people have brought scandals to light. If they hadn't, we'd never have known about it here. Mr. Futselaar, we're supposed to protect these people, aren't we? We can't abandon these people, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u70	In this way, you are already raising the issue. It is more of a choice for the committee itself, but I think you should be with the ig and with me. We are responsible for what is happening there. Those are the conversations you need to have with us. You will have the opportunity to do so, you will have the opportunity to do so today, you will be able to do so in a confidential conversation with the ig. There you can say all your comments and questions. That seems to me to be the best way to bring your questions and grievances to your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u71	First, very briefly, because I do not like to disappoint Mr Graus. I think whistleblowers should be protected, and I think MPs should be able to talk to whoever they want. This is for clarity, because when it comes to Buba I'm going to disappoint him, I'm afraid. I have a question for the Minister about her remark: you can say'more capacity', but that is very easy. I tripped a little bit about that. There is a report that says that on two thirds of the control tasks capacity is really a problem, a bottleneck. Then you can't help but notice that capacity is one of the problems? It's not the only problem, there's a culture, there's all things in the organization, but here's just a big problem. You have to draw conclusions from that and act on it. And yes, vets are a specific problem. That is why we have sometimes asked whether you should not increase that training capacity. But we must also note that we have to draw the wallet to make sure that this capacity is more in order, so that at least that part of the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u72	Over the last few years, with the coalition agreement, money has been added for the NVWA. That money is just sitting in people. There's more FTE added. Are we there? No, I produced the report myself, but the problems are more fundamental than just the number of FTE. I would like to look more closely at this fundamental issue. How do we relate to each other? How's the flow of finance going, including business? It is an endless source of discussion in which these issues keep getting mixed up. How does it work with how we've organized things now? I believe that we need to answer the questions and then decide what that means for the use of extra people. There are a number of things that need to be acute right now. We know that, and we're really trying to solve it in the organization. But it is not the case that no money has been added in recent years. On the contrary. But I'm afraid the problems haven't been solved yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u73	It is fine to have this wide-ranging discussion about the relationship between supervision and enforcement etc., but a controller who is looking for manure fraud in East Brabant and who sees that he has to cover a huge area on his own or in the two of us, of course, is not very helpful. He thinks: I should have eight colleagues here to make sure that we can really make a profit. Yes, the cabinet has invested money in it, but there was also an ICT problem that.. what was it? It has cost almost 100 million. When you cross things out against each other, it's kind of disappointing. I cannot blame the cabinet's investment, but we have a report that says that it is far too little there, there and there. That is why it is so good that there is an amendment that seeks to create additional money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u74	And whose amendment is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u75	I shall come back to that in a moment when the amendments are being examined. I am glad that Mr Futselaar is thinking with me. I'm not saying there's no issue and there shouldn't be anything there. Even if the inspector of the manure fraud was in that meadow and there were two or three colleagues, I think he would still say: is this the most effective way I can do my job?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u76	This afternoon, our policy officer referred to a number of observations she had observed during the budget debate. One of these is that there has been relatively little talk of money in the budget during the various contributions. I was quiet for a moment and thought: yes, you have a point. But it's gonna be okay tonight, I told her, because we're gonna talk about the NVWA. I've seen that there's been a digital consultation about the fees and then it stops. I do not see what the outcome is and what the Minister has decided on it. I'm curious about that. What will the Minister decide about the fees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u77	I'm going to inform you about that very soon. It's a little lame, but I'm going to inform the Chamber before 1 December about how I deal with the fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr Graus on this point and then we go to fishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u79	I would like to bring some peace to the camp, including those people, but I would like the Minister to guarantee it. There are six people who have gotten into trouble, possibly nine more. Those people need to be protected. I want the one who got kicked out last week protected. He has a wonderful track record; I've spoken to his team leaders and he's never done anything wrong. He gets bullied out because he leaked something that was scandalous and what middle management wants to keep under wraps, because the minister and the MPs aren't supposed to know. And this guy's getting ripped out? That man needs to get a statue here in the State Passage. Or better yet a bust, because a statue, you always have these little wieners and I don't like that at all... no, a bust. I really want the Minister to promise me that those people will give me their names and get protection until we talk to the ig. They've also spoken to Futselaar, at least some of them, so Futselaar shouldn't be so innocent. If one of those people's ig can prove that they did something and that there's a reason why they should be ripped out, I'll keep my mouth shut, but it's not. No one's gonna convince me because they're heroes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u80	I really believe that this Chamber should not discuss NVWA's personnel policy, and I will stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u81	We know the problems at NVWA. The Minister has admitted it before, and she will do it tonight. There are structural problems to find people. If 2.5 million animals are being hunted through a slaughterhouse every day and you can't find people to monitor the rules, you have to choose to bring down that number of animals, right? The number of animals will then have to be brought into line with the monitoring that can be carried out. We have made this call many times and I wonder why the Minister is not acting on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u82	Whatever needs to be inspected in the slaughterhouses is being inspected. That is our legal duty, and that is what is happening. This is about the large palette of activities of the NVWA. It is not just about approval but also about other aspects of supervision. For example, you can also look at what you can do with people who are not necessarily veterinarians, but who are knowledgeable. These are examples of how to recruit people who do not necessarily need to be trained as veterinarians. That's what they're all looking at. Mrs Ouwehand can rest assured that we approve what we must approve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u83	On Twitter, they'd say, "This is a storage know-it-all." The Minister says here: there are 2.5 million animals per day going through the slaughterhouse, there are major problems at NVWA, but don't worry, because the supervision of those 2.5 million animals per day is as we agreed, and that is what I guarantee. This is just a moment. I'm just gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mrs Ouwehand thus suggests that every day every animal that stands there is inspected. That is not the case in practice, and she knows it. There are also simply frameworks in which it has been agreed how the inspection should be carried out. Within these frameworks, the NVWA operates and I ask them whether that happens. They indicate that they can carry out the activities with the people they have within the frameworks we have agreed. That is different from what Mrs Ouwehand has suggested and how she thinks it should be. This is done within the agreed rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u85	I want to go fishing. But first, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u86	I think it's my last question. Mr Geurts had a question about the fees. The Minister has promised that this will come quickly to the Chamber and that no irreversible steps will be taken on that point. I'd like to hear confirmation of that. I heard the minister go into what's all there. We'd love to talk about that with the ig and the sg. My question is: why do I not hear in the Minister's response that she also looks more broadly, outside the NVWA, at what we can outsource to tasks? Not everything needs and can be invested within the NVWA. We have some very good examples. I know that the Minister was always critical of this, especially her predecessors, perhaps even stronger than this minister. We can invest a number of tasks outside the NVWA. This can often be more efficient and cheaper. I hope the Minister really wants to focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u87	I have just promised Mrs Lodder that I will look, if those are activities that we have on a... I will take what I have said. Let's see. "Mrs. Lodders's question to see what tasks could possibly be invested elsewhere, I am involved in the analysis." That's a part we're gonna look at. Your room is always gonna pull my coat when I do things you don't want to do. Those fees are due next year. If I send that to you at the beginning of December, I think you still have time to find something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u88	Supervision and enforcement: that is a cornerstone of our legal order. The Minister says that the NVWA cannot actually fulfil its social mission on about 100 of the 150 tasks. That's a big deal. I do not want to put the employees of the NVWA between hammer and anvil, because they are just doing their best. In my speech, I said that you should look not only at the level of organisation and at the level of action, but also at the level of the system. I have advocated that we look from the outside inside, at system level. My question to the Minister is: how is she going to organise that? Does she want to use someone who has authority, is independent and expert? The Minister himself is part of the system. The system will therefore have to be looked at from outside the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u89	I agree with Mr Moorlag. We're kind of on the same page tonight. I recognize that, too. He speaks of an authoritative figure from the outside. I have just mentioned all the advice I have given to the Council. Those are people who have nothing to do with the NVWA. A name is, for example, Mr Kronenburg. That's a former sg of Foreign Affairs, who has a lot of experience with organizations, including large organisations. He's in charge of this advisory board. I would like to give that Council a position to look at the analysis with that look. I'll ask them to do that. Those are people who are really sought out from their expertise and who have authority, people who really know something and who can be keen on it from their expertise. I'd like to fill that out that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u90	I understand that. Nor do I doubt the quality of the people. But I've seen the assignment before and it's mainly to look at organizational level. There really needs to be a big sting deeper here. The whole area needs to be involved. I think I even agree with Mrs. Lodders. I mean that sincerely. I believe that moving a number of tasks can also contribute to a solution, if it is done with good checks-and-balances and good incentives. But then we have to look at that level. My objection to the advisory board that has been set up, without compromising the quality of the people, is that its mission is to look at organisational level, while it is now also part of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u91	But we are also part of the system. Eventually, everyone will be part of the system. These are people who, for the rest, have absolutely nothing to do with the NVWA. They have just been asked from their expertise to look at this with a fresh look from the outside, let me say. At the same time, they know the organization. So they can also look faster back there. Let me put it this way. I do not have very much time to do this for many months to come. This just needs to happen fast. I like to do this with people who are independent, who know the organisation in part and who can also make sharp analyses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u92	I have a quick question. I would like to go back to Mr Graus's point on safety at NVWA. Unfortunately, I also get reports of an anxiety culture in parts of the NVWA. It's six people. Can you guarantee the safety of those people? I'd like a clear yes. Then the Chamber doesn't have to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u93	I think this is a very open question. I don't know what I'm saying yes or no to. Can I guarantee "safety"? I need to know what this is about, right? I think this is too open a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u94	I have informed your ministry once and again of what this is about and who it is about. I do not want to go into that now for this microphone, even in the interests of these people. I didn't just come here. I am asking for the people whom Mr Graus also referred to, one of whom has already been fired. They're intimidated and there's a culture of fear. I would ask the Minister to take that very seriously. That's what she does. I simply want to hear a yes to whether the safety of those people is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u95	I don't know what I'm saying yes to. I find that complicated. It's not like I don't want to answer that. "The safety of those people"; I need to know where they do not feel safe or where they are not safe. I would really advise you not to have a debate here at NVWA staff level. I don't think this is the place to do that. I have very regular conversations with the IG of the NVWA. May I be so bold as to say that statements in this Chamber about the fact that some people working at the NVWA are just a literal quote, chairman of the House of Representatives, are "hufters" coming into that organisation as well? I really do not want us to talk about people in this way, either on one side or on the other. These are issues that I am discussing with the ig. What's he gonna do about it? How does he get people to do their jobs right? Those are intrusive conversations. I don't think we should redo it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u96	I cast the terms the Minister uses far from me. I never used it. A lot of good people work at the NVWA. What I would like to draw attention to once again is the problems surrounding animal welfare. There's a culture of fear out there. The contrast of a culture of fear is a safe working culture. Can the Minister guarantee the safe working culture there? Then we don't have to interfere with personnel policy at all. I don't want to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u97	I have almost weekly conversations with the ig about the sailing at the NVWA. Topics that come up are, among other things, as I mentioned earlier, how to ensure that there are conversations in which people can openly tell how they feel. That they can speak openly to their superiors what they find. The ig says he goes to people the other time, and he does. He talks to people himself. Conversely, he says, please report to me, because I want to know what's going on. Come in and let me know what's going on, even if people feel unsafe. I can't estimate that. That's the place where that has to happen. You're gonna be talking to the ig soon, too. Then you can ask him how he does it. I'm not gonna repeat NVWA's personnel policy here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u98	That's not what this is about. The Minister is responsible for the safe working culture at NVWA. I call the Minister to that. I would remind the Minister that there was once a situation at the General Inspectorate, where culture was far from safe. And that's very vulnerable to a minister. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u99	I do not know what suggestions are being made here. The minister is in charge of the NVWA. I also point out that I have the conversations with the IG every week about this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u100	I appeal to the Minister whether she can guarantee a safe working culture. That's all. If she had just said yes to that, we would not have had this difficult conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u101	All I'm committed to, all I'm committed to, is to make sure people can do their jobs in safety. That's exactly what I'm saying. But if Mr De Groot asks if I can guarantee that this is the case, I say that these are individual experiences. Then he'll always say: I find someone here who doesn't think he can do his job safely. So I can't give you that answer. But all I am doing, as Mr Graus knows, is looking at how we can ensure that people can do their job well, in an environment where they simply enjoy doing their job, and where there is also openness to talk about things that are not going well. Is it always okay? Probably not. Probably not. Is it always good in your organization? I don't think so. But this is the commitment we are making. And I believe that there are real steps being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u102	Things don't always go well in my organization either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u103	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u104	I am going to try to remove this point from the cases and generalize it, because I do understand that there is discomfort to talk about it. Does the Minister agree that, whether it is the NVWA, whether it is the Ministry of LNV, or any organization, the criticism of the organisation's functioning should not be a reason for rebuttal, dismissal or any other employment penalty? I think that is actually what we are talking about here at the heart of the matter. In any case, there is fear, even among MPs, that this might play a part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u105	The latter is a crucial point. For you do not know that I do not know all at staff level, I must say what is going on in a particular case. And then we get back to the casusism. Should there be openness in an organization to tell your grievances, but also perhaps to express your fear or your sense of insecurity? Absolutely. I have these kinds of conversations with the ig. I do not need to urge him to tell everyone to please report to him when they do. His door's open. I think that is the right attitude, and he will continue to do so, because that is exactly what we are talking about. But in the end you come out in individual cases and I cannot, as a minister, make general statements about this. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u106	I have a very simple question. It is about something quite different, namely the dog trade task force that the Minister talked about. I didn't know that one. Can the Minister inform us not now, rather by letter later, but in the short term about the mandate and the implementation of this task force? I would like to know more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u107	I believe that I have already informed your Chamber of this. The task force was set up in March. That is the cooperation between the Member, the NVWA and the police. I believe that I have informed your Chamber of this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u108	Maybe I miss that information, but there's gonna be more MPs missing something sometimes. If the Minister can put something on paper about that and send it to us, she will make me and a number of other Members of Parliament happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u109	Should I look at whether I can refer in the second term to the letter in which it was written? I think this is just a little more effective than sending another letter on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u110	We've done 40 minutes over a block now. It's really gonna be night work this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u111	I'm getting to the animal welfare block. Mr De Groot asked that, in discussions with zoos on corona aid measures, attention be given to the conservation of breeding and expansion programmes of protected species. We are now working hard to implement this aid. This rule also takes into account the social value of zoos, including education and conservation. I hope to inform your Chamber at the beginning of next year about the precise design of the aid, including the implementation of an approved motion by a colleague of Mr De Groot, Mr Van Weyenberg. This motion also addresses this issue. Mr Graus asked if I could make a commitment on the Stable Safe system. I asked the partners of the Fire-Safe Usually Action Plan, including LTO, if they could have talks with the designers of the Stable Safe system. I checked and it turns out that there is no support and interest for the Stable Safe system within the livestock sectors. In the debate on animals in livestock farming on 29 October, I also indicated to Mr Graus that I do not think it would be useful to finance a pilot stall if people do not want to work with such a system. Mr Futselaar asked for binding rules to stop the day-old chicks sector. Mr Futselaar is always quite radical. He says right away: that must be stopped. I think we should also see what other options there are. For example, I know that there are initiatives in France and Germany to develop alternatives to killing one-day cocktails and to speed up these developments. I find that interesting. There are a number of techniques and innovations to prevent them from being killed as much as possible. I would like to say to Mr Futselaar that we are simply looking at what is needed to speed up the implementation of these initiatives. In fact, I think that there are still steps to be taken there. These experiences are now being gained in Germany and France. That way we can make sure that there really are alternatives to killing those animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u112	Was this the cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u113	No, I was still working on it. Moreover, the Dutch sector also commits itself in the Implementing Agenda Poultry sector to work towards those socially accepted solutions for killing one-day shams. This can be done, for example, by having a better view of the sex assessment in the egg. There are also other possible solutions, such as the fattening of the cocks and the use of double-target chickens. For all these options it is important that there is a sufficient market. I therefore believe that we should look at all these issues, as the sector itself has already planned, and that there should be an acceleration in order to bring them to the fore. Mr President, this was the block of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u114	Look, you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u116	In exchange for a commitment, I am often willing to review my radicalities. However, looking at alternatives is still very little concrete. It often helps when there is a deadline, a promise for a letter or something in that direction. This way, the Chamber has something of grip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u117	I'm not just gonna look at that. We are also going to see what is needed to accelerate these initiatives on the market and make them applicable. That is a very concrete aspect. I have a number of calls to make before that. Should I give you a stand-of-shop in February? Fine, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u118	Then there is another issue on animal welfare which has been dealt with in the written reply. This concerns the duck sector. The Minister does not want to abolish it. Here too, I'm going to see if I can be less radical. This concerns open water for ducks. The Minister says: I am talking to the sector to see what can be achieved there. I would perhaps accept that, if I were not standing here in 2018 with a motion from myself and Mr Grashoff. That says something about the dating. The minister said she was talking to the duck sector to see if water was possible. After two and a half years, I actually think that the time for conversations may be over. Shouldn't we take the step to regulate here after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u119	I would like to see for the second time what actually came out of these talks. Allow me to ask you a little bit more. At the same time, I would like to point out that there have been no ducks at all on many farms in the past period. Because of the corona crisis, there is very little happening in that sector. There is hardly any market there. I hope that Mr Futselaar will take this into account. But allow me to look at the state of play on the basis of those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u120	The Minister will not be surprised that I am not entirely enthusiastic about the written response on animal welfare. I believe that some steps can still be taken with regard to the restraining ban on this subject, and that the legislative proposal on this matter will not go to the Council of State until the end of the year, as well as with regard to the positive list and imports of animals from Eastern Europe. The same goes for the white list. It was in the coalition agreement, but it's not going to happen. I had hoped that the answer on Marketplace, which was fine in itself, would also say something about the commitment to look at the French registration. We have talked about this in the Animal Welfare AO of, I believe, October 29th. That French registration is a system with a code that is used when offering animals; this is an alternative to that white list that we originally agreed with each other, but which you do not consider feasible. Did you get a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u121	Just as specific about the white list, it was not about whether I thought it was feasible or not. I note that this white list makes it much more likely that the animals are supposed to come from good breeding, whereas we cannot really establish that at all. In other words, this list increases the risk of 'laundering', and I did not invent that word in the white list. This also increases the risk that you will approve something that is essentially not good. That's why we decided that you shouldn't want that at all. I think I had that debate with this Chamber too. We have now said that we are going to go much more European to see what bona fide breeding is. At the same time, with the dog passport and all that sort of thing, we try to close the net more and more in the country and so prevent illegal... dogs from coming out of very bad breeding programmes. So we really do that looking at what is effective and what isn't. The French registration is something I have to take out of my head, and I'm not ready to do it. Please allow me to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u122	I would like to add some extra to the debate on the ducks and the discussions on them. Minister Verburg was already in discussion with the bathing water sector in 2009. The conclusion is: it is too expensive; the sector is not going to do so. I would therefore like to return to Mr Futselaar's alleged radicality, which I think is not so bad, namely: then it is simply time to stop. The welfare of these animals is disproportionately affected. If you invest in water, these are investments that need to be recouped, while it is also a sector that has major risks for a bird pandemic. Mr Futselaar's position is therefore not so radical at all. I would like to call on the Minister to do so and to start with the cessation of duck farming in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u123	I also answered this question in writing, because Mr Futselaar also asked that specific question. I indicated in that statement that I would not go there. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the fishing block. A lot of questions have been asked about this. I understand that very well, because times are uncertain for our fishermen. They have had to deal with the ban on pulses, but also with the wind farms and the question of what is going on with the Brexit. These are all matters that concern people, fishermen. That is also the reason why I went with the fisheries in that North Sea consultation to see how we can ensure that there is a perspective for that sector, including all the challenges that there are, which I cannot all take away and for which we have to find a way to deal with. You are aware of the situation of the North Sea Agreement. I'm still convinced that what's there is more than the sum of the parts. I certainly support the ambitions of that agreement. Coupled with the North Sea Agreement, the cutter vision has also been established, together with the sector. You've been able to take note of that, too. I insist that it is precisely in the interests of fisheries that we should talk and therefore join the North Sea Agreement and the North Sea consultation. As I said before, that door remains open as far as I'm concerned. I shall, of course, take a good look at how this can be done socio-economically for the primary fisheries sector. I will also take with me the effects on the fishing communities, as Mr Madlener asked. I am pleased that the Administrative Platform for Fisheries, which represents the fishing communities, wants to play a role in this. A number of groups have asked me what I have done to ensure that pulse fish can be deployed as quickly as possible. We have, of course, received the positive advice from ICES. I have also brought this to the attention of the Commission, the Commissioner himself and the Member States. The Commissioner has promised me to include this opinion in the progress report on the Technical Measures Regulation. I expect it to be delivered in the second half of 2021. If that report is there, I will again, or possibly my successor, urge the Commission to come forward with a bill to repeal the ban on pulses. In addition, we have also started a Court procedure with the request for the ban to be annulled. I expect a ruling on this in the course of next year. Moreover, I would like to temper the expectations of withdrawing the ban on pulses somewhat. We note from many other Member States that there is not much international support for pulse fishing. However, that does not alter my commitment to this, because I really believe that this is an opportunity for the sustainability of fisheries, which everyone is in favour of, and that in this way you can give the sector a future. Fortunately, we also have other options for this, innovations that take place in other areas. Good initiatives are now being developed in the field. Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Weverling, Mr von Martels and Mr Bishop asked about the results of these innovation programmes. These programmes focus on basic research on the one hand and on small application-oriented innovation projects on the other. From the basic track, four research paths have been launched over the past four years. They aim at improving fishing gear in order to save fuel and move soil. Those studies have a longer duration, so their results are not yet available, but they are being worked hard. The application-oriented innovation projects are mainly about research into an alternative pulse harness. Here comes the water spray that was called. Although this research on the possibilities of applying the water spray has not yet been completed, the initial findings seem hopeful. At present, the European Fisheries Fund provides for a subsidy scheme to finance additional research into this equipment. The new European Fisheries Fund will start next year, and I want to create opportunities for funding such research. Brexit negotiations between the EU and the UK are still ongoing. I said a few words about this in the written reply. I remain committed to guaranteeing the best interests of fishing. There is also a clear mandate to team Barnier. I would like to stress that an agreement is in everyone's interest; access to waters is crucial for our fishing industry. I therefore hope for a positive result. But we also depend on the UK. Mr President, that was the fishing block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr Madlener has another question about this. Short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u125	Why is the Minister not prepared to go to England, as I had already asked for the sixth time, to speak directly with the English minister about fisheries interests? Because Europe is not the right platform. Greece or other countries in Eastern Europe have absolutely nothing to do with English fishing waters, but the Netherlands do. We have great interests there. I hope that the Minister will be prepared to consult her British counterpart before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u126	I have already answered this question in writing. It is of the utmost importance to form a block, precisely as Europe. It is important that we have access to the waters and that if the British do not agree, it will have consequences for their access to the European market. There's really the leverage for the British. They must also feel that it is of the utmost importance to make good agreements. If they don't feel that pressure, they won't be interested in reaching an agreement somewhere else. That is what we are doing with Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u127	Because of the limited time I had briefly mentioned this point and asked if there is a plan B, with in mind Brexit, North Sea agreement. I can't hear the Minister saying there's a plan B. I get that a little bit, because you don't know exactly how things develop. However, it is prepared to discuss with the fisheries sector the socio-economic consequences of all kinds of measures. This time is also pressing with a view to Brexit, with a view to the North Sea Agreement. I know how it all rubs a little bit there sometimes. The SGP attaches great importance to the fact that those directly concerned also remain directly at the table. At what time can they expect a meeting with the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u128	At various levels of our ministry there is about weekly contact. I myself have contacts with the representatives of the fisheries sector, because there is great uncertainty and we want to know how we are going to proceed. I have those contacts. There will soon also be an administrative consultation with the fisheries sector. That's a continuous process. Those talks are also about financial uncertainty. By the way, we also carry them in Europe. We are asking whether there can be support from Europe even if that fishing industry does not, I hope, have access to the waters or if there is no proper agreement on that point. It is also important to look at what is the best method. We have had silent arrangements in the corona crisis, but shutting down after a Brexit can also mean that suddenly you have lost your place and that there are other consequences. Those are exactly the conversations I and my people are having with fisheries on my behalf, so I am very much involved. I think I have another appointment with them very soon. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the bigger block of nature. There's several parts in there. I'll try to get through that with some speed. Lots of parties are worried about the meadow birds. I understand that very well. Mr von Martels, Mr Moorlag and Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the grazing birds and the Grutto attack plan, which was recently presented. I myself have received that plan of attack from the initiator, Mr Winsemius. By the way, many people were present digitally, also from the different meadow bird provinces. I believe that Grutto's attack plan contains good ideas for making additional efforts together to reverse the falling trend of the grutto. I therefore welcome this initiative, especially because it has been designed with several parties and it comes from the bottom up and at the right time. The farmer's income model is rightly given a prominent place in the Grutto Attack Plan. In the speech of Friesland I have already said a few things myself. For example, I referred to the fact that a plan is being developed throughout the whole chain, from farmer to consumer, to reward the farmer, for example through the milk price. This is one of the initiatives being taken in Friesland. I am prepared, together with all the partners involved, the meadow bird provinces, farmers and nature organisations, to further develop the ideas for a earning model and to examine its feasibility and feasibility. I see opportunities to connect with, for example, the peat meadow plans, which also contains money. I see opportunities through the Nature Programme, the greening of the CAP. These are all financing options to shape this. I hope to continue to work on this with the provinces in the coming period. Then nature including building and green cities. Many parties are in the process of doing so. Mrs Bromet and Mr Weverling have asked questions about nature including construction. Let me first say that I shared Mr Weverling's enthusiasm for the hackathon. That was really nice. You'd almost say that a hackathon is digital by definition, but we could only be digital. That was good, and I think that this has resulted in very nice initiatives. It has produced nice partnerships and I understand that it has also been a starting point for smart solutions for greening cities, by continuing to do it in particular. With a lot of stakeholders, we allow everyone to make their contribution to improving the biodiversity of urban areas, the health of residents and the climate. At the end of 2019, a broad coalition from the construction and the green sector called for nature including construction to become a standard. They also made suggestions in the area of mandatory. I've already sent a letter about nature-based building. In that I said that I, together with the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, am conducting a bottlenecks investigation to determine whether a legal standard for nature including construction is desirable and possible. That bottlenecks study was launched at the beginning of October 2020. I expect the investigation to come in February 2021. Then we can see what options are being formulated. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the Forest Strategy. We have just presented it. Previously, there were also own-initiative papers around the forests. In this way we can take steps together with the provinces to ensure more forest. This is part of the Climate Agreement, but it is also a wish that lives widely in the Chamber. Mrs Dik-Faber specifically asked about the social initiatives being developed in this area. They are an important pillar of the Forest Strategy and, as far as I am concerned, they also show how important the Dutch think the forest is. Mrs Dik-Faber mentioned a good example of this: the action Netherlands is planting trees. State forestry, the EO, the National Tree Festival, the Foreign Fund and, of course, the people involved. I think that is a very nice initiative and I will see how we can support it. As a result, Mrs Dik-Faber also asked me if I wanted to see how we could get the possibilities for agroforestry more off the ground. I also mentioned this in the Forest Strategy. I also see agroforestry as a promising development. It contributes to a strong link between agriculture and nature and can bring new income models for farmers. It is still in its infancy; we must recognise that. It's still being applied on a small scale. I hear that all kinds of knowledge developments and practical developments are still possible. Mrs. Dik-Faber mentioned something. I am interested in this and I want to see what we can do, also in the context of the opinions on the scaling-up of agroforestry and food forests in the Netherlands. The Louis Bolk Institute and the Food Forest Foundation Netherlands have issued these at my request. I should like to thank Mrs Bromet very much for the book on rewilding. I haven't read it yet, I have to say. It's gonna be a Christmas vacation job, I predict. I did browse through it and there were very nice pictures from before and after. Then I remembered Mrs Bromet's meadow. Maybe that was her inspiration, a kind of before and after, for what happened in her big backyard, just to put it this way. Perhaps I could come and see how Mrs Bromet's rewilding has taken shape in practice. I'm going to study it with interest. Mrs Bromet also asked a number of questions about the application of rewilding. I also said a few words about this in the written reply. I am very curious about the developments that the professor will see and the examples that come from them, so I am going to look at them with interest. The National Parks. Mr De Groot asked me to take part in the debate on the financial gap between the plans submitted by the national parks and the budget available. Let me just say that I'm glad there's so much interest in the arrangement. The parks can also take steps with that. RVO is also currently reviewing the applications. However, the budget for this was already known in advance by both the national parks and your Chamber. So I don't intend to do anything about that now either. It is very often the case with subsidy schemes that there is a larger tender, but that is not the right reason to add all kinds of additional resources. Another point raised by Mr De Groot relates to the financial gap in the management of the national parks in the Caribbean Netherlands. I'll take that as an issue. Because we ourselves had already found that these national parks in the Caribbean Netherlands are indeed dependent on the number of visitors and thus the income from visitors. Because of corona, they're much less, which makes a hole in their budget. This makes it very vulnerable, because it will make it difficult for them to comply with the management and conservation of these national parks. So we were already looking at it and I have now found a solution to this within the nature budget. I will inform your Chamber about the impact of the budget change, but I can make money available in 2020 to meet the National Parks in the Caribbean Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u129	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I think that not only the coral but also the people in our overseas regions are very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u130	I'm getting to the nature fires. Mr Futselaar has called for very specific attention to be paid to this. He asked if I would be willing, in cooperation with the Minister of JenV, to come up with a national strategy to combat natural fires. I myself was in the Peel when that immense fire indeed took place. Now that is also peatland and with that really a peat fire. Because every time you went anywhere, there was another fire there. It was pretty complicated to keep an eye on all of that. So much respect for the rangers who are watching that very closely. I also noticed how much the fire made on the people who live there, the people involved. The policy on nature fires is primarily a responsibility of the security regions, nature managers and provinces. It is therefore primarily up to them to see what they can do with the results of that research. However, I am prepared to look with these parties and with my colleague from the JenV Ministry to see if we can make a further contribution to consider what actions should be invested where and how we should do so. So the primacy really lies in the area and in the security regions, but I would like to see with JenV's colleague how we can still offer a helping hand there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u131	I appreciate that. In fact, the security regions, the provinces and the nature managers themselves have already found that they do not have a good enough say in this respect. In any case, the report also showed this and it will really be no different in all other areas than in the Peel. This is also about a question like: how do you decorate nature? It's about groundwater levels and so on. These are quite complex things that I suspect a safety region does not always have a clear sense of: gosh, what do we really think of the groundwater level in the peat bog? That is why I wonder whether you should not really look at it with a national perspective. Whether the Minister of JenV is involved, I do not care much, but it must be more than just saying: let the areas be the areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u132	No, that was actually the second part of my answer. It is also a question of: how do you decorate nature and what does that mean? These are exactly the questions that we have now included in the Nature Programme. There we really look with the provinces how you can have robust nature. That also means: how do you prevent nature from becoming susceptible to natural fires? And if that happens, how can you control it very quickly? I agree that this also has to do with how we decorate our nature. That is exactly a part that we discuss and take with the provinces in the Nature Programme. Mr. Chairman. I come to a pressing issue: the red deer. Mr Moorlag asked me to ensure that the red deer in Drenthe is not shot. Fauna management, including the interests of security and, for example, damage to agriculture, is a legal responsibility of the provinces concerned. They decide whether or not to shoot the animals that pose a risk. Now the King's Commissioner in Drenthe, Mrs Klijnsma, is a PvdA Commissioner. Mr Moorlag is undoubtedly aware of this. He could, of course, also inform her of his position. But let me be generous: I will pass on his request to the King's Commissioner in Drenthe, so that she also knows what Mr Moorlag's view is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u133	You have it in the pocket, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u134	I'm always attached to role-purity. I think the college of GS in Drenthe just has a portfolio distribution. If the Minister contacts me, then my request is to do so with the deputy for nature. I think that's Jumelet. Then Mrs Klijnsma will not be in an uncomfortable position either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u135	Well, if this is such a big point, Mr Moorlag should, of course, leave it entirely to the province and not call me to it. 'Cause that's not my call. But I will do it even more purely: I will speak to Mrs Klijnsma more often, because it is always very nice to speak to Mrs Klijnsma and ask her to pass this on to Mr Jumelet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u136	It is true that the Minister is not responsible for this, but she has a great interest in it. This type of incident does, however, affect the basis for nature policy. Some speakers have already said it here: when we talk about nature policy in the Netherlands, you will soon see the excavators rolling. But shooting a deer like that as a nature policy shoots a lot of people in the wrong throat. The petition there was really signed by a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u137	I know, but once again, the responsibility here really lies with the provinces. If the provinces are going to say that things have to be laid down somewhere else, or if the provinces are going to tell me to do something, then your Chamber will say: hohoho, that's not what the province is about; it's really the Chamber and the Cabinet that are going to do that. But again, I'll send Mrs. Klijnsma an app. That's always nice. Mr De Groot asked me if 5 million would be used for the pilots on basic quality, as the PBL also points out in his quickscan of the nature measures. This was indeed based on an amount of 5 million for basic quality of nature and research. With the basic quality nature is also invested in the conditions for general, not yet endangered species. This also results in a positive result for the endangered species. That is why I think it is important to invest in it. The implementation programme of the Nature Programme is in a final phase. The aim is to establish this together with the provinces at the beginning of December. For this my starting point is that within the programme there are annual resources for the basic quality of nature and research. But once I have established that, I will tell you right away what the programme looks like, so that you can take note of it yourself. Mr. Chairman. These were the questions in the block of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u138	I did think: let this block be completed first; then I can come up with a question. The minister brought up the grutto. That was very nice and nice; thank you for that commitment. But it's about several meadow birds. In practice, we often see that farmers want to be given the opportunity to make a change, but that they run into the fact that the resources for agricultural nature and landscape management are inadequate and that contracts can only be concluded for a certain number of years. So they want a longer contract duration and more resources. So the question to the Minister is: is there more budget available in the long term for agricultural nature and landscape management?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u139	I also discussed this question with the authors of the Grutto Attack Plan. Indeed, they also asked for a commitment for a period of more than four to five years, i.e. the period during which the common agricultural policy is to be adopted. The budget for agricultural nature and landscape management comes from the CAP. We do not finance that separately. My commitment is simply to make sufficient funds available for this. We've seen how that's convenient now. That has happened again for the years to come. I can't rule over my grave. I cannot say that the CAP must then be redesigned in this way. I can only see that there is broad support for agricultural nature and landscape management, and I expect that this will still be seen in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u140	I don't really have anything to add to that. I see it more as an effort towards the Ministry to achieve this in any case in the coming years. So I am hopeful about this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u141	Good. Our ministry is very excited about that, so you don't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u142	I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to the social initiatives to plant trees. This will be well addressed in the tree strategy. I think the two of them can be mutually reinforcing. Now the partners of the biodiversity table are also working on an attack plan of landscape elements. Because the Forests strategy is also about that, so about forests, trees and landscape elements, I wondered if that attack plan would also have a place in the Forests strategy. You may also reply in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u143	Then I should know first what the content of the attack plan is. I find it a little complicated to say whether it is included in the Forest Strategy if I do not know the plan yet. Here too, however, the main point is that, of course, we are looking at different ways of promoting the landscape element, including in the CAP. That's what we've established now. We also do this wider, in the Nature Programme and in the Forest Strategy. So if valuable insights emerge from that, we will obviously see whether we can also involve them in ongoing programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u144	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. I had a second question on another subject. Maybe it'll be dealt with in the other block. I'm not sure, but I'm asking the question now, because it also affects nature and biodiversity. Last week was in the news that there are so many places in the country where silence and darkness are under enormous pressure. It was my heart's heart's heart. Well, that's just a confession on my part. I have really tried to anchor silence and darkness in our spatial planning policy and that just didn't work out. When I read that message, I thought: it just didn't go well. Of course, you're not doing it alone and you're all here in the Chamber, but shouldn't we be on top of that much? Of course it's all decentralised, but every province and every municipality thinks: this part of the residential area is possible, this part of the business area is possible. And in the end we just lose silence and darkness. This affects the landscape and biodiversity and ultimately affects people. Does the Minister wish to engage in talks with local authorities and her colleague from BZK to see if we can reverse this trend altogether, but can bring it to a halt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u145	This question was indeed in the other block, but I'm going to get it out right away and answer it now. Mrs Dik-Faber had asked for this and Mr Wassenberg also asked for it. Am I prepared to enter into the conversation about the areas of silence? The designation of quiet areas is a responsibility of the provinces, but there are also other instruments to promote silence, also within the framework of the Environment Act. I am prepared to discuss this with the provinces, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Everyone has a piece of this puzzle in their hands. I cannot say that this will lead to anything right away, but at least we will discuss with each other how we are on the contrary and how we could take this into account in spatial planning. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the block of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u146	And I would point out that you will have a very big debate on this in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u147	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u148	So we can do that very briefly and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yes, that would also be my proposal, but of course I will never go against the Chamber if it asks questions about it; you understand that. There is a great challenge to reduce nitrogen precipitation and thereby strengthen nature. The cabinet has drawn up a whole package of measures for this purpose. You've been informed of that. Mr Bishop of the SGP asked whether management techniques and measurements could also be financed from the grant modules for resource-oriented sustainability and management measures. At the first opening, projects with innovative techniques as well as management measures could be submitted. The measurements are required as part of all projects submitted. The second design of the innovation module also includes a measurement module, whereby measurements can be submitted separately as a project under certain conditions. What conditions are those, we are going to publish in the publication of that regulation. But this is seen both on stable technology, on management and on measurements. Mr Bishop also asked me why there is a professional ban in the new buy-back scheme. I think that Mr Bishop raises a point that we really need to think further, because the cabinet has always said: you can stop if you want, but you can also move your business or take measures to reduce emissions or you can continue your business in another way. For that whole package, we simply need the instruments, so I am going to take a closer look at the question raised by Mr Bishop. I propose that we discuss this in greater detail in the debate on nitrogen, which the President mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u150	Look, I just wanted to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u151	Let's see. Then there was another question about the PAS detectors. Mr Madlener and Mr Bishop drew attention to this. Let me just say that there is no political difference of opinion on whether we should resolve this or not. 'Cause I see this has to happen. We are working hard on that, too. We believe it is very important that the reporters should be able to obtain a licence as soon as possible. There's still a lot of business behind that. For the sake of time and because of the fact that we really need to have a good debate on this with each other, I think we will continue in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u152	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr Futselaar asked me about the nitrogen dossier, he always thinks ahead; I think he does that in his career too, whether I want to transfer nitrogen, water, biodiversity in the package that I am going to give to my successor. Of course, I would like to say, because these are big files that will not only play in this cabinet period, but also in the coming years, I estimate. I am committed to ensuring that whoever comes after me is able to carry on with it. Because that is of the utmost importance to everyone. That was the block of nitrogen, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mr Futselaar briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u155	"Are you going to hand it over?" was actually more of a rhetorical question than a literal question. But I'm glad it is. I also said that my fear was a little bit that a dossier such as the Nitrates Directive or the Water Framework Directive would potentially become a new nitrogen dossier, and you see that crossing standards ultimately leads to legal consequences and far-reaching consequences in society. Maybe the Minister can tell us how she sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u156	We are certainly aware of the need to ensure that we meet the objectives set out in the Water Framework Directive for 2027. We can see that doesn't happen everywhere right now. That is exactly why I am now on a much more intensive path with the colleague of IenW, who is the first to be responsible for this. But I feel just as responsible for that. We need to look at the necessary measures in the waterboards and the provinces involved. So this is definitely something we are aware of. Mr President, I would like to ask a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u157	Yeah, that can be short and pointy, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u158	Mrs Dik-Faber asks me to have the Platform Multifunctional Agriculture carry out in-depth research into the obstacles to the development of multifunctional agriculture. I set up that platform last year. I think it is very important that we go further and faster in this regard. And I'm willing to see how we can help that in-depth investigation further. Mr von Martels asked if I had read his election programme and if I had seen that he wanted to commit himself at EU level to low VAT on fruit and vegetables. Anything that encourages you to eat fruit and vegetables, I support. You can imagine that. I think it's an interesting thought. It is also true that the WTO demands equal treatment for all products. If Mr von Martels is only referring to European products, we will have an issue there. I understand him in such a way that he wants the VAT on fruit and vegetables to be reduced in a generic way. Interesting. Mr Bishop had a specific question on organic outlets for EU legislation. Under the current Regulation, a store can benefit from an exemption if it only sells packaged products and does not sell unpacked products. With effect from 1 January 2022, the new rules will allow more scope for exemption for the sale of unpacked products, provided that the conditions are met. I'll submit those terms to you later. An organic farm that only sells its own products on the road is already certified as a organic company, so it does not need to be certified for sale. This is precisely an opportunity to grant an exemption on unpacked organic products, and that seems to me to be very desirable. I'm definitely gonna take advantage of that exemption. That seems to me to be in the interest of those organic products too. Then I have a question from Mr Geurts on the implementation of the motion on the tax concession of unsold products from vaccinated animals. We've had discussions about that before. I know that Mr Geurts is close to his heart. We are now looking to increase the possibilities of covering those risks, for example on animal diseases, with tax opportunities. I know that Mr Geurts is impatient on this point, but I really have to wait and see the results of this investigation. As soon as I have it, I'll inform the Chamber about the progress. Finally, the last part: Buba.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u159	I'm gonna hit the kettlesticks and let some trumpeters come into the room and then we'll get to the main act tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr. Chairman. The question was if I'm willing to talk to the Freiwald family. We're already talking to that. As you know, there is a ban on wildlife in the circus in the Netherlands. That was true for everyone. Other circuses have also had to comply with this. So I think it is right that this circus should also comply with that. As no suitable reception location was yet available for Buba, an exemption has been granted. We have gone looking for suitable locations for Buba. Experts have also looked at different possibilities. Well, we seem to have found them, too. We're going to see exactly how we're going to shape that, so that Buba gets a nice place where she can just enjoy the years that remain in a more natural environment as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u161	A final interruption by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u162	Then it must go well, because a lot of things have not been answered. I find that really frustrating with that small number of interruptions in budgetary treatment. We used to sit here till 5:30 in the morning. Why does all of this have to be done until 11:00? We're on budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u163	Corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u164	Yes, but this is also about human life and animal life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you for your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u166	No, no, I'm gonna start now. Point one: I'm the last person to speak to Mr. Freiwald on Monday. I've been there for hours, including Buba. I also fed Buba roots, Mr. Wassenberg. I wasn't supposed to, but I just did. What matters is that these people now have new insights and are willing to talk to the minister. I don't care if Mr. Wassenberg of the Party for Animals joins us. We on the right side and the VVD also as a left side side. Then there are two lefts and one right. We have other solutions for Buba and I would like to talk to the Minister about this, because I cannot talk openly here because of animal activists, that scumbag. That's the problem. I'd like to talk to the minister and the Freiwald family. If necessary, there are other MPs, Mr. Futselaar or anyone else, because it's not about me, it's about Buba. But I can't talk publicly because of those horrible animal activists. I really hate it. I would have liked to have a commitment to that, if the Minister still wants to do so, because this is the last Dutch circus elephant. Baby's already gone to Norway and Gaudi no longer exists. I think he's 62 years old. They won't be in nature with all those poachers. But here's the thing: let's get it done with dignity and justice, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u167	That's exactly what we're doing. Mr Graus talks about 'terrorous animal activists'. I hear him talk about it differently sometimes. This isn't new. This has been going on since the last cabinet. It was not our cabinet, but the Rutte I cabinet, even I think, that decided to ban wildlife in the circus. That goes for everyone. We have already granted a number of exemptions, because we wanted to find a good place for Buba. We believe that this has been achieved. We're also gonna try to do that nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr Wassenberg's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u169	I asked a few more questions about the Dolphinarium. They have not yet been answered, nor have they been answered in writing. The Minister writes in her written reply "animal welfare, education and conservation must be in order," but they are therefore not in order. They were also not in order in 2017, 2018 and 2019. In 2017 and 2019 agreements were made between the Minister and the Dolphinarium. The Dolphinarium has failed to comply. Now there seems to have been agreements made again and I think they have still not been complied with, at least not when I visited them the last time, a month and a half ago. It looked exactly like it did three years ago. How much longer will it take? How long will the Minister let the Dolphinarium keep him on a leash? At the moment when agreements have not been fulfilled for three years, nothing happens in the field of animal welfare and the shows remain as they are, the Minister must make a decision and say: I am withdrawing that zoo permit and the Dolphinarium is being converted into, for example, a shelter for marine mammals. You can't just go on like this and let them keep you on an endless leash, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u170	I did that research on the Dolphinarium on my own initiative. So it's not like it got over me. I wanted to know exactly what's going on with these animals and whether it's sufficiently focused on education and less on show. It has come to the conclusion that this was not enough. That is why I had our people speak to the Dolfinarium on my behalf. That said, this must be improved. There's a deadline for that to happen, but it's not like I'm gonna let it go. On the contrary, we have made clear agreements on this matter ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u171	No, you're through your interruptions, Mr. Wassenberg. This was number eight. Madam Secretary, are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u172	This was contribution for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u173	Thank you. This was the first term. I'll suspend for three or four minutes, then the Minister can also take a breath and perhaps wash his hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with the second term. The speed is reasonable and we're going to try to hold on to that. I propose: pointy through the motions, filing, a brief accompanying chat and that's it. The first speaker in the second term is Mr Graus of the PVV. He's gonna show us how fast that can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start reading the motions right away. I'll see how much time I have left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide a pilot bringing the NVWA animal welfare teams to the Ministry of JenV (maintained budget from LNV) due inter alia to the conflicting (economic) interests at the Ministry of LNV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u176	This also has to do with the clashes between the people of the Executive Board of Keuren and the animal welfare teams, because they have very different interests. The people of the animal welfare teams are in trouble and nothing is being done about it. I am deeply saddened by the fact that a very large part of the Chamber is actually dropping those people. I think it's quite outrageous what happened. Listen, take the information, but then they get beaten out and then they're gone. I really think that's a bad move. I'm telling you the truth. Those MPs never have to knock on my door again. I'm very disappointed, very disgusting. Really. I'm really pissed off about it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of a ban on the killing of pets and pets by private individuals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mr Graus made some angry remarks towards Members of Parliament. Maybe it's okay if he expresses what he means, because I'm aware of no evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u178	I can't do that, but things have happened bilaterally. And also with the committee appointed by the clerk of LNV, in which Mr. Wassenberg and I and someone else are in. All of this is suddenly being transferred. I really feel bad about that, really. I hate that shit. I've been here 14 years and I hate all this sneaky, sneaky shit. I told those people, I'm listening to you and I'm protecting you, even if I have to leave the Chamber myself. I protect them, even if I have to give my life for it. I'm protecting these people. But here everyone has listened and heard input for the NVWA. The minister didn't seem to be aware of it. And we're just dropping these people, except for a few. It annoys me immeasurably. How else would we have found out that these abuses were there? How did we find out? Those people don't want to leak to politics at all. They've been there for decades. But they have to, because they're not being heard. No one listens to these people. I've been through it in business, too. But I've always done... or I left myself. I'd rather die than bow. I'm not gonna do it. I always go for justice, always. I also said to them: if the one who got kicked out doesn't come back, you should see what's gonna happen. I'm in such a state. That's not gonna happen. Because then we shouldn't have listened to them. Otherwise, we wouldn't have known. Those people have brought us so many good things and so many scandalous things. Can't we not offer these people a helping and protective hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u179	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr. Chairman, really...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u181	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u182	It's been going on for years. I really thought you should be able to protect some of those people with a minister and a chamber. There's just kaffers in there, assholes. I'm gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u183	Whoa, whoa, whoa, think of your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u184	It's true. There are people who don't want it to end up with the minister or the MPs. That's the problem. It's not the people at the front who signal this. Middle management should have intervened, and that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u185	The Minister is asking for the floor. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u186	And those aren't the people at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u187	However, I do object to the fact that people who work for the NVWA are dismissed with these qualifications. I'm just not gonna let you do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u188	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u189	And that's because I mentioned names...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u190	I think you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u191	No, Mr. Chairman. There's a lot more going on. I have also named names after the government of people who are not good. They all knew that and they leave those people in big... it's just outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u192	I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u193	It's just outrageous. I don't think I'm standing here as a member of the States General right now. What happens to me now has never happened to me in 14 years. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u194	I think your point is well made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u195	I'm not sleeping here tonight. No way. I think it's very sad. They're very good, dear people. I'll tell him. Those who clean up these people now have something to hide. Luckily, I reported it before those people got cleaned up. I told them to throw them out, or they're gonna catch the good guys. It's always like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u196	I think the point has been made in this regard. Is it really necessary to respond to this? Otherwise we can just move on to the next motion. Mrs Lodders, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u197	A few short words. It is a credit to Mr Graus that he stands up for these people and the situations we know with each other. I mean that sincerely. Everyone does it in their own way. However critical I may be about the NVWA, I agree with the Minister's words. Please, let's talk to each other first with the ig and the sg. Then we'll look at the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u198	Thank you. You don't have to respond to that, Mr. Graus, but you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u199	I'd like to. I've had some people in my arms for years. For years. But nothing's gonna happen. Nothing's happening! Those people are gonna be out in a minute. You can't do that! In 2020, in the Netherlands, you can't do that, can you? We have a whistleblower arrangement. We've got everything. These people are coming to MPs, and they're still gonna go for the ax. They'll find out how that all goes and who might be involved. They've been able to trace things and then they'll be punished. I find that so intense, intensely false and mean. People who are intensely false and mean are assholes. I'm gonna say it again, they're assholes. They protect their own place and the good people go out, namely the people who have spotted them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u200	There's the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u201	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. There are assholes everywhere. You have to deal with it, not the good people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u202	The Minister has just made a point about your citation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u203	That hurts me. That's how she drops the good people. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u204	Clear. Shortly, Mr. Geurts. After that, I really want to move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u205	I get it. I am not taking anything away from Mr Graus's words. But he started his intro by addressing MPs to the fact that we wouldn't have done anything. At least that's how it came in to me. As Mrs Lodder just pointed out, I am also truly aware of no evil. I supported Mr Graus on this point at the procedural meeting. There's a committee at work. That was agreed at the procedural meeting. I haven't seen the results yet in the procedural meeting. I will not be told that we Members of Parliament would not have done anything. I am at least aware of no evil, I say to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u206	That's the problem. That's what breaks me up after 14 years. You can't always say everything. That was also the case with the De Wit Committee. The reason I had to get out of there, I couldn't say. I'm gonna have to take all that with me to my grave. That's where I got annoyed, too, I swear. I didn't mention Mr. Geurts. I can only confirm that Mr. Geurts has supported me. A certain committee was set up to hear people. In it everything is copied and turned. I asked for protection from those people. They're not gonna get one. So all the whistleblowers of the Netherlands: don't ever come to the States General again, because you're going for the axe. I'm really sorry to say that. I spoke to Ronald van Raak about the whistleblower arrangement, which Mr Futselaar quoted, here in plenary. He said, "Dion, as an MP, you can always hear anything and anyone; the whistleblower arrangement is not meant to keep you out of it." At some point it was said to me: no, that is a whistleblower's arrangement; you wanted it as a Chamber yourself. But I've been walking with those people under my arm for years. And why are they coming to me? Because they know they can rely on me. That's why they all come to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u207	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u208	That's why. They know I'm fighting for one elephant, for one mouse and for one NVWA man. I don't care. I'm here for everyone who needs me, day and night. And I am one of the few, say the people, who answer his e-mails day and night. Day and night, yourself. Not a policy officer, not a secretary; I do everything myself. I'm visiting everyone who's in the shit myself. Everyone always says I'm one of the few who responds. It always is. That bothers me to death, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u209	Your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u210	This motion was co-signed by my Limburg living room biologist, or Kamerbiologist, Wassenberg. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a life-long ban on the holding and occupation of recurrent animal executioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister to work within Cites to ban the export of (parts of) bred lions by South Africa,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-16]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u211	That motion was also co-signed by my home biologist Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u212	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u213	I still have to thank the Minister. Last year, I asked for better protection for the lion within Cites. That's what the Minister's been trying to do. I thank the Minister for that. But now it happens to bred lions. The party's just gonna go on. That's something like that. It's mopping with the tap open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u214	Your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u215	This is the last motion, but I have an announcement to make about the pilot with those combi teams. I want them to cooperate with the animal police and the police, as well as carry out risk controls. My colleague Wassenberg has already contributed this to the budgetary treatment of Security and Justice, or Justice and Security.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, we are going to table a motion on this together. It may have already been filed. But so does the chairman. Now comes the most important motion, I think, because this is very typical for the Netherlands. The Chamber, heard the debate, calls on the government to take sufficient time, because it is 1 January, President, that delay, it is about Buba, I myself asked for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u216	Is all this in your motion? Otherwise, could you recite your motion first? You can then make further comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u217	All right, I'll read the motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the government to take sufficient time to find, in consultation with the Freiwald family and experts on the subject, a Buba-worthy stay in the Netherlands where she can and can enjoy her last years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u218	What matters is this. I told you yesterday that they train psychiatrists in the Netherlands, who then have to help so many thousands of people, when that is not possible at all, because every human being is unique. The same goes for an elephant like Buba, because that is an elephant like there is no second of it. You have the herd animals in Africa, but Buba is 45 years old. She has 8 to 10 years to live. Buba is in her final stage of life; she's an old lady. You can move Buba and old trees. I have experienced it with a woman, I have unfortunately been involved myself, who at the last moment has been moved from an old people's home to another old people's home. She was gone in a few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u219	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u220	No, Mr. Chairman, hold on. I said to one of the predecessors: some elephants have already been eaten away in the shelter. Then I told Mrs Dijksma not to do so, because you are responsible for the death of that elephant. That was about Buba, too. Then a few respites and respites were granted. In the meantime, the Freiwald family is ready to talk about a solution. The minister hasn't talked to the Freiwald family lately. She hasn't talked to the family at all, according to Mr Freiwald. So I'd like to talk to the Minister to find a good solution. There are. There are people who want to invest money in that. There are also private individuals who want to invest money in it. But I want this animal...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u221	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u222	...I don't want this animal to go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u223	No, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u224	Everyone can say that all those wild animals in the circus must be stopped, but then you don't see all those animals anymore. All these animals have gone to hell. I spoke yesterday about that lynx. He's gone to hell, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u225	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u226	Why do we do that? Why? I spoke to an expert. He said you can't see Buba as an elephant anymore. It is a completely domesticated animal, which has encountered problems a few times in a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u227	Yes. We are going to listen to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u228	Mr. Chairman, this is very typical. In fact, I know that Parliament's democracy does not work very well, because I am sure that more than 80% of the Dutch population want Buba to receive a decent reception here. But that will not be demonstrated by the vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u229	The motion has not yet been put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u230	But I'll say this: how Buba gets away in France, I'd rather take her away myself, and that's what people are responsible for. So a warned person counts for two, maybe three. But, Mr. Madlener, it's your turn. But first, all my enzymes and bacteria must be removed from the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u231	You said it yourself. I was glad to see you, Mr. Graus. A budget for agriculture without you is not complete. I call Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got four motions, which I'll just read. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to designate low-level agricultural areas where only water quality is a measure of manure policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the government to formulate new nature policy without fixation on low nitrogen nature and to focus on nature that suits the Netherlands better,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls again on the Government to table with the fishermen and try to reach acceptable agreements for them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-19]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-20]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr President, last but not least, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with the British Government new arrangements for Dutch fishermen in British waters before Christmas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u234	There's a short question. Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u235	I have a question about the second motion. Do you think oak suits the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u236	I'd think about that as well if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u237	That's right, it's probably a trick question. There's an oak in my backyard and it fits very nicely with me, but... Yeah, I generally like oak trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u239	Would you like to withdraw your motion? Because if we don't do something about nitrogen, all the oaks in the Netherlands will die.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u240	That is very strange, because the oak that looks beautiful in my backyard is in a very nitrogen-rich area. I live just under the smoke of Rotterdam, near intensive farms. I live on a nature reserve that is also said to suffer from a lot of nitrogen. There are many trees growing, which are regularly simply removed. But at least those oaks are doing very well with us. So I'm not sure an oak doesn't like a bit of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u241	Fine. We're going to listen to Mrs. Lodders now. No, we're not going to discuss this motion any further. Thank you, Mr. Madlener. We're gonna get some desiccation. That's nothing personal, because that's what we do to everyone. Mrs Lodders, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u242	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. I did so before, of course, for the written reply. Through the Minister I also thank the officials, because I think it has been quite a job to do it all within the somewhat available time. Mr. Chairman. I asked for a moment of looking back and reflection on the peasant protests. I welcome the Minister's commitment to engage with the people. I think it is very important to ensure that we have that basis in the future and that we can find mutual understanding. So thank you for that. In my contribution, I went into the fact that there is a great international appreciation for food and food production, in relation to stability and peace in the world. Our responsibility to people elsewhere in the world who have less has really been lost in some respects. It's not the first time I've reported that. I am also trying to put that forward in the National Strategic Plan for the CAP, the common agricultural policy. In fact, I do not agree with the Minister that we can wait for the European Commission's impact analysis. I shall come back to this at the next Agriculture and Fisheries Council, so we will discuss this further. The US Department of Agriculture has expressed its concerns. Those were really tough worries. That was not only towards Europe, but they also looked at what it means to America itself. There's a lot of worry there. So it goes beyond just the market position they would like to gain or need. Mr. Chairman. The second important point I have raised is the role of innovation. I welcome the attention that the Minister also paid to this, but I do, of course, have a motion for a resolution. I have already put forward a proposal for a special envoy. I have the next motion now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas different (technological) innovations can contribute to providing important solutions to the different societal challenges we face, such as global food security and further sustainability of food production as a solution to nitrogen problems or manure processing;]] [[Whereas, in addition to reducing the regulatory burden, it is also important, according to the Rathenau Institute, that the Dutch government should focus more on technological innovations;]] [[Considering that promising innovations too often do not come to fruition because they are not well in sight or run counter to obstructive regulation and/or poaching procedures;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a Special Envoy for Innovation who can provide advice requested and unsolicited, identify bottlenecks and obstructive regulation and link the government with the field of work to speed up promising initiatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u243	Mr. Chairman. I will leave it at that for the sake of time. We made a deal with each other. Thanks again to all of us for discussing the 2021 budget in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u244	You are an example to all of us. Mr Weverling of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions from my hand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the greening of the urban environment has many benefits in terms of climate adaptation, well-being, recreation and biodiversity;]] [[Considering that a coherent approach to greening the built environment and resolving bottlenecks in nature including construction is being discussed with public authorities, regional developers and nature organisations;]] [[Whereas there is a need for structural clarity on the progress of this process and any need to change policies or regulations;]] [[calls on the Government, following the arrival of a bottlenecks analysis, to present an annual Green in the City monitor, taking into account the steps taken to address these bottlenecks, the objectives set and the extent to which they have been achieved, to further promote urban greening,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u246	The motion grow meat. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is in talks with farms to identify potential and potential bottlenecks in the development of farmed meat while at the same time investing in follow-up research;]] [[Whereas, in order to ensure the success of farmed meat as an innovation, it is necessary, in addition to the development of the product itself, to carry out research into the necessary infrastructure to build up a production chain of farmed meat;]] [[calls on the Government to explore, in consultation with farms, research institutes and livestock farming, a cooperation project which will examine how local production of farmed meat can be shaped by Dutch farmers in the long term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u247	Then there is a motion on a biotechnology conference. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European directive on biotechnological inventions dates back to 1998 but that developments in biotechnology have not stopped since that time;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of these obsolete regulations, the conditions for the use of key biotechnological instruments, such as CRISPR-Cas, are very obstructive and restrictive and that this prevents innovation;]] [[Whereas biotechnological techniques and processing are indispensable in achieving important European policy objectives with regard to the sustainability of food production;]] [[calls on the Government to organise, in the first quarter of the following year, a European conference with like-minded countries, including Germany, Spain, Denmark, Estonia and Sweden, if necessary digital, with a view to increasing the European support for a review and relaxation of European legislation on biotechnology and processing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u248	One last comment. The Minister recently promised in an AO that she would inform the Chamber about the relationship between organic farming and processing techniques. I therefore hope that this commitment will be kept, and I expect it to be. We are, of course, eagerly looking forward to that. I would like to thank the Minister very much for all his efforts and, of course, all his officials. We're looking forward to 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u249	Yeah, we all do. Thank you. Then Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u250	Mr President, rest assured, I will stick to my speaking time. Mr. Chairman. Actually, it's a shame to waste a good crisis. We had two: one with the minks and one with nitrogen. I myself think that the Minister could have taken advantage of these crises to get more out of the vision she herself wrote in the first year after she took office: Valuable and Connected. That didn't happen. I expressed my disappointment at this in the first term. About the first crisis I mention today, the nitrogen crisis, a very good piece appeared in the newspaper today. This was about a study of the peak loaders, the farms that generate most nitrogen emissions, ammonia emissions, in the Netherlands. The example was that the largest peak loader on the Veluwe had 24,000 turkeys running around in four barns without ammonia filter and that these turkeys caused as much nitrogen emissions as we, all the Dutch together, saved by slowing down on the highways. I have a few questions for the Minister, in anticipation of the nitrogen debate that we are obviously going to have. Does the Minister know who the 100 largest peak chargers in the Netherlands are? Do the provinces know who those peak chargers are? Do the peak chargers themselves know that they are peak chargers? What are we gonna do if these companies don't sign up for voluntary buy-outs? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few more motions. The first motion will be tabled together with Mr von Martels. She's about a nature-friendly building decision. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that precisely in times of the coronavirus, the need for green and nature among humans has increased;]] [[noting that the house sparrow is on the red list, that bats need living space in houses and that biodiversity in cities is falling;]] [[noting that we are on the verge of massive construction and nature including construction helps in the climate forecast because it is climate-adaptive;]] [[Calls on the Minister to examine, together with the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whether nature including construction can be included in the Building Decision, and to inform the Chamber in 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u251	The second motion deals with the knowledge that is still often lacking among, among others, berm managers and other people in the green, while that knowledge is present but still needs to be transferred. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Ministry of LNV, Green Educational Institutions and Business have been working together in the GroenPact since 2016 and that a Green Deal Natural Inclusive Agriculture Green Education has been running since 2019;]] [[Calls on the Government, within the framework of the Green Pact and the Green Deal Natural Inclusive Agriculture Green Education, to engage with agricultural and nature-oriented education and to jointly develop a plan of action to further develop structural knowledge exchange and to inform the Chamber in 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u252	One brief question from Mr Geurts. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u253	Mrs Bromet just asked a number of questions to the Minister about peak chargers. It came in to me like this. I'm just testing... that it would mean that those peak loaders would have to be expropriated. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u254	I haven't used the word expropriation yet. But I read in the article that some provinces do not even dare to say to peak loaders that they are peak loaders, because that might indicate a certain degree of compulsion. I think that's going a long way. Because we have a problem to solve here, namely a debilitating nature that needs to be refurbished. If peak loaders don't even know they're peak loaders and there's a voluntary scheme, how do you get those peak loaders to that scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u255	Clear. Just a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u256	That is not an answer to the question I am asking, but I will try to put it in a different form. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has the impression that it wants to expropriate peak farmers in agriculture. Is she going to go through all the economic activities in the Netherlands that can also be covered by peak loaders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u257	You can talk to GroenLinks about that. We have to weigh our interests, but nature is in a bad way. We must take measures to that end. And it is no secret that GroenLinks wants to halve nitrogen emissions in all sectors by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u258	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u259	The motion I am about to read is about the liability of land managers for falling trees when hikers or cyclists come by. This prevents nature from falling down slowly, which is very important for fungi and other plants and animals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas dead wood plays a crucial role in the conservation of biodiversity and the supply of nutrients to the soil;]] [[Whereas, as a precautionary measure, land managers remove many old wood around paths, sometimes cutting whole trees;]] [[Whereas this is a counterproductive use of resources for nature management;]] [[Whereas the legal liability and the Kelderlijk judgment may contribute to this;]] [[noting that other Member States, such as Germany, have a more flexible policy on this;]] [[calls on the Government to relax the liability policy for land managers of natural areas and to encourage the abandonment of dead wood,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u260	Two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas little research has been carried out on the effects of rewilding, the wilding of nature;]] [[Whereas there are plenty of places in the Netherlands where a form of rewilding can take place, such as floodplains, stream valleys, deltas in the south-west of the Netherlands and the North, the IJsselmeer area and the Veluwe;]] [[noting that new nature comes from the nitrogen nature package;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to apply a form of restitution to 10% of the new nature and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has some 250,000 kilometres of river basins and these rivers form ecological connecting zones to other parks and natural areas in the city and the countryside;]] [[Whereas in many cases ecological management of verges is not yet covered;]] [[Whereas ecological berm management can prevent heat stress in cities and retain water;]] [[noting that they do not have the status of nature and can therefore also be protected to a lesser extent;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which beers can be protected at both national and provincial and/or municipal level as a nature reserve or landscape under the Nature Protection Act, the Land Planning Act and the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-30]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u261	Spacious in time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u262	Yes, very good. Thank you for giving yourself that compliment. We always like to see that. Mrs. Bromet, you're gonna have to file the motions here. Look, they're gonna throw things at the Members' Restaurant right away to warn you. Yes. We are going to listen to Mr Geurts from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u263	Mr. Chairman. Two motions from my side. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in our country there is a struggle for scarce space;]] [[noting that what should pass a legal test does not often pass the practical test;]] [[Whereas the cooperative is at the heart of our polder model;]] [[Whereas ownership and control are inextricably linked;]] [[Whereas farmers, land-based organisations, consumer organisations and local government share and control responsibility;]] [[calls on the government to establish a platform for public and private stakeholders to meet in order to implement politically-defined objectives in practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u264	Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Agricultural Advisory and Education Assistance Module (SABE) develops that advisors to product-selling companies are seen as "non-independent';]] [[whereas a significant group of advisers cannot contribute to the sustainability objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that product-selling companies can qualify as sufficiently independent by offering a (certified) system of benchmarking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u265	Mr. Chairman. I have signed another motion by the SGP Group, which will be submitted by the SGP Group on our behalf in the near future. We also signed a motion by the Christian Union Group. I have nothing but to thank our policy officer for the support and the LNV staff, whom I understand from the chairman that they have had to do night work again in order to provide us with answers. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u266	Here's the thing. Thank you, too. Then we will listen to the other spokesman of the CDA, Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for the clear answer and my appreciation for her great commitment to LNV in recent years. I have four motions. Despite a commitment about the attack plan grutto, I still have a motion to add a timetable to it. That motion on the Grutto Attack Plan reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a great responsibility for the survival of the grutto;]] [[noting that current grazing bird management does not lead to a trend break in the decline of grutto and other pasture birds;]] [[noting that measures for grutto are also beneficial to other pasture birds;]] [[Whereas there is now a Grutto Attack Plan, which includes operations to restore the grutto stand;]] [[Considering that this plan of attack was achieved with a broad input from, inter alia, farmers' organisations, nature organisations, scientists and grutto provinces;]] [[calls on the cabinet to come forward with a response by January on how to implement this Grutto Attack Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr von Martels, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr De Groot, Mr Bishop, Mr Moorlag and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u268	Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the grazing bird population is poor;]] [[noting that the fox is one of the greatest threats to the meadow bird when it comes to predation and that foxes are mainly active during twilight time and at night, making them more difficult to manage during the day;]] [[noting that the martyr also poses an increasing threat to meadow birds;]] [[Whereas the management of the fox and stone mart ensures that the grazing bird population can be better maintained;]] [[calls on the government to place the stone mart on the national exemption list and to extend the national exemption from the fox to the whole day and night,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u269	Then there's the third motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas accurate and accessible nature data serve a public interest;]] [[Whereas there is a need to substantially improve the collection, validation and reporting of nature data;]] [[Whereas all natural data, as collected by, inter alia, public authorities, land managers, volunteers and the legally mandatory counting and discharge data of wildlife management units, should be used in policy monitoring;]] [[noting that the Minister has already indicated that the National Database Flora and Fauna (NDFF) is being made public;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a National Authority Fauna data, to ensure validated counting methods, maintain a database containing all data and to report it to governments and the public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u270	Finally, the fourth motion. I cannot fail to support Mr Graus of the PVV in his Buba approach. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas we have a giant elephant here in the Chamber;]] [[Whereas it does not belong in this place;]] [[Whereas the solution is within reach;]] [[Whereas elephants have a very good memory;]] [[whereas Buba, the last circus elephant, will never forgive our political choices;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that Buba can stay with her circus family, if the family so wishes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the previous words of thanks to the Minister for the reply and for the night-time officials. Mr. Chairman. I came here with four motions, but I only have to submit two, because about the rest, about cocks, chicks and forest fires, I have received nice promises. That is generally an advice. Sometimes you can just ask a question before you make a motion, I'm just saying to some of my colleagues. Having said that, I'm not getting everything I want for the time being. I've got two motions. The first concerns the ducks. I'm getting a reaction to that, but yes, I can only make motions now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that millions of animals are kept in duck farms in the Netherlands every year without access to bathing water;]] [[Whereas ducks are water birds and require bathing water for the exercise of natural behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that access to bathing water for ducks in the poultry industry is legally guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u272	I suspect this will lead to an interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u273	Who could do that? Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u274	Yes, because I would like to ask Mr Futselaar about the risk that the sector will be forced to invest, while the welfare problem is not the only problem with duck farming and politics could not come to the conclusion from now on that the whole duck farming should disappear. Then we get a repeat of the mink discussion. Then there was no ban, then there were welfare investments. Yeah, well, then you can't just say there's gonna be a ban. That is a considerable risk. So I was wondering how Mr Futselaar looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u275	I do see that as a risk. I've considered that, too. But the alternative is that, pending the final ban, you accept that no improvements are being made through legislation at all. I'm very unhappy about that, too. If you see how long it has taken us to realize water in the duck sector, I fear that abolition may be a while away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u276	I don't think so. Soon to ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u277	Your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u278	I agree. I will certainly vote in favour of a motion for a ban. Mr. Chairman. The next motion is about fur. I also said something about a European ban on fur. The Minister replied in writing. She said two things. The first is that unilateral suppression of products is not possible on the basis of WTO rules. That is not correct, because seal fur is banned in Europe. This, perhaps to the surprise of everyone, has passed the WTO test. So there are just possibilities. The second argument is that an import ban is not feasible as long as there is commercial fur farming in Europe. I think she's right about that, but sometimes you can have a forerunner spot in Europe. I would therefore like the Netherlands to argue in favour of this. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch and Danish fur industry is currently being brought to an early conclusion;]] [[Whereas fur is still used in the garment industry and is widely available in Dutch shops;]] [[Whereas animal welfare in the international fur industry is low;]] [[Whereas it is unnecessary and undesirable to breed animals for the sole purpose of making money selling furs as a fashion accessory;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a ban on imports and sales of fur in a European context,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u279	Then I wish you and all of us a pleasant evening, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u280	I'll be fine. Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u281	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Thanks also to her staff and her officials, who worked until late hours, and thanks to my own staff, who is now doing a dance for this in the back of the room. Thanks also to the Minister for the commitment on the Caribbean. That's very nice. I also asked a question about 2030. I asked if the time limit for saving the coral is not too long and if the Minister is prepared to put extra pressure on it, so that we are really going to save the coral. Mr. Chairman. We want a lot in this country. We all want to build a million houses. Every election programme talks about it. But we still have a lot to do. We have to meet the climate targets. We need to get nitrogen targets. We already know that we are not going to meet the targets for the Water Framework Directive. There's still a lot to do. Then the question is whether we have done enough so far. First steps have certainly been taken. That must also be acknowledged to the Minister. But it's vulnerable. Then I'm talking about the zoonoses, too. The Minister says that she is going to set up a working group and reduce the risks as much as possible, but it is essentially a reactive approach. I also asked a question about RIVM yesterday. That works command-controlled, which means that RIVM does not have the space to do research if it sees the need for it itself. The Minister refers to VWS, but it really seems essential to me that an important institute such as RIVM itself should have sufficient resources to carry out curiously necessary research. That is why I am making this appeal once again to this Minister, asking her colleague from VWS to pass it on to him. I agree with GroenLinks' questions about the peak loaders. I hope that, if it is not tonight, we will be able to clarify this for the nitrogen debate. Before I come to my motions, I have one more question about the NVWA. In February, this Chamber adopted a motion with the operative part: asks the government to fully implement the guidelines on whistleblowers at NVWA and to have annual independent and external reports on compliance with these guidelines by NVWA. What is the progress on the implementation of this motion? Then, chairman, I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Wijffels Committee concluded as early as 2001 that intensive livestock farming is not future-proof because of the handling of the animal and the risks to human health and the environment;]] [[Whereas there is a vision for the future in which the current way of food production is considered unsustainable;]] [[Whereas the outbreak of the corona virus makes it even more urgent to consider the relationship between livestock farming and the health of residents and the risks to public health;]] [[Whereas it is important that farmers' families who wish to stop should be helped in a social way and that it is necessary to develop different scenarios;]] [[Whereas many farmers' families need clarity about the future;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a phasing-out scenario for intensive livestock farming for the next formation, including accompanying measures to cushion and mitigate the social consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality is working on the positive list for mammals allowed to be kept in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas keeping exotic animals increases the risk of zoonoses;]] [[concluding that this list does not target amphibians, birds and reptiles while they also present a zoonoses risk;]] [[calls on the government to also establish a positive list for amphibians, birds and reptiles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-40]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u282	Thank you. Mr Moorlag (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to all those who have supported the Minister, because a budget is a huge job. It's kind of like moving a millstone with bare hands, as we say in Groningen. Mr President, first the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a committee headed by Mr. Pieter van Vollenhoven recommends that five areas in the Netherlands of exceptional quality be designated as world-class national parks, for which the Empire takes responsibility in cooperation with the provinces;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the Commission, the sponsors, the provinces and the National Parks on this valuable advice and to consider how the advice can play a role in shaping the National Parks after the transitional period ending in 2022, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u284	Second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibility of establishing a broad agricultural, nature and food agreement with all parties in the food chain and with nature and environmental organisations, with a view to achieving a fairer and more stable income model for agricultural entrepreneurs, a sustainable improvement in the quality of landscape and nature, and a healthier supply of food and food quality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u285	Mr. Chairman. They're very lightly formulated motions. It is, as it were, an invitation to the Minister to take a step towards an approach that we managed to achieve in the context of the Climate Agreement. I appreciate the Minister's efforts, but I do not appreciate the results. They're really below par. See how acceleration of the transition resulting from climate change has been achieved by the implementation of the Climate Agreement and the Climate Act. And look how parties got out of their shooter pits. I do not want to idealize it, because there are also many problems and issues that still have to be solved, but it has become a checkable system. Each year it is viewed by the Council of State and the Planning Office for the Environment. It is passed on and it is checkable and that also leads to adjustments. Mr. Chairman. To my taste, we need such an approach. The polarisation that has arisen between nature and agriculture must end and continue. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments on the NVWA. There is a temporary committee looking at the implementation organisations. The implementation of the NVWA is not good if it is unable to fulfil its social mission in two thirds of the areas. That's not a social assignment, it's a legal assignment. You're only gonna be from NVWA and join a company. As an entrepreneur I would say: you say that I do not have the place in order, but you do not have the place in order. Monitoring and enforcement are really the key to policy. That really needs to be brought to a higher level. I'm worried. The tone of the letter was very inflamed. I sometimes call that semolina, language that fills well, but whose taste is almost undefined. If you look at the reports, the situation appears to be much more serious. I've been considering tabling a motion on that, too, but we still have a conversation to have with the ig. There will also be a general consultation in January. I would like to mention this as a kind of introductory shelling, because the situation at NVWA is really unacceptable. I don't blame the people there, but the system really needs to be put in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u286	Very well, thank you. Then Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions and also all the officials who have worked hard on them, both for today's answers and for the written answers. I am glad that I have received a number of commitments. I'll name three. One. The social initiatives surrounding the planting of trees are linked to the Forest Strategy. I am very pleased with all these social initiatives and the Minister too. So it's nice that they're seen and connected to the Forest Strategy. There is also a commitment on multifunctional agriculture, the platform that has come up for this. There will be in-depth research into how to remove barriers. If farmers want to switch to multifunctional agriculture, there is indeed still a world to be won. The third commitment is about silence and darkness. Someone said on Twitter that I spoke a little with regret in my voice when I was talking about this. It is, because it really matters to me. I think silence and darkness are valuable to man and nature. I am therefore pleased that the Minister wishes to enter into talks with the BZK and with the provinces. I would like to hear the results at some point. Mr. Chairman. In the debate there was also an exchange of views on calf farming. I would like to dwell on this in the second period. I am pleased that we are looking at ways of making the TVL more applicable to the agricultural sector, in particular to free calf farmers. Last Friday I was on a digital work visit with some of them and I heard their cry for help. Mr. Chairman. In the written reply it says a few things about abandoned agricultural buildings. On behalf of my colleague for Justice and Security, I would like to point out that we find the stakes somewhat weak here. It's a lot about "visiting or" and "transmitting," while there's really a bottleneck here. The rural area is in danger of decaying. Agricultural entrepreneurs are easily prey to organized crime. We do not want that, and we really hope that this Minister and her colleagues will be on top of this. Of course, this must also be done together with the provinces, which also have an important role to play in this. Mr. Chairman. I myself have tabled two motions and I have co-signed the motion on the Grutto attack plan by Mr von Martels. This also applies to Mr Bishop's motion on points of sale of organic products. Now, my two own motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the promotion of short chains could lead to greater appreciation for food and a better price for food producers;]] [[Whereas in the Amersfoort/FoodValley/Betuwe/Flevopolder region, a regional food strategy is being developed with the involvement of local authorities, business, science and civil society organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to actively support this regional food hub as a pilot site for the implementation of a chain model and earning capacity, with a strong roadmap towards the development of regional food strategies elsewhere in the country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u288	Mr. Chairman. Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Forest Strategy defines as one of the knowledge gaps "the contribution of agroforestry to the ambitions and objectives of the Forest Strategy and other objectives";]] [[Whereas agroforestry can contribute to climate, biodiversity and soil fertility and a more stable income through product diversification;]] [[calls on the Government, by analogy with Belgium, to consult education and knowledge institutions and nature and agricultural organisations in order to work together to establish a platform to increase knowledge and opportunities for agroforestry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u289	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u290	Thank you. Then Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u291	Thank you, Mr President. "What the caterpillar calls the end, the rest of the world calls a butterfly." I also mentioned this quote by the Chinese philosopher Lao Tse when dealing with this minister's first budget, because no one will deny that it is radical changes for the people in the agricultural sector that we have to implement. But with that fact, we do know that if we don't do it, things will only get further out of hand. On the contrary, we must intervene, and we must dare to make the choices that we all know in this Chamber that they are needed. If people don't know, they should get out of the Committee on Agriculture, because then they're not worth their place. We know what it takes. We know the analysis. We know that the economic model of Dutch intensive livestock farming and Dutch intensive agriculture does not work for farmers. We know that we have lost our soil fertility, that our ecosystems are under pressure, that the animals are suffering seriously and that in order to feed the world in the future and to remain healthy ourselves and to ensure a fair distribution of food in the world and a healthy environment for people in the Netherlands, we will have to switch to a much more plant-based diet. We all know it, and so it's our expensive duty to make those choices. If you do not, then you will knowingly agree with more of the same thing, which we have had to conclude too often that there are only losers and that the farmers themselves are not helped by it either. So that call continues to be made by the Party for the Animals. We emphasise the perspective that is then possible. There will then be space for the restoration of nature in the Netherlands. There will be room for a model of income for agriculture based on farming in cooperation with nature, with regional production instead of that murderous competition on the world market. We're all gonna get better. Okay, the cattle feed guys may not and the Rabobank may not, but they've been taking advantage of this system for far too long. Mr. Chairman. One of the examples of the choices we just have to make is about the ducks. I appreciate that Mr Futselaar has started to do so, because the problems in duck farming are very serious. Ducks are animals that normally swim; that's kind of their own behavior. These animals aren't built to stand on dry land all day. Their bodies literally can't handle that. Then you can choose: do we leave those animals in those stables, without water, or do we stop? Are you investing in a welfare measure for a sector that also has a lot of other problems, such as a very high risk of avian flu in those stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u292	You have one minute before your four motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u293	But I have negotiated a little more speaking time with my colleague Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u294	He's looking a little glazed right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u295	He could deny it and then I have a big problem, but I think we agreed. Thanks for the warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u296	He is getting very excited, I see: yes, Madam leader of the group, no, Madam leader of the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u297	That's how we do it with the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u298	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u299	You're on to me. You're on to me. Where was I? Yeah, the other problems. Look, the misery is not only for the animals, but also for the farmers, if we opt for half a measure, I do not want to sell Mr Futselaar short of what we already know is not enough. Such a sector then invests in a welfare measure and then we get to hear what happened with the minks: now you can no longer bet on a ban! We want to prevent that. We have good arguments and I have written them down in a motion. I'm gonna read it to you now and then I've already had one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2009 the University of Wageningen found that there are several structural and serious welfare problems in duck farming, including the lack of open bathing water, which prevents ducks from exhibiting their own kind of behaviour;]] [[noting that ducks suffer from joint inflammation and bone defects because their physique is not suitable for standing all day, which is aggravated by the focus of breeding on developing a lot of breast meat;]] [[having noted that former Minister of State of LNV Verburg already recognised these problems in 2009 and called on the sector to work for open water in the barn;]] [[noting that the sector has been refusing to do so for 11 years due to high costs and practical problems;]] [[Considering that both the second purple cabinet and the cabinet-Balkenende IV, in which all the current coalition parties took part, set the goal that by 2022 the perspective of the animal and its own behaviour would lead the establishment of stables in livestock farming, which means that if it were to be used on open bathing water, this welfare measure would be far too late;]] [[noting that duck farming poses a major risk for outbreaks of the avian influenza virus;]] [[noting that the meat of ducks bred and killed in the Netherlands is almost exclusively intended for export;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to duck farming in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u300	Mr. Chairman. I asked the Minister a direct question about zoonoses and she answered a little bit about it, so I'm gonna ask him again. Who is responsible for the outbreak of zoonoses in the Dutch livestock sector? She said: Mrs. Ouwehand asked "who's talking about zoonoses?', That's the U.S. Department. I'm asking her who we can hold responsible. I think that the hearings on the premium affair show that it is very good to have clear in advance who is responsible for what exactly. Then the Minister also said that the cabinet is indeed looking at how this can be prevented in a broad sense. Thank you for that, that was also an approved motion from the Party for Animals. She said a working party was set up and I'd like to hear who's in there. Can we get that information to the room? Is Professor Thijs Kuik in, for example, and virologist Ron Fouchier? I'm very curious about that. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a motion about the bird flu epidemic that's going around right now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that any outbreak of avian influenza in a poultry holding involves a hunting ban within a radius of 10 kilometres around the holding in order to prevent the spread of avian influenza;]] [[noting that the avian influenza virus has already been identified in at least seven provinces, including swans, geese and smients;]] [[noting that there is now plenty of hunting on wild boars, among others, but also on geese and smients;]] [[calls on the government to impose a ban on hunting for the whole of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u301	Then a motion on the NVWA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that persistent abuses and numerous investigations show that NVWA oversight of the livestock and meat sector is failing;]] [[noting that animal welfare in the current system of high production and low costs is still subordinate to the interests of the livestock and meat sectors;]] [[Whereas, within the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, there are conflicts of interest which do not enable it to make a sharp distinction between meeting the economic interests of the livestock and meat sector and enforcing and ensuring food safety and animal welfare;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan of action to remove NVWA and its legal tasks from the Ministry of LNV and to move to another Ministry, such as that of VWS or Justice and Security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u302	Mr President, I will conclude. The Minister has certainly tried to get out of the impasse in which agricultural policy has been for a long time, but in the end history will not be very interested in a minister who has managed to reach agreement on the coalition. When it comes to agriculture, it is a question of which minister has managed to move towards sustainable agriculture in the Netherlands and to say goodbye to the system in which no one wins, not animals, not farmers, not nature and not people. I would like to challenge the Minister in the last budget she has to defend here to make that choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u303	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Wassenberg. Mr Wassenberg has five seconds to speak, but I shall stretch it slightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can reassure you. The distribution of speaking time has gone in supreme harmony, as in fact everything within the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u305	Yeah, it's always called that in the press releases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u306	Mr. Chairman. I've got four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for at least 15 years there has been a search for a method of including the risks of cumulation of one pesticide and of cocktails of different substances in the pesticide authorisation assessment;]] [[noting that this is very complex, but that the risks of cumulation with an additional safety factor on individual substances can nevertheless be somewhat covered;]] [[calls on the Government to strongly support the introduction of an additional safety factor in the European authorisation of pesticides,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber called on the Government to commit itself in Europe to the entry into force of the full original guideline for the protection of honeybees, bumblebees and wild bees;]] [[noting that the original bee guideline establishes a maximum acceptable mortality rate of (wild) bee and bumblebee populations of 7% due to pesticides;]] [[noting that a review of the bee guideline is currently being discussed in Brussels, including the inclusion of this maximum acceptable mortality, to the extent to which the original value may be twice or tripled;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to a maximum acceptable mortality rate of (wild) bee and bumblebee populations, as laid down in the original bee guideline,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Graus, Mr Futselaar, Mr Bromet and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u307	This motion was also tabled by colleagues Graus, Futselaar, Bromet and Moorlag. With that, the motion is sufficiently supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u308	Yeah, I'm supposed to say that, but that's what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u309	Saves time, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that collisions with wild animals can decrease by as much as 95% through preventive measures, such as a wild warning system;]] [[Whereas animals are panicked when hunted, allowing them to cross unexpectedly and thus pose a danger to traffic;]] [[calls on the government to call on provinces to implement alternative measures to combat wildlife accidents, such as the wild warning system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u310	The final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) claims that the eel is dying;]] [[noting that ICES states that eel mortality by human activities (including fisheries and barriers, such as hydroelectric power stations and ground) should be "as close to zero as possible' in order to restore eels;]] [[calls on the Government to advocate a temporary stop on glass eel capture in Europe until the eel population is proven and robustly restored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u311	I have a full minute left, Mr. Chairman. That was because I said for a moment that the motion was sufficiently supported, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u312	Unbelievable. I'm gonna tell you to come here more often. We have one more speaker to go. That is just someone, but that is Mr Roelof Bishop of the politically Reformed Party. He's the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Will the Minister be able to comment on the motions immediately after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u313	If you're the last speaker, you're not just a speaker. That's true. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister and also to her staff, who is largely invisible to the enormous effort that has been made again. Thanks also to the people who have served to make this meeting possible. Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas investments in emission reduction measures on the farm produce relatively much more nitrogen gains than reorganisation schemes;]] [[calls on the government to invest more in emission reduction on the farmyard, not only through stable measures, but also through management measures, and to use part of the budget reserved for the purchase of businesses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that retail outlets of unpacked organic products will soon have to be certified;]] [[Whereas for points of sale with a limited turnover of bioproducts certification is relatively expensive and will reduce the number of points of sale;]] [[Whereas the relevant European Regulation allows for an exemption for retail outlets with limited turnover of bioproducts;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with relevant industry parties in the short term in order to find solutions for these sales points with a limited turnover of bioproducts, including an exemption, thereby removing this threshold,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-53]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Geurts, Mr Futselaar, Mr Bromet, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Wassenberg and Mr De Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u314	I'd like to give you that word. The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to include in the forthcoming amendment of the Fertilisers Act the proposal for more customisation in the imposition of administrative fines under the Fertilisers Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIV-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u315	Mr President, thank you very much. I realise that this second motion in particular supports the policy outlined by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u316	You're constructive. I note that we have 42 motions and also two amendments. I'm suspending until 11:15. Then we're gonna listen to what the Minister thinks of all that. Good luck. Your time begins now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u317	We're gonna start again. The Minister has the floor. I hope she gets through it quickly; then we'll be out in ten minutes. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u318	Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions from Members that I still have to answer. Mr Weverling asked for an explanation of the French registration system as an alternative to the white list. We discussed this in the animal welfare debate. I contacted; they wanted to start a pilot to verify the identity of the seller and the animal. They will share their experiences with us. That is the latest state of affairs. Mrs Bromet asks if I know who the peak chargers are, whether the province knows that and whether the people themselves know that. The Empire and the provinces can check for themselves, also in AERIUS, who the peak loaders are. You can just calculate that, as the researchers themselves did. I do not know if the peak chargers themselves are familiar with this, but AERIUS is also open to them, so they can look at it themselves. I'm not going to anticipate the relationship it has with the arrangement. I would really like to include that in the debate on nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u319	The Minister says you can see it. But the question was actually: has it been looked at and is it also known?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u320	Several provinces have looked at this themselves. It is also them who issue the licences. So it's not like I do that by county. The provinces can just get to that, so they can just know who they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u321	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u322	So the minister didn't do it, and from the provinces we don't know if they did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u323	If I have to do that, we can do it right away. I know a number of provinces have done that anyway. Words that provinces couldn't know that aren't true. They can simply find that data in AERIUS, as the researchers have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u324	No, no, the minister is continuing her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u325	Then the question of the SP about the outcome of the talks with the duck sector. There's been a meeting this summer. It is true that the steps already announced for water supply have not yet been taken. This also has to do with the additional costs involved. We have just had that discussion. I'll talk to the sector later. I think we will be able to say more about this in February. Mr De Groot asked whether the coral plan could still be brought forward. With the Caribbean I agreed that I would send the Caribbean Netherlands Natural and Environmental Policy Plan to your Chamber. We have also made every effort to arrange the money for this. We're gonna do it now. In 2025, we will see where we stand and whether that has been sufficiently effective. As Mr De Groot may know, the main problem is still waste water treatment. That is a subject in which the Secretary of State of IenW has a responsibility, so that could perhaps be raised there as well. At least we're doing our best. Furthermore, the state of play of the De Groot motion concerning the implementation of the guidelines for the protection of whistleblowers was requested. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the process of adapting the House of Whistleblowers Act to the new EU Directive. The NVWA will be part of the route and will be designated by AMvB. This is running. The NVWA also looks at how she can make this work well in her own organisation. Mr Wassenberg asked how much longer I am going to let the Dolphinarium keep me on a leash. I've reported that before. The first agreements about the dolphin performances were made and also implemented by the zoo. We keep our finger on the wrist, because we have agreements and they have to be kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u326	I also supported Mrs Bromet's questions on nitrogen, calling for a response to this for the nitrogen debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u327	I think I've given that reaction now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u328	I thought Mrs Bromet's questions were very precise and I did not think the answers were precise enough, so I repeat the question whether the Minister could look at them, because it seems to be a very relevant article for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u329	I have indicated that the peak chargers in AERIUS can be brought up. This applies not only to the peak farmers in agriculture. I say to other speakers here that this applies to all peak loaders. Where that is relevant, that will also be included, including if you want to determine what to do in a targeted buy-out. We have now opened up this scheme. These are things that are also involved, but I really suggest that we have this debate in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u330	I have a very short question. In fact, I asked how much longer the Minister will allow himself to be kept on the line. Actually, I meant this. The Dolphinarium has failed to honour its commitments time and time again. When's the next deadline? What is the date on which the Minister says: if the agreements have not been met, will the lock go on and the zoo permit will be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u331	We've made arrangements about the dolphin show. They've been implemented, too. The other performances and animal quarters are agreed in the short term. These agreements will also be part of the Dolphinarium zoo permit, so that supervision and enforcement can also be carried out easily. Therefore, when it is found that this is not being complied with, it is crucial for the continuation or non-compliance of that authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u332	Is that next spring? When's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u333	I do not have a specific date now, but at the moment when I have made those appointments, I will inform your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u334	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u335	Then the dog business. Mr Wassenberg also asked about the order for the dog trade. I informed your Chamber in the pet animal welfare letter of 24 September 2020. It says exactly that the Member, the police and the NVWA are working together. Who's in the expert group? I had just put that a little too quickly. That working group is now being established, so it is not yet final. But before the end of the year, I will inform you with VWS' colleague about the approach and composition of the expert group. So you can take note of that. Mr President, I shall now turn to the motions for resolutions. I'm gonna go through that real quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u336	Staccato. Very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u337	My question was: who can we hold responsible if a zoonoses breaks out in the Dutch livestock sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u338	I thought I made that clear. Formally, the person concerned is the zoonosis structure, and thus the zoonosis, the minister of VWS. However, you can also appeal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u339	Fine. I'd like you to go through the 42 motions, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u340	The motion in part No. Fourteen I advise. The motion in part No. 15 is superfluous, because it is not allowed in pet animals and in farm animals it is very heavily framed. That motion is therefore superfluous and therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u341	Very briefly, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u342	I'm sorry, but I've really consulted with animal police experts. It's absolutely not true. You can and may simply kill certain animals, such as birds and fish. That's what happens all the time. People even flush those animals down the toilet and I know what they're doing to those animals. They're not protected at all. The animal police can't even perform here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u343	I'm still betraying her. The motion in part No. 16 on a life-long restraining and professional ban, I advise against. We're already working on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u344	Mr. Graus, briefly on the motion in part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u345	The motion in part No. 15 is not recommended, but this is done on the basis of something that is not true. It doesn't make any sense what the Minister says. The Chamber then gets a wrong vote, because you can just kill a lot of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u346	That's clear. Then, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u347	I have a very short addition. The Animal Law states that you cannot kill dogs, cats and geese because of the very rich Limburg..................................................................................................................................................... It's called "culling": a guinea pig has the wrong color, brick on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u348	I'm still deceiving the motion in part No. 15. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 17. I've been working on it before. Mr Graus also referred to this. That is also happening through Europe. This motion is therefore superfluous and I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 18. We have not been able to find a place in the Netherlands where the elephant can stay well, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u349	Mr Graus (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u350	I'll get both at once, and you'll be rid of me for the rest of the night. So this isn't true. The bred lion is completely out of it. I've been advised about it by someone very much involved and also by a foundation. They brought that to me themselves. So it's really not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u351	But I have already indicated that I am already committed to this and that the motion is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u352	I'm happy about that. That's what I didn't understand. I would like to thank the Minister on behalf of the Netherlands, if she continues to do so. And you can. Very good. I'm grateful to the Minister for that. Then the final motion, the one on Buba. That's the last one, Mr. Chairman, then you won't hear me this evening. But Buba's gonna run away in France. I can predict that already. I also predicted it to the predecessors, which is why he was allowed to stay longer. So after 45 years, we're just gonna take Buba to a country where they still have to invent the word "animal welfare." Buba's gonna run out of there. That's gonna happen; he's gonna die, he's gonna rot like all the other elephants that went into the shelter. We're never gonna hear about that again, but I'm gonna keep an eye on it. Really, I think that's guilt-related death now that we know what happened to those other elephants. I think it's unlikely. I'm just asking for more time to find other solutions for Buba within the Netherlands. There are even investors who want to get on with it. Why doesn't the Minister do that? That's just stubbornness, isn't it? It's the flexibility of a sea container to just say, no, I'm gonna do it, right? If everyone wants to think along, if there are so many people sympathetic to that animal, why do you push it through?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u353	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u354	I'm really upset about this. I've been here 14 years, and you're not gonna get anything done. Nothing more! That has to do with the resentment, I think, after everything I've brought to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u355	Well... remember your words, remember your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u356	But now it's an elephant. It's not about us, it's about that elephant. We're not going to take an elderly 45-year-old elephant to a country where they don't even know the word "animal welfare"...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u357	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u358	...and where they don't have so much expertise in the matter? That little animal's gonna go to hell over there. We can't allow that, can we, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u359	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u360	I'm asking for more time. I hope the Minister will think about that in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u361	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u362	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 19. Water quality is a measure of manure policy, which is unnecessary and therefore not recommended. The motion in part No. 20: dissuade. The motion in part No. 21. I regularly sit down with the fishermen, so I advise against this motion. She's redundant. We talked about the British government. Dissuade the motion in part No. 22. Then the motion to part No. 23. I told you, I think the Envoy is a good idea. I also support what is stated in this motion. Judge Room, then. The motion in part No. 24. Indeed, we must first get a problem-solving analysis. But then we can look at it. Judge Room, then. The motion in part No. 25 I can also give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 26 I do not recommend it because it is a very sensitive issue in Europe. At the moment when we're going to push that with landing, it can just go the other way again. In that light, just to take steps, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 27. The investigation's okay, so I can give that judge room. The motion in part No. 28. Yes, we've already shaped it. But if further details can be given on how we would like to do it, I can let the Chamber know. So judge Room. The motion in part No. Twenty-nine, I'm not sure. I have already come back to it in the written reply. The motion in part No. 30, I'm telling you, too. The motion in part No. 31, I also advise against it. Not because we don't care about the roadsides, but this is really something of the provinces. So I'm gonna dissuade her. The motion in part No. 32 I can give judgment room. On the motion in part No. 33 I've already made myself clear. I am not in favour of companies selling products being able to obtain subsidies for the people who sell them, for example, in plant protection or that sort of thing. That is also really risky for state aid, because then I would finance companies through a subsidy that aims to sell products. So I advise against this motion. On the motion in part No. 34 we've already had it extensively. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 35. I have already mentioned this in the written reply. I'd advise against it. The motion in part No. Thirty-six, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 37. We have already discussed this in detail. I don't recommend that motion. The motion in part No. 38. I have just said on Mr Futselaar's questions that I will discuss with the sector. I'd like to ask if this motion can be held until I've had that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u363	I call Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u364	Madam President, I shall keep her on, but I shall have to put her to the vote before the elections. The last day of the meeting will be in February, so that's gonna be tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u365	At the request of Mr Futselaar, I propose his motion (35570-XIV, No. 38). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u366	The motion in part No. 39. That would de facto mean that we should be advocating a mink ban across Europe. Otherwise, you're gonna keep fur in Europe. I said earlier that I would also argue in the European Council to look at the risks of zoonoses in mink. That's what I did. I have argued that the European Commission should regard this as an emerging disease. The Commission has not done so, despite the requests made by several parties. This means that there will be no broad mink ban and therefore fur in Europe. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u367	Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u368	The Minister may have overlooked it, because it has been a while, but there is an approved motion from the Chamber from when the Dutch mink breeding ban was adopted. It also calls for a ban on mink breeding in Europe. It's so fair that, if you don't allow it in your own country, you're also...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u369	Yes. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u370	The verdict is there. So I do not understand why she says: then I should also be advocating a European mink breeding ban. That's what the Chamber asked the Ministry of LNV to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u371	Sure. I also indicated at the European Council that, in view of the zoonoses, at least I believe that the European Commission should get on that road to ensure that it is regarded as an emerging disease. The European Commission is therefore going to play a role in this. The European Commission does not want that. Several countries have insisted on this. That is the state of play. In that light, I must discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 40. We have already discussed this in detail. I don't recommend that motion. The motion in part No. 41 I also advise against. We're still working on the positive list for mammals. Let's take a look at it here first. The motion in part No. 42. I am going to have all this conversation with the Commission and others who are there. That's already scheduled, so that motion is unnecessary. That's how I'm gonna dissuade her. The motion in part No. 43. That's what I've been shining all my light on. I'd advise against it. The motion in part No. 44 I can give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 45 I'm also judging Room. The motion in part No. Forty-six I advise. I have already said a few words about this to Mr Futselaar. The motion in part No. 47, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 48 I'd advise against... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The motion in part No. 49. We are already in favour of this additional safety factor. That's why she's redundant and I'm not telling her. The motion in part No. 50. The plan has yet to come, so I would really like to ask you to keep it, because I still do not know what the Commission's plan will be. So I would ask that this motion be retained so that we know what will come out of the Commission. If she doesn't, I'm gonna tip her off. I would advise against the motion on alternative measures. I also advise against the motion on the temporary stop on the glass eel capture. That's the motion in part No. 52. The motion in part No. 53 anticipates the debate on nitrogen which we hope we can have in two weeks' time. So I would ask you to hold this motion so that it can be dealt with there. I do not know whether Mr Bishop is prepared to do so, or whether he wants it to be dealt with now. I think it really requires a debate to discuss it well with each other, so I hope he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u372	I have no objection to holding the motion until two weeks from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u373	At the request of Mr Bishop, I propose his motion (35570-XIV, No. 53). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u374	The motion in part No. 54 I can give judgment Chamber. At the motion in part No. I ask Mr Bishop if he is prepared to amend it, because he is now asking for the forthcoming amendment of the Fertilisers Act to be included in the imposition of administrative penalties under the Fertilisers Act. There will soon be an amendment to the Fertilisers Act. If I had to do that, I couldn't do that, and we really need to look at that a little bit more. If he asks for this issue to be included in the review of manure policy, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. But I would like to ask Mr Bishop to amend it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u375	What period would I have to think of?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u376	The reform of manure policy is, of course, a bigger issue, so it is also a bit up to it. That will continue next year, so in the course of next year. But this really is such an integral part of the review of manure policy, at least it's part of that that I would like to involve him in. It is simply not possible to adjust the administrative penalties in the event of a change in manure policy. Then I'll have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u377	But that's going to happen before the election? I mean, significant steps are being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u378	The reform of manure policy is still under way, even after we have had the debate here. That review is ongoing. It will hopefully eventually lead to legislation, regulation, which proves that. I would like to include it in that review, and that is now going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u379	Before the election?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u380	I don't know. It's not finished before the election. That is legislation that lies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u381	I would be grateful if we could discuss this issue as part of that revision procedure before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u382	If you would like to discuss the review of manure policy with me, we could also include this point. I can now say that I am taking into account the administrative fines in the review of manure policy. How does that work out, then your Chamber will find something of its own accord, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u383	Fine. Then we shall have a look at the drafting of the operative part and then the motion will come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u384	Then we look forward to a changed motion. You're a tough negotiator, Mr. Bishop, that's how I determine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u385	Let me ask you a question about the non-advised motion in part No. 26 on the biotechnology conference. I could possibly arrest him, but which one... That is, of course, a wrong negotiation, because I must of course ask first...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u386	Stupid, stupid, stupid, just start over. We'll cut it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u387	I'm going to teach Mr. Bishop. What is an acceptable wording for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u388	I'd just say here... What's an acceptable description? "To increase with like-minded countries with the aim of increasing European support for a review." If we are going to organize a conference with each other and say what we think the Commission should all do, I fear that it will be able to go the other way. So if you say "call on the government to raise with like-minded countries in order to increase the European support for a review or relaxation of European regulations on biotechnology and processing," it might be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u389	Okay. Maybe I'll change the motion that way, or I'll arrest him. I think I can report that, too. I'm gonna think about that for a second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u390	You'll keep us informed. Mrs Ouwehand, brief, pointy, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u391	I have a brief question on the two motions on duck farming. The Minister asks Mr Futselaar to hold on to his motion for bathing water, and my motion for an end to duck farming she advises. But if those conversations are still going on, I'll ask myself the following. Cabinet after cabinet said that animals can show their own species by 2022 at the latest. If she has a conversation in February, is it feasible at all that within ten months all ducks in the Netherlands have bathing water in duck farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u392	I'm just gonna talk to the duck farm first. Then I will inform your Chamber of what the outcome is. Mr. Chairman. I have two further amendments. The amendment in part No. 12 of Mr Futselaar wants to reserve additional capacity for the NVWA. I share Mr Futselaar's view that the NVWA is under pressure. That's what we've been through here. It is not yet clear in which cases financial resources are the solution. There is also a real shortage of labour in this area. I just want to make one more effort to see how we can organise this more structurally. I therefore advise against this amendment. Then there is Mrs Bromet's amendment to item No. 13 on the training fund. According to what I understand, funding for training is not the biggest obstacle to ecological berm management. There are already programmes, such as Customised Knowledge, which make it possible to facilitate better education. I am prepared to discuss this with relevant parties, but there is no need for money now, so I would advise against this amendment. Mr. Chairman. Those were the last things about this budget, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u393	Pooh-puh, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u394	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u395	Yes, it's your last budget, at least in this...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u396	I just wanted to say one last word...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u397	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u398	... but I see Mr Graus coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u399	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u400	Yeah, about the motion. The minister says she's already trying to ban those parts of bred lions. She had already promised that about the lions, but now also for the bred lions. Then I'd like to hold that motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u401	What number is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u402	That's the motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u403	The motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u404	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u405	Of course, she could have taken over or said: support for policy. That's what ministers used to do. Then they said, "support policy."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u406	You can't do that anymore, can you? That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u407	That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u408	No, exactly, but you can take over, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u409	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u410	Finally. There's no response to what I said about Buba, but I think it's harsh what's happening to Buba.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u411	No, we're not gonna make that point again, Mr. Graus. Sorry. We're all leaving later. Then I'll just leave the light on and then I'll just give you all night. No, I'm sorry. At the end, I'd like to give the Minister the floor. If you'll all be quiet for a moment, we'll listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u412	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for that last word. I do not know what it will look like next year, but it is probably not for many of us, but for some of us it is also the last budget of LNV. They have been special but also turbulent years, not least because your committee has always stirred itself and always bent on asking me all kinds of questions, ideas and views. I'm sure you'll continue to do so until the very last day we're here. That's a good thing. That's your job. It has always been a pleasure for me to have the debate here. I hope to do so for a number of weeks. A little bit thoughtful of what I started the introduction, I would also like to give you something of a reflection before we go into the night. I was reminded of a quote in Laudato Si', the encyclical of Pope Francis. I'm not a Catholic myself, but that encyclical is worth reading. In that I found the following statement. "The sun and the moon, the cedar and the flower, the eagle and the sparrow: the spectacle of infinite diversity and inequality means that no creature has enough of itself. They exist only in interdependence in order to complement each other for each other's benefit." I think that goes for us, too. We have diversity, sometimes infinite diversity, but in the end we are also here to complement each other and serve each other, to each other here, to society and to creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u413	Ite missa est. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-25-tweedekamer-9.u414	Soon we will be voting on all the motions, the law and the amendments. Thank you for joining us, Madam Secretary, yesterday and today. I will close the meeting on 25 November 2020.
