ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u1	The next item is the amendment of the National Security Research Council Act to take account of some adjustments, with Mr Van Dam of the CDA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We're rolling from one thing to another here. We can be very pleased with the existence of the Security Research Council. In recent years there have been interesting situations, which have been extremely problematic in terms of physical danger and sometimes in administrative danger. In these cases, as a kind of surgeon, the Safety Research Council has sometimes put its finger on the sore spot, but also very precisely. Now a surgeon doesn't put his finger on a sore spot; he does more. But I just want to say that I think it is really good that we have the Research Council. I think it is very good that he has powers, can intervene and do things. What we are seeing more and more is that the Research Council is being asked in all kinds of places. I refer, for example, to Scheveningen's fire, or other places in the country where there may not be one's own legal authority, but where the Research Council is asked to do things. The Board will produce good, solid reports that contribute to the prevention of this type of occurrence in the future. Because that is the main task: to learn and to avoid another disaster from learning. We believe that this strength and value of the Research Council should be maintained. In the Minister's original bill, the research limitation of the Research Council was lifted. To put it bluntly, the Research Council was also empowered to deal with public order and security incidents. In the run-up to this legislative proposal, a lot of attention has been paid to this and a lot of energy has gone into it. First it said: the Council of State has advised negatively. The Minister took that out. We have also made that question very explicit and we, as CDA, can also call on our mayors to think with us about it. In the end, we understand the Minister's choice and we do not need to change it. But that choice does lead to the question of how we should now regard this Security Research Council as an institution. That is my first question to the Minister. What is the place the Minister sees for the Security Research Council? Is the OVV, so to speak, a kind of High College of State like the General Court of Auditors, or the Supreme Court or the Council of State or that kind of agency? Or is it more of an executive investigation service like the police or the IRS? I think it would be good if this law were to be dealt with specifically once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u3	I am also in my stomach with that removal or not removing the disturbance of public order. I think it is clear that the OVV is not about investigating enforcement, but if there are incidents that lead to disruption, sometimes enforcers play a role in this. The question is: can the OVV investigate this or not? For example, on such a New Year's Eve or those bonfires, the police and the fire department are present. Can the role of those enforcers be taken or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u4	I do not know whether the point of reference for the Safety Research Council is whether there are certain professions or certain people with powers. I read the law in such a way that it concerns specific themes, flight safety, for example, or safety on the railways, but explicitly not public order and safety. In the end, the context was quite decisive for us. We are also here very often at the microphone, this week, because windows have been thrown in in the town hall of Urk for example. Then, as a system thinker, I am genuinely saying: sorry, you are at the wrong forum to raise that issue. You must be with the city council in Urk; that is where the discussion must take place. I think you're gonna give these kinds of organizations strength if you let them work in a very clear perspective. Then I prefer to see the OVV as a surgeon rather than a surgeon. It's a bit difficult to compare as a general practitioner or a nurse who is everywhere. I think you're using that tool if there really is a deeper security issue, and not just the question of whether the mayor has done his thing in this very specific single case in conjunction with the police, the prosecutor and so on. That is the choice we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u5	I think there are a lot of things being said now, because deeper problems: there are also some minor disasters being investigated. I saw on the website "We've both been looking at it" something about a light plane that went over the head somewhere near an inner lake. So they're not all huge deeper issues, but the point for me is this. It happens increasingly that local authority sometimes asks the OVV to do research. It is not so much about maintaining and whether there are structural problems with this. This is an incident that has been taking place and which also raised issues of public order. I now find it not sufficiently clear in the law whether or not it is covered by the mandate of the OVV. Do you think so, I ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u6	I would like to say, through the President, that I think it is quite clear. I read it in such a way that an example such as that plane is a specific task of the OVV. Whether it's in the Rijkswet itself or in the Aviation Act: the OVV has specific tasks in such fields and also in transport flows that have to do with the history of the organization.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If they are asked in a municipal context, "Haaksbergen', "Scheveningen', I know a lot about it, but then it remains that there is a report to that mayor, to that council and it can have its context there. I think that's important. Now I can't quite follow and understand what you're specifically asking about "the enforcers." Perhaps you could clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u7	Okay. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u8	Well, how has it been acted is of course also relevant for assessing an incident. It is, of course, about licensing policy, but also about the way in which the enforcers have acted. Was that escalating or de-escalating? That is, of course, also relevant for assessing an incident.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u9	Yes, but it seems to me that if the OVV simply conducts its own investigation into a case... Mind you, we are now very theoretically cutting a pair of scissors here, but that all comes together. In the situation where the OVV is competent, I think it is perfectly logical that the Council should also include actual enforcement, for example the enforcement of aviation rules. It seems logical to me that the council should take that into account in assessing how the disaster could have occurred. But it seems to me that the council should not do so in a case relating to municipal public order, also because the OVV is therefore not competent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u10	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u11	My question to the Minister is therefore whether he can again indicate what kind of body he sees the OVV. Mr. Chairman. I have a few specific questions and comments to make. Everyone knows that we have prepared two amendments. One concerns the extension period. Before I go into that whole amendment, I would like to ask the Minister again what he thinks about this. Should it be four or six years? What are the considerations? We have made a certain proposal in this respect. The same applies to the standardisation of response periods. It also seems logical to us that these deadlines are the same, whether it is an administrative body or not. For example, the OVV can give a clear answer in one go. Furthermore, this is a law which, as far as we are concerned, does not require much explanation. I can only stress once again that the CDA is incredibly happy and that the Chamber is also incredibly happy with the existence of the Security Research Council. I think once Mr. Pieter van Vollenhoven was at the basis of the existence of the Research Council. In the meantime, we have a new chairman. He's in the public gallery right now. I am also delighted that he is interested in us dealing with this law here. And I hope that not only his predecessor and predecessor, but also himself, will convey the compliments for his organisation and for all the work that is being done there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u12	Thank you. I call Mrs Den Boer from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u13	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has had a Security Research Council for about 15 years now. This Board conducts independent investigations into security incidents, disasters and crises, requested and unsolicited. It is said that people abroad are even jealous of our council, and rightly so. After all, security listens closely in a country like the Netherlands, with densely populated areas, high-quality industry and a complex infrastructure. D66 attaches great importance to the survival of the Research Council and would like to prepare it for the future. D66 therefore has a few questions and proposals. First of all, D66 likes to see a modern council that goes with time. That is why my group attaches great importance to transparent appointments and a high guarantee of equivalence. Does the Minister agree with D66 that it is time for a new appointment procedure? D66 would like to see a bigger role for the House of Representatives. How does the Minister see this? Secondly, D66 is always committed to the maximum independence of investigation bodies and inspections. And that is also necessary, especially given the conditions at the WODC and the JenV Inspection. Does the Minister consider that, in view of this case, the independence of the OVV is adequately guaranteed by the reporting carried out by the Ministry of Justice and Security? How does the Minister ensure that the OVV can continue to carry out its work independently? Thirdly, Mr President. The Board's investigations and findings often cover policy areas of ministries other than the Ministry of Justice and Security. I ask the Minister how the coordination of the policy responses of the various ministries takes place. Is he the boss or does he always have to tune in with his fellow executives first? How high is the bar for the different departments not only to come up with a policy response, but also to actually implement the recommendation? Should we not move towards mandatory implementation of the recommendations and a mandatory and explicit motivation for postponing or rejecting a recommendation? Finally, on this point. How does the Research Council cooperate with the inspections? In this light, how does the Minister look at the plea of Mr OvV President Pieter van Vollenhoven, who has already been mentioned, to merge all inspections and the council? Finally, a few practical questions about the functioning of the Council. The Board regularly hires external researchers to carry out investigations. Does the board have sufficient capacity, occupation and funding? Is it solid enough to be able to pick up all these questions and requests and initiate research yourself? What about the Council's investigations in the other parts of the Kingdom, except the Netherlands? Do Aruba and the other parts of the Caribbean Netherlands know how to find the council? The council should also be able to find the detectors. D66 attaches great importance to the transparency and accountability of reports made to the Board. Is the Minister going to do something about promoting this transparency and, if so, what suggestions does he make for this? In short, D66 welcomes the functioning of the board and continues to work for a strong and independent council in the future. I have tabled three amendments to that effect. I am, of course, looking forward to the Minister's response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u14	Thank you. I call Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u15	Thank you, Madam President. After the fireworks disaster in Enschede and the catastrophic café fire in Volendam, we realized that there was no permanent body in the Netherlands that could really investigate serious security incidents. This led to the creation of the OVV, the Security Research Council in 2005. In the meantime, except perhaps in Russia, the OVV has built up worldwide credit for the way in which these incidents have been investigated, in which the security of citizens has been put at risk beyond their fault. These are major, minor incidents and incidents of the sub-category. Of course, we are thinking first of all of the MH17 investigation into the flight disaster of 17 July 2014. The OVV study will also play an important role in the criminal proceedings that will begin shortly. There are also much smaller investigations, such as an ultralight aircraft, a TL-3000 Sirius, which fell apart two months ago at the Middenmeer airport. And of course also the politically more sensitive but also influential research into the former and new celebrations in the Netherlands, which hopefully will lead to a safer and festive year change. All in all, the OVV has definitely earned its spurs and makes a substantial contribution to a safer Netherlands in many areas. It's an organization that might actually be more developed than its legal jacket. That's why it's good to talk about some changes in the law. This isn't the most controversial bill this week. I think we've just had a much bigger conflict. I think that the most complex part here, for my group in any case, is whether we should also include disturbances of public order in the scope of the OVV research. I just had a little chat with Mr Van Dam about that. At the moment, a disturbance of public order is excluded as a field of research for the OVV. But is that the right cut or is it really a matter of not allowing the OVV to investigate the enforcement action of the authorities? Let me give you an example. If, on 4 May, there is an enormous disturbance of order at the Time of Death in Amsterdam and the local authority asks whether research can be carried out here by the OVV, do we think it is possible to investigate this disturbance of public order, but that this is not about investigating the action of the authorities or how they are organised in the context of enforcement? I know that the Minister had previously put forward a proposal to remove that part of the "disorder of law" from the bill. There was a great deal of criticism from the Council of State at the time, because it was actually too big and it was not clear exactly what was going on with the action of competent authorities to maintain public order. I have just tabled an amendment to remove that part, as proposed by the Minister, but would like to add to part B that action by the authorities, including public policy, is excluded from the scope of the OVV. I think it is important to get a new opinion from the Council of State on this, because I do attach great importance to the opinion of the Council of State. I think there was one of the pain points here for the Council of State. Maybe we can get some new advice on this. I'm rounding up. I supported the D66 amendment on reporting. What does the Minister himself think about having to report annually on the follow-up to the OVV recommendations? Isn't it a bit of a crazy situation that the OVV increasingly conducts investigations, also at the request of local authority, with often recommendations to local authority, and the minister then has to report on it? Isn't it better to leave the report on the follow-up of the recommendations to the OVV itself? Then the Minister will be able to respond as far as his own affairs are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u16	Not only to allow Mrs Buitenweg some more speaking time, but also because I sincerely do not understand it. I read in the first sentence of the explanatory statement of the amendment: 'This amendment aims to regulate the applicant's intention to allow the Research Council to carry out investigations into public order cases, with the exception of those relating to the maintenance of public order'. Do you mean only public order cases that have gotten out of hand? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u17	I think the cut should be in the event of a disturbance of law and order, as I said on 4 May, when suddenly there was a major disturbance on the Dam. I can imagine that something is happening, that apparently an unsafe situation has arisen, that many citizens are unsafe, beyond their knowledge, and that local authority then asks whether it can be investigated how such an unsafe situation could occur. I think it's wise that the OVV should be able to investigate that. The question is whether you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u18	I live on the assumption that the OVV can investigate that already, if he is invited by the local authorities to investigate it. This happened in Scheveningen and Haaksbergen, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u19	Yeah, right, I'd like to get into that. This is totally true. I think the O.V.V. has grown out of his legal jacket. It is true that it is already happening, but in the law I see that an incident which may be investigated by the OVV does not mean a disturbance of public order. The complicated problem is that it's already happening and we're all allowing it, but it's not quite in line with the law. Then I think maybe we should take the cut somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u20	I see two lines of discussion in your proposal. The one you're now naming is that they're already doing it. Then I say: they do so at the invitation of a mayor, who can embed it with the council and everything that happens there. That is a different story than that the OVV, however expert, is flying by and suddenly starts an investigation in which everyone is so to speak municipal on hold. Let's get back to the other line. You're referring to the Dam Screamer, someone who does something to get all kinds of people moving. I don't quite understand your proposal. If that Dam Screamer is screaming and it becomes a disturbance of public order, then your proposal applies. And if we're dealing with a bunch of cool frogs and nothing happens on the Dam, then no. Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u21	You should see it in such a way that the OVV is not investigating how enforcement is organised: is the police organisation completely in order? That's not what the O.V.V. is about. But if there has been a disturbance of public order which has affected the security of citizens beyond their fault, then that is a bit of what it is about.... then the OVV is about it. You said: even if it is not in the law, the OVV can still go its divine way, if it is asked by local authority. I find that complicated again, because here we have a law which states what the OVV is allowed to do and not to do. It does not say: he may indeed investigate a disturbance of law and order if requested by local authority. It doesn't say that in the law. The law says: no, this is not the job of the OVV. I think we both think it should be possible, but I would like to invite you to see how this can be regulated in the law. Because it's a bit of a crazy situation: we think it should be possible and it's actually happening, but the law doesn't provide for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u22	Mr Van Dam, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u23	Finally. You know, there are two discussions. I'm gonna go back to the first discussion anyway. Yesterday, farmers here in the city held a demonstration. At some point, the ME has acted to keep people away from ministries. It all went pretty well. Is that, in your view, a situation in which public order has been maintained or a situation in which it has not been maintained? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u24	I don't know exactly where to draw those boundaries either. What I see now is that according to this law, the OVV is not authorised to investigate certain matters on its own. I believe that the OVV should keep out of the organisation of the maintenance of public order: how does the police work here? That's the difference. I think the OVV should stay out there, say in general. But as soon as there's an incident, that needs to be investigated. That could also be an incident occurring here on the Square. That could also be an incident with farmers. I do not propose that the OVV should do all of this, because I can imagine that it is nice to have an invitation from, for example, a local authority once in a while, as you say. But the law doesn't provide for that option. This means that we are currently dealing with situations where the OVV is actually acting in a way that we like, but not in a legal sense facilitate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u25	Okay. You had come to the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u26	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u27	Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Buitenweg said, this is probably not the most complex debate today or this week. Still, I do have some input. I am glad that my colleagues have asked so many questions; some of them also live with me. Mr. Chairman. We're an inquisitive people. It is very important for us Dutch people that we learn from our mistakes, at least in an attempt not to make them again in the future. Research into the causes of disasters and accidents has been carried out in the Netherlands for more than 100 years. After having had several committees of inquiry over the past decades, the Research Council for Security was established in 2005. It was cited by several colleagues. An important objective was to accommodate several sectors in a permanent committee of inquiry. The aim of all studies is to learn from events and prevent future events. The Research Council is competent to conduct research in virtually all fields and in all sectors and has far-reaching powers for conducting research. Mr President, this is something my colleagues, the Minister and you, of course, know, but it is important to repeat what we are talking about here. It's really about something. It is essential that we consider this very carefully. It is particularly important to emphasise independence. That is a very important factor. That is what I have heard several colleagues say. Today, a number of technical changes are ahead, partly on the basis of an evaluation of years ago, of 2014 if I am right. I believe that Mr Van Dam of the CDA asked in the written round how it could have taken so long. There will be a reply from the cabinet, from the minister, but I think it is good to agree now that we are not going to see it again that we are talking about an evaluation and proposals so many years later. This should be made more flexible next time. Then there are the proposals. I would like to know from the Minister how the proposals now before us contribute to a transparent, independent and effective Research Council. I've also heard different opinions and ideas. As a VVD, we also like that. But I think it is very important for the Minister to go into those recommendations more closely, as well as the input of both the Research Council and the Council of State. This is, for example, about the point Mrs Buitenweg has long referred to: do you have to add or not add disturbances of public order? I must say that the debate between Mr Van Dam and Mrs Buitenweg left me more confused. I understand the need, but at the same time it became apparent that it is very difficult to lay down a clearly defined framework of how it should or should not be. But perhaps the Minister can go into that, because I know that he has also given a lot of thought and has deliberately chosen not to present it now in this way. Mr. Chairman. I think I've actually asked all my questions. I don't want to repeat any other questions, so I'm gonna leave it at that. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u29	Thank you. I'm suspending until 8:30, and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u30	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u31	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to be able to speak with you here tonight about the bill amending the National Research Council Act. In 2014, the Sint Commission evaluated the effectiveness and effectiveness of the functioning of the Research Council. This evaluation showed that the Research Council is functioning well and that the Rijkswet Research Council needs to be adapted in a number of respects. This is the bill that deals with that. Mr. Chairman. I have received questions which, in many cases, correspond to the amendments. I would therefore like to take the amendment to the question in question immediately, for the sake of an efficient and clear answer for all of you. The first question was about the term of office. That term of office was up to six years, but now the amendment on item No. 10 proposed to bring it back to four years. That's the thought I'm judging Chamber. I must say that it is not a point that weighs heavily on me. I'm fine with both of them. Mr. Chairman. The second question concerned the question of... No, let me get back to the appointment first. I was just discussing the amendment to item No. 10. That's what I gave Chamber judgment. I'm gonna go ahead with the nominations, or we're gonna go right through them. Perhaps then I do not have the numbering of the amendments in order. If that is an objection, then I will simply answer the questions and then I will give an opinion on the amendments later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u32	We'll keep track.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u33	Mr President, that is fantastic. The diversity of the composition and restraint of the appointment have been called for. I must advise against that amendment, not because I would not understand it or because I would not agree with it, but there are two things. Firstly, on 3 February, the Minister for the Interior sent a letter to your Chamber on an evaluation of the framework law on independent administrative bodies and the framework law on advisory committees. It announced that the method of appointment of members of, among other things, independent administrative bodies would be examined. I do not think that I should anticipate that, apart from the fact that you would really have a fundamental discussion, which belongs there, or at least was announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This automatically means that I have the amendment to item No. 14 detachment. That is the amendment that I am saying is in anticipation of the evaluation of the framework law, and so on. That does not alter the fact that I can refer to the other related amendment, Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 15, however, would like to leave it to the Court's judgment. That amendment concerns informing the States General about the procedure followed and the selected candidate. In doing so, your Chamber has an ex post responsibility for the procedure followed and for the candidate. If anything comes out of the evaluation of the framework law on the content of the procedure, it will be regulated by the framework law. Well, then, may I direct it to Mrs. Den Boer through you, Mr. Chairman? This is a kind of icing on the cake, a kind of whipped cream on the cake, namely that even myself or my successor, despite the fact that that framework law was or was not followed, should be held accountable at least after the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u34	If I have heard correctly, therefore, you are not suggesting the amendment to item No. 14 and gets the amendment in part No. 15 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u35	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u36	Let me be clear: what is the moment when the Minister does so? The amendment states: the selected candidate. Is this about the selected candidate or the nominated candidate? I do not know whether that is the ambition of the authors of the amendment or whether the Chamber will be given a role in the appointment. Let me get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u37	I took it this way. It is good that Mr Van Dam is touching this. I have understood that the procedure has now been completed and a candidate has been selected, who has also been appointed. That's how I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u38	The Minister's reading is correct. But I wanted to ask him another question. It shall concern the reappointment of the Chairperson or permanent members of the Board. What's the Minister's position on that? Does he see any opportunity to shake up the bed, so to speak, and also to modernise and make it transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u39	This is an issue that should be particularly addressed in the evaluation of the framework law. That is typical of the evaluation, because then, in a general sense, in such a framework law, you have to indicate what the test stones are to prevent it from becoming the norm, as Mrs Den Boer points out in the draft Explanatory Memorandum of the amendment. But then you must have certain criteria for this and they must be linked again. On Mr Van Dam's point, if that leads to a misunderstanding, it would certainly be advisable for the amendment to be clearer about the procedure followed and the candidate appointed after selection. That is a small change to the amendment to item No. 15. With that change, I will pass the amendment on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u40	I will certainly consider that suggestion. I'd like to take a good look at that. I would like to point out, before the Acts, that the evaluation referred to by the Minister will not be completed until the end of 2021. It is therefore going to take a very long time before we have the results of the evaluation of the framework law and its consequences. I shall therefore see if I can still table the amendment in order to see what the Chamber wants with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u41	Until then, the amendment to item No. 15 which is introduced into the law, the cake itself. In this case, there is a clear responsibility of this Minister at the end. If that framework law means that we are indeed framing a number of rules such as amendment No. 14, then that will be the cake and amendment to item No. 15 later the whipped cream, but it has already been introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u42	I have tabled both amendments with Mr Sneller, so I am going to consider these comments from the Minister. Of course, I welcome the Court's opinion on that one amendment on transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u44	Then there was an amendment to part No. 12 members Den Boer and Buitenweg. This means that the Board will now report its findings, recommendations and follow-up directly to the Court. I do not recommend that amendment, and I am going to explain it. Let me start by saying that the Research Council is not a High College of State. That is, by the way, a predicate, if you can call it that, which determines the Constitution, and which is also subject to the Compatibility Act. So it's not. This also means that the Council falls under the political responsibility of the Minister. The Research Council is an independent administrative body independent of the government and other parties. This independence is legally well secured and the council has demonstrated it continuously in the past. This has also been demonstrated by the first two policy evaluations, the first by Commission-Sint and then by Commission-Schnabel. It is therefore also up to the Research Council itself to decide, independently of compulsory investigations, whether, and if so, when and in what way it initiates an investigation. As Minister of Justice and Security, I have political responsibility and responsibility for the proper functioning of the system and system of the OVV. By informing the States-General about the recommendations and positions, I am fulfilling that ministerial responsibility. Your Chamber can appeal to me on that. If the OVV is going to do so itself, this ministerial responsibility towards the Chamber will be undermined, because independent administrative bodies do not assume any responsibility towards parliament. In addition, the Rijkswet already has a power for the OVV to send its annual report to the States General with an overview of investigations, conclusions and recommendations, namely Article 25. You will also find this simply reflected in the division of powers as currently contained in the National Security Research Council Act. One might have thought of including in an amendment the text 'Our Minister sends after consultation with our ministers who are concerned, but not more than four weeks, I shall mention just one thing after having received the report and without any reduction or otherwise...' In any event, in the context of this parliamentary debate, I can say that, as far as I am concerned, Article 75 must be read in such a way that it means that within a short period of time, not more than four weeks, the Minister must forward that report, and that that means that the Minister must transmit the report with annexes without any processing. In any case, it is the most important guarantee that this report will be sent to the Chamber without delay and without delay, as is the case at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u45	This is the result of the amendment to item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution. 12. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u46	So it's not advisable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u47	I'm triggered by the word "unshortened." I have a quick question. I am also concerned about the responsibility of the Minister, because he has to report on the recommendations of the OVV. My question is: how can this be done if, for example, the recommendations were addressed to local authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u48	That doesn't change that. The law indicates that our Minister, who is here at the moment, at least the person who, after consulting the ministers concerned, is informing the Chamber of the report. That is the way it should be, as I have just explained, within the framework of political responsibility. I am responsible for ensuring that this really happens, in full, in the right way and more so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u49	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u50	How then are the recommendations addressed to local authority followed by this minister? That's not how things are, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u51	No, the Minister can indicate on that report what is being done in the context of the follow-up, even if it is a local authority. We shall come back to this later on when the task is extended, but I do not have to tell you everything about the plot. If, for example, a municipality says 'we have read it, but we see it differently' or whatever, that is equally fully communicated to the Chamber. Let's just say it's a responsibility of my ministry or of a fellow ministry. Then you will know that the cabinet speaks with one voice and that there will be a reaction that will immediately lead to political responsibility for the minister. We have seen a number of times that it is a local issue or a matter of local elements. I'm saying by heart, the council is also going to investigate the apartment fire in Arnhem. I feel like there's nodding in the room here and there. Then I am obliged to ensure that that report is delivered to you in its entirety, with all the annexes and all the more so. Then we can debate it. Whether these conclusions have any repercussions for myself or another member of the cabinet should then be shown. But I'm politically responsible for it getting to you in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u52	Before I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer, the Minister and the four spokesmen of this evening, I would like to point out that there is yet another legislative procedure on the agenda. I would like you to put your question briefly, and I would also ask the Minister to reply briefly and concisely. Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u53	On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 12 has just been a debate on recommendations from the OVV to local government, but there are also recommendations addressed to the minister himself. How can he judge the recommendations that are coming to his plate? On the contrary, we want to relieve the Minister with this amendment. Isn't it much more convenient to make it easier and report directly to the Chamber? This also benefits transparency and independence and democratic control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u54	But now you are talking about the state-law issue of political responsibility for the report, that is to say that it will be there in full and what more. I have just quoted the text, but I am not allowed to do so as the OVV itself says about the proper functioning of the system and the system. That's a political responsibility I have. It is now confusing you with the possible partial or total responsibility, for example, for example, I would like to mention what is called an investigation into one of my services. As a minister, I am responsible for the conclusions and recommendations that follow. But that is a different debate than that I am responsible for the system of the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u55	Mrs. Den Boer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u56	We disagree on this. In any case, I do not want to end up as a confused person in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u57	No, that wasn't suggested at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u58	The amendment in part No. 12 is in any case dissuaded. Then there is the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u59	That is the standardisation of deadlines. That's gonna get judgment, Room. I think that is an excellent amendment, so we can do so. Then, of course, comes the crux of the amendments: the addition of 'to maintain public order'. The Council of State has given the most serious negative operative part here. Now I can all read huge lyrics about that not just happening, and so on, but we know that. I would just like to quote from the argument of the Council of State, on page 3: 'For this reason, the maintenance of public order has traditionally been entrusted to the municipal authorities who are well aware of the local situation and are therefore best placed to assess the actual effects of disorder in local society with its particular social and cultural characteristics'. And on page 4: "The maintenance of public order is, in view of the above characteristics, an inherently open and spacious area requiring an assessment based on local circumstances." Then there's another piece that I'm not going to quote to meet you. But we really need to be careful right now. We have in our system a division of all kinds of responsibilities. Earlier today, I spoke with some of you about the division of roles in, for example, the use of police. There, too, you can see that local responsibilities have national responsibilities. The Council of State is actually saying here: listen, you shouldn't confuse things now. Certainly not so easy, the Council of State says, because the piece I did not quote is about saying that there is a whole context behind why it is happening one local and the other nationwide. You're gonna completely trample that whole context, including regulation. At the end of Mrs Buitenweg's term, I tasted that she was inclined to say: let's take a good look at this again. I am also working on this with the VNG and then go back to the Council of State. That's how I set it up. I told my official that we should not include this in the bill now, but according to the old saying: reculer pour mieux sauter. It really requires me to share that with the Council of State a more fundamental study of how we are going to organise the division of responsibility in this kind of thing. I would like to do that if your Chamber says the same thing, but as an amendment you can pretty much guess that I come to the judicium 'dissuaded'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u60	At the same time, I am thinking of all kinds of French sayings: returnnons à nos maltons, namely return to our stick horse. But what else do I want to know: what problem does the Minister see, for which he is now going to seek a solution with, among other things, the VNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u61	Actually, I don't see a problem like that in advance. I also had an informal exchange of views with the current President, in the sense that it was a real discussion. We both came to the conclusion that, of course, there are always some elements of public order that pass through in an investigation. What is at issue here, the Council of State says, is really extending the task of maintaining public order. That is what the Council of State says: that should not happen, because then you are really going to confuse all kinds of things in our state system. This is without prejudice to the possibility of a local initiative on this point. To make a long story short, I said: let's look at it very carefully with the VNG. And perhaps I will come back to it later in a letter to your Chamber to say: these are the results of my reflections with the VNG, and then we should debate this with each other. Then we can look at: do we want this or don't we want this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u62	I find it interesting that the Minister says: in fact, there is no wish at all for the OVV to deal with the maintenance of public order. But I agree with him. For that was not the point; it was not about maintaining public order. In the amendment, I add: what should be excluded from the work of the OVV is the action of competent authorities, in order to maintain the legal order, including public policy. Then it is quite clear: we are not talking about maintaining public order. What matters is that there are incidents involving a disturbance of public order. That's point a. My amendment removes that, but adds something to point b, which then becomes point a. As a result, it is clear that it is not about maintaining public order, but that the OVV can act in the event of disorder. And perhaps in addition, the Council of State did not advise on this. Because it fell over enforcement, and I'm trying to find a solution to that. Perhaps it would be good to see what the Council of State would advise on that solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u63	Mr. Chairman. Let me say the following. Disruption and enforcement: these two are, I would almost say, the negative and the positive numbers that are opposite each other. And what the Council of State points out is a little earlier: "The bill proposes to extend the tasks of the Research Council to public order incidents." The heading under b is also "Special nature public order'. Mr. Chairman. I want to say this in a courteous way. But let me put it as I just said, so, in this context, disturbance and maintenance of public order are two connected or linked phenomena in the field of public order. Once again, I am happy to say to each other that, once we have discussed this at length, we will return to your Chamber with a letter evaluating that conversation or what has come out of it and then see what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u64	Your amendment is not recommended, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u65	I would like to make one final comment, and then I will leave it at that. But many things that are being investigated, for example in the bonfires in The Hague or in Haaksbergen, are, of course, a disturbance of public order. What bothers me is that an investigation is indeed being carried out there, but that is actually legally excluded. I think that's a strange situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u66	Now we're going to have a very semantic discussion. For I believe that it was precisely one of the interesting aspects of the case of the bonfires that was made in public order for the making of bonfires, of quite considerable piles of wood, as I noticed. And then you come back to this whole discussion: it was not so much a question of enforcement or disruption. It was more about creating space in public order, or just in the city, to create a bonfire. The Research Council then carried out an investigation into this. I would also like to stress, as I also discussed with the President in that meeting: you will always see that enforcement comes somewhere in the event of security incidents. You better hope there's a firefighter in there, too. But I'd like to go back, because we shouldn't be talking about this too long. I really want to say two more things. One. As far as I am concerned, we are going to have this debate when I have spoken to the VNG. The second is a little hard for me to say. I find it really very difficult to have an amendment at all to a law on which the Council of State has given such a negative opinion. I would like to give that to everyone in mind. I think I've answered most of the cases. That transparency and independence that Mrs Yeşilgöz asked a question about are very much contained in the articles of law of the Rijkswet. I would like to refer to that for the sake of time. I'm still looking around, but I think I've answered all the questions. But maybe I forgot something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u67	I'm afraid so. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u68	I will consider what I will do with the amendment. If the Minister does go into consultation with the UNG and writes a letter, I will think about it. I do remember that the government feels it is of such importance when the Council of State gives a negative opinion on something. We will undoubtedly have it again and again that I take this back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u69	That's a disguised threat. You're not gonna respond to that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u70	Yes, I do. I understand that you want to continue, but in all courtesy: I am going to react very quickly and talk very quickly. I can talk very quickly in constitutional and constitutional terms. I say the following, Mr President: I did indeed have one time in your Chamber when you were not there, but Mrs Buitenweg may well have been there in connection with the legislative proposal. Who remembers this? Mr Van Dam also warned in March 2018 that an amendment that was tabled made the bill so different from what the Council of State had said. In the lawyer-fishermen's Latin, we call it denaturation. Then you really have to say, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, We shouldn't do that. That is not entirely good in our state system, in our rule of law. I promised Mrs Buitenweg that I would return to you before the summer with a letter on the outcome of those talks with the UNG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u71	Thank you. I assume that Members do not need a second term, but I should, of course, be sure to ask for it. But I didn't get the impression, she said hopefully. I see that's right. That brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-19.u72	We are going to vote on the amendments and the legislative proposal on 3 March, after the crocus recess.
