ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Consumer Protection Enforcement Act implementing a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation and repealing Regulation (EC) No. 2006/2004, known to us under No. 35251. A number of speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. Of course, I would like to begin by welcoming the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u2	As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mr Aartsen of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Madam President. We are talking today about the law on consumer law enforcement. You will not often hear the VVD say that we are very pro rules. In general, we are not that big of a deal and we have something like that: we don't have to have a lot of them in the economic field; that's so nice. But what is also nice is that we do have rules in a number of areas, including consumer protection. If you buy an iPhone plug, it's nice to assume that it won't burn if you put it next to your nightstand. If you buy cosmetics, it's also nice if you don't get red bumps on your face. It's also nice that if you want to book a restaurant on the internet, you can assume that the reviews you read there are at least honest and real instead of being paid ads to make money. Mr. Chairman. This Regulation provides for additional powers for supervisors to act when certain market players fail to comply. I think that is a good thing, especially in a market that takes place online and outside the Netherlands, or even outside the European Union. In particular, we welcome the power given to a number of parties to address online platforms, interfaces and websites, not only to fine with a penalty payment and not just to write, but to block them if they do not respond in the end or, in my own words, to blackmail them. We are not supposed to do that, but it is important that we have that competence, so that parties within and outside the European Union know that our rules are not to be fooled. If they receive a registration of the ACM, for example, they must comply with it, because in the worst case, we are prepared to have a website blacked out through the judge-supervisor. I think that's a good authority to have. I do have a question about the scope, because this law applies to traders, parties who sell themselves. There's the shoe gonna wring a little bit. Because we have asked a number of questions about certain webshop platforms outside the European Union, specifically a party like Alibaba. We know that unsafe products enter the Netherlands via that platform and that they are also sold improperly. In other words, unsafe products can be bought, and if a consumer makes a mispurchase, if something does not work, he or she cannot contact directly to hold the selling party directly liable. My question to the Secretary of State is: to what extent is this law a solution? To what extent does this law ensure that clubs of this kind can be dealt with, so that they are held liable? Specific EU Regulation 2000/31/EC, Article 15 ensures that such clubs have found some sort of loophole in the law. If I buy something from a Dutch web store, then he or she is responsible for the product purchased and I can therefore go to the Dutch court and say: I want to get my right, because I have made a miscarriage. Or I can go to the ACM and say: I bought that product there and there; it is an unsafe product, can you act against it? Specific webshop platforms such as Alibaba spring from the dance and therefore their responsibility, because they are therefore not responsible and are not responsible for the products themselves on the basis of that EU regulation. In other words, it's a kind of professional marketplace. You don't buy a product directly from a platform like Alibaba, but you buy a product from a producer somewhere in Shenzhen, and if you want to get justice, you'll have to go to Hong Kong. Well, get on it. In other words, these kind of intermediaries spring from the dance. I would like to say that we have also called on the Secretary of State and the Cabinet a number of times if we can now tackle these kinds of parties, so that we can ultimately have safe products in the Netherlands, prevent unsafe products, hold parties liable and, where necessary, even blackmail them. Another point is the online reviews I've been talking about before. Last week there was another broadcast of Rambam, where it was shown that at a platform like TheFork some things are happening that we think are happening: "Hm, what the hell would that be like? How the hell do you get an 8.2 as a review in a neprestaurant?" There is something wrong with that, and it turns out that there are economic benefits for these kinds of parties. If you book a restaurant somewhere, you should be able to trust as a consumer that it is just right and that you know that it is a real person who posted this review. If you book a restaurant you should see the best restaurant and not the best paying restaurant. The latter is not prohibited, but we call it advertising. Then you say, "I'm the best restaurant in the world, and I paid a lot of money for it." Then you do it on a normal, decent poster and then it says it's advertising. I think that is how a fair market works and how a good market master closely monitors a liberal economy. My question to the Secretary of State is: what can the ACM mean in this respect? Can we ask for transparency from such platforms? How do these kinds of reviews come about and what can we do about it? Mr. Chairman. Those were my questions to the Secretary of State about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. As a second speaker from the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Madam President. To a large extent, of course, I agree with what my colleague, Mr Aartsen said. I may also have a question of my own. It is, of course, an improvement in consumer law. Who could be opposed to that? No MP, of course, that's why the turnout is so big. But the PVV is also in favour of European cooperation, especially when it comes to our internal market. This kind of thing would also have happened within the EEC, which we are not opposed to either. We were very much in favour of that, and we still are. Indeed, the proposal gives additional powers to supervisors if they do not comply with the law. This applies to parties within and outside the European Union. No one can argue with that either. But I do need one more guarantee from the Secretary of State. Because I can't see that right now. I want the Secretary of State to ensure that this is not an excuse for more interference from the European Union. Because that's often the story. We'll agree to something, and that all looks nice and nice. We certainly want to work together, like I said. That would also have happened within the EEC. There is nothing wrong with working together within the internal market, but we do want to remain in charge of our own country and our own rules in this respect. I would like a guarantee from the Secretary of State on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I had to wait 18 years to talk about consumer protection again. Eighteen years ago I graduated and I finished my studies with a thesis like many others. The title of that thesis was Consumer Protection in distance contracts. There was a nice picture of a cyber shopping cart. It has fallen somewhat and of course the world has also changed in eighteen years, especially when it comes to doing business online and shopping. It is good that we are talking tonight about tightening up legislation on this issue. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for preparing the bill and answering the questions we asked in the written period. These questions concerned in particular the establishment of the procedures for the use of the two new powers conferred on our national supervisors by this bill and the legal safeguards in that regard. As indicated above, the CDA considers it important to cooperate at European level to ensure adequate protection of consumers' rights, including in the case of Internet traffic and new forms of trade. My colleague Van den Berg, from whom I took over this dossier, launched the CDA Consumer Agenda a year ago, with ten points for a fairer consumer environment, including online buying. The CDA considers it important that consumers can shop and do business safely online, that web shops and digital platforms comply with the rules, that consumers are not misled with false information or fake offers, that crooked web stores can be taken offline faster and that consumers can count on safe products, even if they come from outside the European Union. Mr Aartsen has just mentioned this, among other things with regard to product safety. CDA and D66 have also already tabled a motion on this Consumer Agenda to have a liability officer appointed within the European Union by platforms coming from outside the European Union. With this bill, the regulators who monitor compliance with the law are given the opportunity to do mystery shopping. This will enable control and enforcement to take place effectively. We think that is a good step. In addition, supervisors are also given the power to restrict a trader's websites, apps and other online interfaces after approval by a court. That is a far-reaching competence, but we believe it is necessary, given the digital age in which we live. We are therefore also in favour of this amendment of the law. One issue we would like to draw attention to here is the crooked web stores, which offer luxury products with high discounts, but in reality sell fake products or even deliver nothing at all. According to the Consumers' Association, they often use existing, unused domain names and use a label illegally. Among other things, the police and various consumer platforms regularly publish lists of well-known fake shops on their website. My question to the Secretary of State is: can this bill also deal with such malicious practices? Mr President, in conclusion. We welcome this bill, which contributes to better protection of consumer interests and to combating unfair commercial practices. This is another part of our Consumer Agenda that we see as a CDA. We are still considering putting forward a motion to see what we can explicitly do against that multi-headed problem of those crooked web stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the Chamber. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. She would like five minutes to prepare the response. To that end, I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u9	I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the enforcement of consumer protection. Protection against cross-border infringements of consumer rights is governed by the CPC Regulation, the Consumer Protection Cooperation Regulation. That Regulation regulates cooperation between consumer supervisors from European Member States and with the European Commission. The draft law before us merely regulates the two new powers which are contained in this regulation and which do not yet exist in the Netherlands. I have not actually heard any comments from the Members of Parliament who have spoken, but much more about their application. That is why I think I will be very brief in my reply. I now come to the specific questions that have been put to me. Mr Aartsen of the VVD Group asked to what extent platforms from outside the European Union, such as AliExpress, are covered by this regulation. The competence with regard to websites relates to all websites, including those from outside the European Union. If a platform violates consumer protection rules, the competent authority may address that website. If that does not provide any comfort, the competent authority may appeal to the person who is able to do so in the Netherlands, for example hosting providers, to remove the content of that website, to make the website inaccessible or to include a clear warning. The condition is, of course, that there is a party in the Netherlands that is capable of doing so. Mr Aartsen also asked me about the online reviews. Anyone who buys over the internet will of course soon be looking for reviews. That's why it's so important that you can rely on what's in there. Ignorances that occur in the case This is already not permitted under the Civil Code. The ACM can and does act against this. For example, they can view the books and gain insight into how the company handles them. I see Mr. Aartsen standing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u11	Sure. He's coming forward, too, so we're gonna give him the floor. Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. I asked the question specifically with regard to the platforms because lawyers state I ask the Secretary of State if they are right in saying that a platform like Alibaba is not the party with which you do business. In legal terms, that's not the trader, it's an intermediary. I referred to Article 15 of EU Regulation 2000/31/EC. I am once again indulging in it which expressly states that an intermediary such as such a platform cannot be held liable. In other words, when I buy a product, I buy it from any manufacturer somewhere far in China and I still have to see how I'm going to do it. Maybe it's just as good... If there is a permanent presence of unsafe products on a platform as I have mentioned as an example, I think that has been demonstrated a number of times already, can the ACM take the entire platform offline with this power? Or should the ACM then choose for each product? That is many millions, perhaps tens of millions? Or can the entire platform be offline?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u13	You must make a difference here between consumer protection and safe or unsafe products. These are two different legal issues. The issue of safe or unsafe products is part of the market surveillance regulation, which will apply in 2021. You will find legislation on this in your inbox. It does not mean that nothing will happen in that area. We have the Product Safety Pledge, where Alibaba has also joined. This shows that if the competent authorities report that there is an unsafe product, some 70% to 80% of the websites connected to this pledge will take their products offline within the specified time limit. Something's happening. What Mr Aartsen is now putting forward is, in my view, the e-commerce directive. It now ensures that platforms are not liable for what is posted on their websites if they do not directly influence them. Airbnb is the same discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u14	I have no doubt of the Secretary of State's intentions. That goes for everyone. I think we all want to do that. But this bill, which we have asked for a number of times, and also specifically this part, shows that it is at the heart of the problem: a platform is not itself held responsible for what it contains, in accordance with the EU e-commerce regulation. It seems to me that that is the crux of the problem, and we want to adapt it in the future. I think it is good that the Secretary of State has made a hard effort to remove those unsafe products. Only, it's many tens of millions of products. Just give it to the ACM to figure it all out one by one. That's impossible; that's not gonna work. The same applies to the customs inspection, with 70,000 packages per day. That's not gonna be him. We have to tackle it at the core, which is why I'm addressing this problem. It is good to hear now that this proposal cannot yet be fully dealt with. As far as we are concerned, Mr President, I shall close, because that is for my second term, Mr Alibaba and the parties must really be covered by this bill, both in terms of unsafe products and in terms of defective products.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u15	This plea doesn't sound strange to me. It is just an issue that we need to look at very carefully with each other. That is why I asked the Economic and Social Committee for its opinion on this subject. For example, if you include in legislation that you can impose all kinds of additional requirements on platforms, you may also end up in situations where other Member States impose requirements on your own national platforms, large or starting. In addition, you may wonder if the cure isn't worse than the ailment. But in itself, I share Mr Aartsen's plea about constantly rising against electronic commerce regulation, which makes it much more difficult than you really want. I'm just saying that you have to look carefully at this, so that you don't end up with regulations that have such negative effects that you wonder: was this really meant to be? Mr. Chairman. I have another question from Mr Graus of the PVV, who indicated that he was in favour of the EEC. That's the well-known plea of the PVV. He asked me whether I can guarantee that this regulation is not an excuse for a further transfer of powers or further interference by the European Union. Of course, I can't give that guarantee. We have to wait and see what the European Commission is going to come up with on all kinds of different issues. It is true that the regulation as it stands today and the legislative proposal you are discussing tonight provide for additional national powers. That should sound like music to Mr Graus. Mr President, a final question from the CDA Group. Can crooked web stores selling fake products be tackled with this bill? This bill helps to tackle crooked web stores. The supervision with the fictitious identity can help to catch them on prohibited practices. And the notice and takedown power can be used to eventually remove these websites from the sky if necessary. They also asked for fake products. That applies to what I also said to Mr Aartsen. These are included in the Market Surveillance Regulation which will enter into force in 2021 and for which you will still receive implementing legislation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you. I look at the Chamber and see that there is a need for a second term, at least for two Members. To this end, I give the opportunity to the first speaker, Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u17	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her reply and also for the good debate we have just had. This was at the heart of how we will ultimately solve this problem in the future. I understand the care and I think it is good, but I am going to make a plea here to really go to Brussels to adapt that Article 15 of that European regulation on electronic commerce, so that we can ultimately also assume responsibility for platforms ourselves, and even end up blackmailing them year in, year out of millions of unsafe and defective products. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the Dutch should be able to order safe online products;]] [[noting that many products purchased online via platforms such as Alibaba do not comply with European consumer legislation;]] [[noting that web-shopping platforms such as Alibaba are not themselves liable for the products sold through that platform, which means that dangerous and unsafe products enter the Netherlands massively;]] [[calls on the government in Brussels to make web-shopping platforms such as Alibaba responsible and responsible for the products they offer so that they comply with consumer rules on product safety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen and Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35251-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u18	Thank you to Mr Futselaar for being here, so that we are allowed to take these steps today. Mr. Chairman. We have already had a debate on platforms and online reviews, and in particular on the transparency that certain online parties need to give about what they are doing online. It is good that the ACM can look specifically into the books, but I also think it is important that we demand transparency from these kinds of platforms as to how they handle those online reviews. There is a great deal of dissatisfaction among entrepreneurs and consumers. Hence the next motion to make this transparency possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas consumers attach great importance to online reviews and reviews;]] [[Whereas restaurateurs also suffer from cheating with reviews;]] [[noting that research carried out by Rambam shows that a platform such as TheFork is cheating with online reviews;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the ACM, to report this year on transparency of such booking platforms in order to counter online reviews and online reviews,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35251-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u19	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u20	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u21	Thank you, Mr President. We heard the Secretary of State say that this helps to maintain abuse and malicious practices online. That is, of course, ex post intervention. We think it would be good if we also looked at what we can do more broadly to prevent abuses of domain names, for example. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many crooked web stores, which make countless victims each year;]] [[Whereas malicious web stores often use existing, unused domain names, which are relatively easy to obtain and in large numbers;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the ACM and Consumer Union are already doing a lot to make consumers aware and alert and to eliminate online fake shops;]] [[Whereas Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 and the Consumer Protection Act;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how consumers can be better protected against malicious web stores by reviewing their current approach and exploring the need for additional measures, including the current domain name registration system;]] [[calls on the Government to draw attention to this also at European level and to report to the Court by the end of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35251-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u22	I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions have been tabled. The motion in part No. 8 members Aartsen and Palland see the possibility to make webshop platforms themselves responsible and liable for the products. On 7 November, I sent the Chamber a progress letter from the Consumer Agenda, stating that I am working on this particular issue. I just turned that in, too. I have asked the Committee on Consumer Affairs of the ESC for its opinion. I heard Mr Aartsen speak about Article 15 of the European Electronic Commerce Directive. There are also other things why it is complicated to address web platforms on their responsibility. I would like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber, because we share the inconvenience that platforms can hide behind legislation that has arisen at a time when the whole economy looked even different. As I am sure Mr Aartsen and Mrs Palland understand, this is European legislation, so it is part of the discussion with all the Member States. Once again, I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then there's the Archangel motion in part No. 9 about online reviews. I'm being asked to report on transparency of booking platforms in consultation with the ACM this year in order to avoid messing with online reviews and reviews. As has been said, it is important for consumers to be able to rely on this. It simply shouldn't be and that's why the ACM is acting against it now. I would like to consult with the ACM on what I can report to the Chamber when. I expect that this year will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u24	And with that, the motion gets the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u25	I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I thought I already said that. Then there is the motion for a resolution by Mr Palland on part No. 10, which I'm also judging Room. It calls on the government to examine how consumers can be better protected against malicious web shops. The practices described by Mrs Palland are appalling. We had a brief debate on it earlier. It is good to point out that fake products may fall under fraud. Then it's the police's move. When it comes to unsafe products, you come to the Market Surveillance Regulation, which enters into force 2021. The ACM acts against what is stated in this motion. This is done through enforcement, but also through information to consumers. I am happy to explore how this can be strengthened, including internationally, with the emphasis of course on the European context. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the treatment of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-12.u27	The votes will be next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State, who was out early this morning. It's a good thing the workday ends for her too. I thank the MPs and the others who are here. I'm closing the meeting.
