ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP for his questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, who replaces the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, on abuses in pig slaughterhouses. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "I saw a pig sink in the bowl and immerse in the hot water of about 60C. The animal continued to rage in such a way that the water gushed over the hotbed." "I saw several pigs pounding with their hind legs. I also saw a pig throwing its head back and starting to flutter. The animal was still alive." Mr. Chairman. These are quotes from reports of inspectors from the Food and War Authority on abuses in our slaughterhouses, in this case throwing live pigs into boiling water. These are things that happen when inspectors are on top of them. You don't really want to know what happens in abattoirs when they don't watch. These are just examples of a variety of abuses found in our slaughterhouses. Live pigs that end up in cadaver boxes, broken bones and severe inflammation and yet put on transport, animals that are kicked and beaten. It's to piss off. But it is also almost to be despondent because it is not the first time we have talked about the bad conditions in Dutch slaughterhouses. That has now become a permanent shot. My first question to the Minister is: does the cabinet agree with us that these are unacceptable examples and that we can no longer speak of incidents, but that some of the Dutch slaughterhouses have structural problems in breaking the rules on animal welfare? You can see that animal welfare is actually the lowest priority, while as much production speed as possible is the main goal. Then perhaps the most important question. We always see and talk about structural problems in this Chamber. Should we not simply note that there is a failure of supervision, that there are too few inspectors, that there is too much warning and too little enforcement, that fines seem to have no deterrent effect? Does the Minister see that the government is failing here and what is he going to do to solve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am indeed replacing Mrs Schouten, who unfortunately is home with the flu. It is not my portfolio, but I will try to answer Mr Futselaar's questions as well as possible. I thank him for the questions he has asked. By way of introduction, as Mr Futselaar said, the reports published by Pigs in Emergency are indeed based on violations detected by NVWA, which were also dealt with by NVWA in the form of measures and sanctions. These are animal suffering incidents which, of course, need to be prevented. Are they unacceptable examples? Yes. Is it incidents or is there something structural? In any case, these are persistent incidents, if I may put it that way. The NVWA also takes various measures to prevent these incidents. In line with the previous commitment of the Minister of Agriculture, the NVWA's intervention policy has been strengthened as of 1 December 2019. As a result, fines are higher in cases of infringements detected and penalties are also more quickly applied in cases of repeated infringements detected. The NVWA also established the framework for enhanced monitoring on 1 December. In the event of repeated infringements or serious in nature and extent, companies may be placed under enhanced supervision or the business activities may be shut down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister says: these are examples that a sanction has actually been applied. It's wonderful that the fines are increased. But when you read in reports that one slaughterhouse has been caught four times in one year of not intoxicating animals so that they drown alive in boiling water, every normal person wonders: how is it that this slaughterhouse is still open? Then you must realise that in practice supervision is not working well enough? Then you must realise that in practice it is more advantageous for slaughterhouses to ignore rules and perhaps to get a little bit of a hit on them sometimes than to keep to the rules. Yeah, things are happening. If it's okay, we're working on camera surveillance right now. Is the Minister now prepared to say: we are going to continue and we are ensuring mandatory surveillance of every slaughter line with external access for, for example, NVWA, so that they can see in practice what is happening in the workplace? Are we going beyond simple pilots and actually imposing measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	I understood in the preparation for this oral Question Time was discussed with the Minister for Agriculture on 15 October. Camera surveillance can indeed play a supporting role in the monitoring of slaughterhouses. In the AO NVWA of 15 October, the Minister for Agriculture informed your Chamber that the sector had discussed the introduction of camera surveillance. The sector has committed itself to achieving camera surveillance among all its members. The NVWA did another check there to see how many slaughterhouses are willing to do so voluntarily. Now it appears that the vast majority of slaughterhouses do indeed have camera surveillance, but that there are 13 companies, particularly medium-sized and smaller ones, which do not want to participate in this voluntary surveillance. They do not want this until there is an obligation to have permanent supervision at that company. In the short term, the Minister for Agriculture will decide on the approach to be applied to these slaughterhouses. The establishment of permanent monitoring, which could be decided, could entail a significant cost for the companies concerned, for which voluntary surveillance might be an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is not for nothing that I and others in this Chamber regularly ask for mandatory supervision. I think it's a cost. This applies to almost all animal welfare measures. That is why you see in practice that they are not followed, because abattoirs prefer to opt for the big money. Mr. Chairman. I understand we have a replacement minister here. But if I am speaking to the Minister for Social Affairs, I would also like to talk to you about working conditions in abattoirs. You hear disturbing stories about that too. The conditions in practice are harsh and unsafe, both for humans and animals. This is partly due to the huge production requirements imposed, for example, that 675 pigs are slaughtered in an hour, which then requires one veterinarian to monitor. The workload is so high that workers, who often lack language skills, have 30, 20-minute breaks that they need to use to meet the most basic hygiene requirements. This is a working environment where mistakes are very easy to avoid. Is the Minister prepared to have the work situation examined in slaughterhouses and to agree with slaughterhouses on a realistic rate of slaughter so that humans and animals are not unnecessarily at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	As far as I understand, the NVWA itself is currently testing the speed of tyres in slaughterhouses when it comes to hygiene and animal welfare, and it is also checking whether there are certificates for the people working there, for example certain safety certificates. Then I put on my other hat, namely as Minister of Social Affairs, responsible for the SZW Inspection. At least, the Secretary of State is responsible, but the inspection is under my ministry. It is true that slaughterhouses are subject to the risk-based supervision of the inspection SZW. As stated in the coalition agreement, 50 million extra has been made available for monitoring fair work and also healthy and safe working. The Inspection SZW also carries out risk-based surveillance in this sector and in practice enters slaughterhouses to check working conditions and whether the working conditions legislation we have in the Netherlands is being complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	This is undoubtedly an answer to questions, but not to questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	I think you will certainly come back to that in some debate. Then I will go to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Madam President. There is a debate to be held on this, and I am going to ask you to do so in a moment. It's about permanent camera surveillance. It is now also happening under the eyes of NVWA'ers. Those people really don't care about anything. This permanent monitoring must certainly be carried out in order to increase the chances of being caught. But what's the minister gonna do, what's the government gonna do about those animal executioners? They need to be caught by the shoelace, they need to be thrown into prison, as far as I'm concerned, put on water and bread, and they need to be banned for life from keeping animals, including private ones. They have to get a bereft bot, as the Germans say; that sounds even nicer. We just have to shut down a company like that. Why isn't that happening? As my colleague Mr Futselaar said, there are repeaters going on all the time, and there is no intervention at all. Where are the heavy penalties?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	Where's the bereft bot? Where is the closure of these horrible slaughterhouses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	I should like to mention three elements in reply to Mr Graus' question. I understand that from my first answer it has not become quite clear that the Minister of Agriculture believes that there should be camera surveillance, on the left or on the right. The question now is: how are we going to get the 13 companies that do not want to participate in the voluntary stand to carry out this surveillance? Secondly, I say to Mr Graus that the reporting by Pigs in Emergency at RTL News came as a result of the action of NVWA. The NVWA has brought this up and brought it to light, which also allows action to be taken to these companies where those mistakes are made. At the moment, I do not feel in a position to go very deeply into what else is going on in your sector. I am sure you will have a general discussion with the Minister for Agriculture in the near future with a view to discussing this in greater depth. I just don't have that knowledge; you'll have to forgive me for that. You can discuss this with the Minister for Agriculture shortly during a general discussion or a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr De Groot on behalf of D66. No, I hear Mrs. Bromet was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	Yes, Mrs. Bromet was before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mrs Bromet, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last time we had the debate on abuses in slaughterhouses, I remember very well. That debate was in September 2019 and I made my maiden speech. An outcome of the debate was that the Minister of Agriculture promised that there would be mandatory camera surveillance in small and medium-sized slaughterhouses. How's that going? The Minister who is here today has already answered that, but I am not satisfied with that. Because he is still talking about volunteering, while the Minister said more than a year ago that it must be made compulsory. So there are 13 abattoirs that don't use voluntary camera surveillance. However, an obligation has also been mentioned. When does this obligation enter into force and what is the consequence if slaughterhouses do not cooperate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	I myself have Mrs Schouten's quotes from that general discussion for me. It says, "You may hold me to the fact that camera surveillance is going to be there." That is what she said in this Chamber on 7 November in response to questions from your Chamber. I also said that the camera surveillance will be on the right or left. The point, of course, is that if you have to legislate on this, you have to start making laws. And that takes some time. So in view of the speed and effectiveness, it is better for the slaughterhouses themselves to do so. The vast majority of slaughterhouses, especially large slaughterhouses, are already doing so voluntarily. A small part doesn't want to cooperate yet. For that part, measures are now in preparation to enforce this, for example by making permanent supervision compulsory. This is simply a major cost, which increases the incentive to opt for camera surveillance. So much for my knowledge in this field, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	Support for the approach to simply make camera surveillance so attractive to all those companies that they simply implement it. But in the end, it's about preventing this kind of abuse. Another aspect is food safety. There's an incredible amount of defiled animal meat being cut away. First of all, those who offer the meat get less for their animals. Secondly, however, it brings with it a huge waste of food and a risk of contamination, a risk to food safety. So this band speed, the working conditions and the pressure on the inspectors are such that there are real risks to public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes, and your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	I would like to hear a response from the Minister. That can also be done in writing. But this is something that certainly needs to be given more attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	If I may, I would like to say that there is a written response from the Minister for Agriculture. Because I just don't know this detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'm going to transfer the request. I see the officials are already nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	Oh, was Mr. Moorlag before? Then he will be given the floor, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week I received a letter from a 15-year-old student who was extremely indignant and emotional about the fact that animals are skinned alive for fur in China. I just get that very well. That e-mail is still on my retina. Two days later it appears that animals here are drowning in hot water screaming. My question to the Minister is as follows: although he is not a matter expert, it is an ethical question. Does he think that's acceptable? Does he agree with me that supervision and enforcement pressure should be greatly increased in order to eliminate this kind of excrement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Futselaar's first question was whether the Minister considered this unacceptable. I said: yes, I find that unacceptable. Mr Moorlag's second question concerns precisely this point, which concerns supervision. What are the good tools that you can use in that supervision to prevent this from happening? One element in this is, for example, camera surveillance, or permanent supervision. The Minister for Agriculture is working on various instruments to strengthen supervision. It also tightened the fines on 1 December last year, precisely in order to be able to tackle the companies that are going in the wrong harder. There too, I think Mr Moorlag and the cabinet are on the same lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	The first Question Time of this Chamber's term of office was in March 2017. The questions were about the images we had seen from a slaughterhouse in Tielt, where pigs were kicked and beaten, and drowned alive in the hot tub. The line was: that does not happen in the Netherlands. The Party for Animals did get the cabinet to bet on camera surveillance. It is happening in the Netherlands, but we have been waiting three years for that surveillance. I would like to hear from the Minister: if it is so difficult to increase the number of enforcers, should the number of animals we hunt through the slaughterhouse every minute not be reduced to ensure that the requirements we impose on animal welfare and public health can really be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	The first part of Mrs Ouwehand's question concerns camera surveillance. I assume that you asked for this immediately in 2017. I have just tried to make it clear that the Minister for Agriculture and the Cabinet also want to implement this camera surveillance in the most efficient and effective way, so that it also has the fastest results for animal welfare, for the sector and for consumers. I have heard a number of elements in the question, including Mr De Groot's question today, concerning hygiene and quality.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I cannot make a sensible statement about this; I do not have the knowledge to do so. I suggest to the House that we discuss this with the Minister of Agriculture shortly, to see if you can get into it. It is clear that what we have now seen is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	I understand that this minister needs to take over Minister Schouten's portfolio and that you can't know everything. But it's not very difficult. If the tire speed is so high that 650 pigs per hour are hunted through, then you just know that you can't control properly. Because of these enormous paces, 7 million chickens and ducks are thrown away, because it goes too fast and their flesh is smeared. What does this cabinet really think is more important? That you can actually maintain animal welfare and the rules you set for it, or that you keep muddying? Because those inspectors aren't there and the paces are too high. When is the government going to intervene and say: what is happening in slaughterhouses must in any case be well controlled, and these paces must be reduced to protect animals, workers and public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	I really can't say a sensible word about the tempo of the band; you have to take that from me. I don't have enough material expertise to judge that. I'm assuming a lot of experts are looking into that. I see, however, that the tight labour market means that job vacancies cannot be filled; this plays a broader role, including in my own portfolio, when it comes to the inspection SZW or the UWV, for example. It is not a money problem or a capacity problem, but there are indeed insufficient people within the supervision, because vacancies cannot be filled. Monitoring must therefore be designed in a different way. That's what I see in the insurance doctor's office. All my colleagues in the cabinet have the same problem, whether it be the police, education or many other sectors. Then you have to reprioritize, with in mind of course: what do we want to achieve with each other, what are the demands that we make of it, what are the goals that we want to achieve and how are we going to shape it in the most efficient way? That's the reality we're all in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you. I understand that you cannot answer all the questions because you are replacing the Minister of Agriculture, but perhaps it would be a good idea to include all the questions you cannot answer in the letter following the commitment to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	There's nodding. I'd be happy to. I hope there's a good tape.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	That's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	Have a good day.
