ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u1	The issue is now the examination of the bill 35473, Amendment of the fiscal state of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment for the year 2020, the third incidental supplementary budget on the employment and economic emergency package 2.0.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing appreciation, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, for the appropriate action of the government, and this Minister in particular, in recent months. He has succeeded and if I look at the Acts of the House of Representatives, also with broad political support. It is also important to note that there is a relationship between the two sides of industry that he has managed to achieve this second package of aid with broad public support. We are grateful to him for that, because it is also very necessary. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is asking us fundamental questions. I don't want to treat them all, but I'll mention a few. Firstly, there is the question of how healthcare is organised and financed. The second question is very topical at the moment, because it deals with the balance between the freedom of government coercion and freedom to live a safe and healthy life. The balance between that positive and that negative freedom is actually the subject that is underlying in all the demonstrations we are seeing at the moment. To put it another way: how right is to grant the maximum freedom to everyone insofar as it allows the same maximum freedom to everyone else, huh? There may also be more talk of Lant in this Chamber. It is also good to reflect on it in this way, because that is actually under the great social debate that is taking place at the moment. More concretely, to the support packages that lie ahead. They run until October 1st, so what? In a very optimistic scenario, too, economic effects are still a long way off, and labour market effects may be reflected in economic effects. GroenLinks has a lot of appreciation for the credo "we are investing in this crisis." Our question is, of course, whether this is widely shared in the cabinet and whether the Minister and the Secretary of State share that. Does it actually mean that we are not going to find the answer to the crisis in cutting back on the public sector or on the municipalities, which are already barely able to fulfil all the tasks that are currently coming to them? Anyway, choices have to be made. Not everything can happen. Then we also need to know very specifically what we are talking about. Then a little trip to the answers we have just received. As far as I can see, you say in those answers that 45% of the NOW package ends up with small and medium-sized enterprises. In the Lower House you spoke about 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises. That'll save half of it. We need to know what we're talking about. Then you can of course say: the First Chamber is half of the Second Chamber, 1 is half of 2 and 75 is half of 150, but this difference is very large and it is very important for us, so please comment on it from you. I myself will highlight three themes, and you will not be surprised if you hear what they are. The first is the position of flexible work. We have known for a long time that the Netherlands is very negative in this respect in relation to the neighbouring countries. The people with flexible jobs are the first to get screwed. The Borstlap Committee says something about the position of flexible work and speaks firmly about it. Our question is when are we really going to proceed with this and also more broadly with the findings of the Borstlap Committee? And please do not say 'we are doing so at the formation table', because that is a bit what is supposed to happen in politics, that everything is always pushed forward six months or a year and then we are going to palate over it for another six months. It is now on the agenda, so please take action. The second is about education. You are now saying'very important, we are allocating EUR 50 million in this support package and thus releasing money trapped in the funds'. I fully agree with you that employers and employees have an important responsibility and that money may sometimes be rolled out of these funds for what it is intended for. Yet on all sides I notice the UWV also says a bit about the 50 million that sounds very distressing. That is why once again the question on which you base your optimism is that it will free up much larger money. The second question relates to this: if this does not happen, will you be sitting on it for a short time and will you then be prepared to get a little more generous? The third theme is sustainability. It goes without saying: we do not want to go back to the old economy, we want to move forward, into the future. At the moment when we as a government put a lot of money into the economy we are happy that this is happening Let us use it as a direct lever to go to the economy of the future. That is not a flagship of GroenLinks, because I think we are broadly in agreement that the economy of the future is a sustainable economy. We have set this out in all kinds of agreements and treaties, and we want to go for that. How do we use the incentives we now give to develop that way? You can see that, for example, in France, very clearly, but we can see that the aid packages are hardly being implemented here. I am referring not only to the support package before us, but also to that of your colleagues Wiebes and Van Nieuwenhuizen. Our question to you is: how do you want to be in the socio-economic triangle or what it is called in the cabinet, the pentagon, the quadrilateral... The troika, I hear. Yeah, that's nice; a nice Russian word too. How do you intend to work in the troika to make a real move towards sustainability? Otherwise we will have to see that we have got back with a lot of money what we already had, even with all the failures of that. I look forward to your answers with great interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mrs Sent on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group commends the Minister, the Secretary of State and the other members of the Cabinet for their efforts to preserve jobs and keep the economy running. It is precisely because of the measures that the cabinet had to take to limit the chances of the coronavirus spreading that jobs were at risk and that the economy was hit. These measures were needed to protect public health, but they had a devastating effect on the economy. A common question then is: why does the government opt for public health, but not for the economy? However, that is a false contradiction, because the economy is not an end in itself. It is a means in the form of income, products and services, just as public health measures are a means. These resources should then be used as optimally as possible for the well-being and well-being of all people here and in the rest of the world, now and in the future. At the same time, the economy can become more involved in any relaxation of measures. In that sense, this crisis is really different from that of 12 years ago. After all, the latter was caused by looming errors within the economic system. There are also similarities, namely that a crisis never comes alone. Twelve years ago, we started a financial crisis. It became an economic crisis and ultimately a euro crisis. Now it begins with a health crisis, which then becomes an economic crisis and perhaps a social crisis, because the vulnerable are hit hard:zzp'ers, the elderly and refugees. That brings me to the legislative proposal before us, which seeks to alleviate the pain of the crisis by means of a number of measures. The aim is to support the PvdA, but my group is questioning a number of means. Mr. Chairman. More than 800,000 flex workers worked in the Netherlands in 2019. If these have suffered a substantial income loss as a result of the corona crisis, they can apply for the Temporary Transition Scheme for Flexible Labour, the TOFA. This is intended as a safety net for people who, because of the corona crisis, have a significant fall in their income, cannot claim WW, assistance or any other social security scheme and need compensation as a contribution to the cost of their living. I am grateful to my partymate in the Lower House for his encouragement to the cabinet to find a solution for this group, but like him I had hoped for more. The scheme is far too restrictive according to student union LSVb. It is good that young people can get support, but three months is too short, says President Lyle Muns. Trade union FNV is mainly concerned about the level of the benefit. For students who made more hours, it is often much less than what they first earned, says Yvette de Vries of the FNV. What are the Minister's plans for this arrangement in response to these concerns about the duration and level of TOFA? According to the Borstlap Committee, the enormous amount of flexwork in the Netherlands is slowing down economic growth. Flexwork is also too cheap and the advantages and disadvantages of flexible work are unfairly distributed. Employers benefit from flex, but flex workers bear risks such as being temporarily out of work. This is why employers should pay more for flex workers through, for example, a flex bonus. Another option is a higher legal minimum wage for flex workers. Furthermore, the Borstlap Committee believes that flex workers should have the same working conditions as permanent employees. Can we expect additional efforts from the Minister in following the recommendations of the Borstlap Committee, as the corona crisis mercilessly exposes the vulnerable position of flex workers? The PvdA wants permanent work to be the norm again, that every worker is protected in the event of bad luck and illness and that all workers are given the opportunity to continue to develop. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch social security system ensures that many people receive income support at least for a very short period of time through a short-term three-month WW. That period is understandable in an overstretched labour market as before the outbreak of corona, but at a time of rising unemployment there are many doubts about this duration. Since the start of the corona crisis, the influx of assistance from people up to 27 years of age has grown by 55% and from 27 to 35 years of age by 58%. For older age groups, the increase was between 19% and 32%. Divosa chairman Erik Dannenberg says: "In a short time you will see that the assistance becomes a kind of first safety net for people, rather than a last safety net." Most anti-poverty agencies in the Netherlands are counting on an increase in the demand for aid due to the corona crisis. The Minister can prevent this by extending the WW for the duration of the company's emergency packages. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the social partners? The Minister has informed the Lower House to consider a form of part-time WW, now that there is a risk of a longer recession. What have been the developments in his thinking since then? Mr. Chairman. If companies receiving aid are not allowed to fire anyone and, as a result, are still bankrupt, the aid is in vain, the cabinet argues. That is why it proposed that the dismissal penalty should be abolished in order to maintain employment. The unions showed furious. Consultation between the social partners and the minister led to the following compromise: the dismissal penalty remains in a new form and trade unions are given more control in companies where large redundancies are taking place. How does the Minister see the impact of this on the number of redundancies? In the short term, unemployment cannot be avoided, but there is still a great unfulfilled demand for different professions. Think of care and education. This combination of rising unemployment and high demand for labour in the public sectors offers opportunities. Moreover, it is advisable for a government to invest in times of crisis, because households and companies are reluctant to do so. The Cabinet reserves €50 million for retraining and career advice. We fear that this is not enough. What is the government going to do if the question goes beyond the available resources? It is precisely this moment that is the perfect time to tackle the shortages in health care and education. That is why I call on the Minister to pay for retraining, grant training and increase salaries in these sectors. In short, make it attractive for the prospective job seeker to make the switch. Is he willing to do that? Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw particular attention to young entrepreneurs under the age of 21. Because of the corona crisis, thousands of young self-employed people have lost their income. This income is also of great importance to them in order to be able to pay the fixed charges. These young self-employed persons up to the age of 21 can already benefit from the safety net scheme for self-employed persons, the Tozo benefit. They receive, if they meet the conditions, only €259.78 per month. Young self-employed persons indicate that they are barely able to pay the fixed charges. Why should young self-employed persons not be entitled to the same higher Tozo benefit applicable to other self-employed persons? After all, from the age of 18 these entrepreneurs are mature and thus also pay the full amount for the health insurance, the rent and the groceries. Unfortunately, an amendment on this subject has not been accepted in the House of Representatives, but is there no appearance of age discrimination here? However, a motion was accepted to pay extra attention to perspective and solutions for young people together with the social partners and to include this in the plans for the autumn recess. Young people are sometimes affected by the corona crisis, especially if they were already in a vulnerable position. Graduated young people are threatened with a bad start in the labour market, with negative consequences for the rest of their careers. How does the Minister intend to implement this motion? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We live in all kinds of ways in a double time, also a time of threats and opportunities. After all, a crisis offers opportunities for rethinking the fluctuating labour market that needs to be addressed, about the assistance that should be a last safety net, about the need to invest in retraining and training, about young people who deserve a good start in the labour market. This is why public authorities must work for an inclusive and sustainable economy. To this end, the PvdA will continue to appeal to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Mr Kox has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Can I begin by saying that I am pleased with the contributions of the Green Left and Labour Party groups and that my speech will be complementary to their speeches? Left-wing cooperation is working; that is something else. Mr. Chairman. If we have to, our Parliament can do a quick job. This bill was submitted by the government to the House of Representatives on 26 May. It was discussed very quickly and approved a month later, on 30 June. Now, only a week later, it is already before us for discussion and decision. It is undoubtedly a matter of haste, with all the shortcomings involved. However, that is better than no work: no work for us in the event that Parliament would have been excluded in our country too, fortunately, but above all no work for all those in our society who are now dependent on the rapid and decisive action of government and parliament to preserve their work and their business. We are talking about approximately 2.5 million employees, 140,000 companies and 400,000 self-employed. Stand on it. My group also welcomes the commitment of the government in general and the Minister and the Secretary of State in particular. The Secretary of State is with us for the last time as Secretary of State, because from next Thursday she will be Minister. Whether that's a progress or a decline, we'd like to hear from her later. In short, the government is asking this Chamber today to authorise it to spend another 15 billion for a period of four months, from June to September, to protect jobs and the economy. Extending the emergency measure to bridge unemployment calls for 13 billion, extending the temporary bridging scheme to independent entrepreneurs calls for about 1.5 billion and a temporary bridging scheme for flexible labour requires another 185 million. Then you're inclined to say, like you're pouring a bucket. But when the land is on fire, buckets must be poured out to prevent greater calamity. It's no different. Mr. Chairman. Whether that bucket really extinguishes and whether more buckets will have to be poured out, no man knows, not even a minister or secretary of state. According to the government, the amounts are a gross estimate because of the corona crisis and are surrounded by great uncertainties. But on the basis of what is now known and what is expected for the near future, the government is nevertheless asking us to say yes to this huge package. As with the first emergency package, the House of Representatives has already done so unanimously. That's an achievement. This Chamber also voted unanimously in favour of the government's first package. I assume the government hopes that we will do the same with this second package. Mr. Chairman. The government attaches great importance to broad support in parliament, because because of the corona crisis it cannot rule on the basis of the government agreement concluded between four parties, but must rule on the basis of: do what is necessary. Given the enormous crisis in which we have ended, my group thinks it wise that the government should do what is necessary to get through this crisis as well and as badly as possible, while maintaining as many jobs as possible and with as little damage to the economy as possible. Here and in the House of Representatives, therefore, the government has so far been able to count on the support of our group in this approach. Other groups which do not belong to the coalition of the government are similar, and we consider that to be sensible. But, Mr President, for what, hear what, my group thinks. If, in view of the current crisis, the government demands almost unlimited confidence from all parties in the parliament, then that parliament may also ask the government for confidence, even in terms of participation from the parliament of the parties that may be counted as the opposition without the crisis. In these special times, in my opinion, less than usual should be thought of in terms of coalition and opposition and more in terms of 'as broad a consensus as possible'. This means, for all parties, government and parliament, and for the parties themselves, giving and taking in order to achieve and remain as broad a basis as possible. Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, that is where the problem lies. While all the political groups on the other side have said yes to the general government's proposal to release a small 15 billion for another four months, so that the government can do what is necessary, the government says no to a limited number of improvement proposals from the parties formally opposed. That is unbalanced policy, we can review in this Chamber. In order to be able to continue to do what is necessary in the future on the basis of broad support, it is necessary for the government to respond as much as possible to the non-coalition parties in their proposals. Listening to the great possible minority in the Lower House and a majority in the Upper House is not a sign of weakness, but of democratic strength. That is why I urge the government, with a positive attitude, to reconsider the following proposals from the opposition, previously made in the House of Representatives, and to come back to them in its term. It's four proposals. One: non-payment of bonuses and dividends by companies in 2020 and 2021 as a condition for entitlement to benefits under the NOW. Two: self-employed persons between 18 and 21 years of age who have just been recalled also declare fully entitled Tozo. Three: delete the partner test in Tozo 2. Four: don't use a capital test for AOW entitled self-employed persons with an income below the social minimum. I hope that the government will still respond positively to these four proposals to broaden the support for the overall package. That would be a huge gain from this debate. The fact that the House of Representatives unanimously approved a proposal by my party colleague Jasper van Dijk to ask the government for an attack plan against poverty, in view of the combination of the already poor forecasts of the various planning agencies, which takes into account an increase in poverty of 25%, and the negative effects of the corona crisis, which the Nibud recently warned against. May I ask the Secretary of State to take due account of what was recently agreed between her and this Chamber in this Chamber when we were discussing various child poverty reduction issues! President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr. Chairman. I have one last point on which I would also like to hear a response from the Minister or the Secretary of State. We have discussed the issue of how best to deal with this crisis on a regular basis in recent times. This includes the concepts of "generic measure" and "customisation." For our group, there is a clear need for a combination of both. Generic measures work quickly for many people, but because not all cases are the same and not always in the specific case such a generic measure is effective enough, tailor-made measures are needed and not always available. Let me give you an example from practice. The Trappists of the Abbey of Our Lady of Kingshoeven in Tilburg, according to their own words, fill their lives with prayer and work. In doing so, the monks show a great social commitment. They pray a lot, but they also do a lot of things: from producing and selling the famous La Trappebier, to making and selling handmade bread, cheese, jam and chocolate. In addition, in the area of the abbey there is a large nursery in which dozens of people with a great distance from the labour market do simple work. The economic activities of the abbey have a circular character: it is not produced for profit, but for production as such, and they spend the result on one's own livelihood, as Benedict wants, and on social goals. The abbey is a quiet oasis for many to relax; some in the guesthouse, many on the beautiful terraces of the abbey. With all this, the abbey is self-absorbed and has become a very popular example of a different kind of economic business. You guessed: everything in and around the abbey also fell silent when Corona made himself speak. Everything was locked and the monks themselves had to deal with the virus. One of the monks died unfortunately and some others became ill but survived, although their problems are far from over. On top of that is the virtually complete loss of revenue, against which there is hardly any support from the government. Because of the somewhat strange economic activity, the abbey seems to fall outside most generic regulations. Recently, I had a nice conversation with Mr Rombouts of the CDA about this with the prior of the abbey, who showed us how much money, tons, the abbey has been missing in recent times, and that, despite all prayer and work, dark times are threatening to come. Well, for this and other special cases, in addition to generic help by the government, it seems to me that customization is also in place. But the question is: to whom can the monks of Koningshoeve go? Who can find similar strange, but extremely interesting businesses? Can I hear from the Minister or the Secretary of State whether the rule which the cabinet likes to put forward in other debates, that customization is often necessary, can be offered here too? I like to hear it, so I can let the monks hear about it. But it is an example, in my opinion, of a larger whole. Mr. Chairman. I hope that today the government will make every effort to find the widest possible support in this Chamber to do what is necessary. I await the reaction of the government with great interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. The example of the abbey of course appeals to me as Catholic and Brabander. But I have a question about the point before that. You mentioned the self-employed account, one of which did not submit a partner test. I could also imagine, especially from the SP, that, when you are self-employed, you need some less assignments and support, but also a well-earning partner, so the income there is stable, is certainly reasonable as the government, because also the government has to make choices in how to use the general means of: if there is a stable second income in that household, then it is useful and necessary to give extra support to that self-employed person; whereas if that second person is not there, it is important to support that self-employed person. That is a very reasonable principle, and there is a very social principle behind it, isn't there? Could you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you for the question. Well, the SP isn't really that we're always looking for a way to equal everyone at the lowest possible level. We are actually thinking the other way around: how can we get everyone right at the highest possible level? That can't be the supreme level, because then we don't have enough. But "social" is not "all nothing" to us. That's what I learned at home: no one gets rich, that's not good. Secondly, you know that the first arrangement did not include that partner test. In your view, that was an unreasonable arrangement, but I did not see the D66 group voting against it in both houses, because it is a special arrangement in special times. If it was a special arrangement at Tozo 1, why do we say at Tozo 2: yes, but you have someone else who deserves to walk? And of course it is unreasonable, but it is also unreasonable, for example, to compare it with people in welfare. I would be very much in favour of saying: don't do the partner test in welfare at this time. Then all the people in welfare are getting a little better. I have no problem with that, because as you say, socialists like to see everyone go up a little bit, not down all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Essers from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is impressed by the way in which the cabinet tries to mitigate the social and economic consequences of the coronatsunami with the two emergency packages of jobs and the economy. This admiration applies both to the size of these packages and to the speed with which they are and are put into operation. Unfortunately, they will not be able to save all affected persons, businesses and institutions, but the damage would have been incalculable if they had not been there or had been deployed too late. The speed with which the virus hit the Netherlands has, of course, not been ignored by this Chamber either. On 10 March we spoke with Minister Koolmees and Minister Hoekstra about the pension agreement. As fish in a bowl, we sat together as committees of finance and SZW with the directors and their assistants in Commission Room 2. Just a week later, the whole country was immersed in a lockdown and a half-meter society. It is a blessing that we are all here today in such good health again, even if it is in the Knight's Room. Fortunately, the pension agreement seems to be working out. Due to the speed of action offered, it was inevitable that various bottlenecks emerged in the implementation of the emergency package from entrepreneurs and institutions that threatened to get between shore and ship. Once again, the flexible and energetic way in which the relevant directors and executive bodies responded to this challenge forced admiration. There were several categories of entrepreneurs who threatened to fall outside the package, such as payrollers, seasonal workers, flex workers, start-ups, industrial partnerships and, as we know, after Mr Kox's speech, monks too. Payrollers have been advised to make agreements between themselves. My question to the rulers is whether this has proved effective in practice. For other categories, efforts have been made to find tailor-made solutions. Furthermore, bottlenecks arise as a result of the combination of some rules, such as the NOW and the Fixed Charges for SMEs. My question to the rulers is: are new developments to be reported or expected on all these issues? Recently, this series of institutions and companies joined companies that work within a group on a cost-plus basis and therefore have difficulty demonstrating a relevant decline in turnover. Our question to the directors is to what extent a solution can be found for these companies, for example by allowing an adjustment of the transfer pricing rules applied by these companies. As a result, losses actually suffered as a result of the loss of production resulting from the corona crisis can be allocated to the companies concerned. Another border category, also in a literal sense, are entrepreneurs in the border regions with Germany and Belgium. Following the Van der Molen/Palland motion in the House of Representatives, on 1 July a very recent paper from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment was published. This clearly shows that the corona arrangements for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany have not been harmonised. Under the principle of territoriality, EU Member States are themselves responsible for the conditions under which the residents of those Member States are entitled to benefit. As a result, social assistance benefits vary from one Member State to another. Entrepreneurs who live in the Netherlands and have a business abroad can, according to the note in the Netherlands, use the Temporary Bridging Scheme for self-employed entrepreneurs (Tozo), which allows entrepreneurs who meet the criteria to benefit from a living allowance and/or a loan for working capital. However, if an entrepreneur lives in Belgium or Germany and has a business in the Netherlands, it is still entirely doubtful whether this entrepreneur is eligible for a similar scheme in these countries. In Belgium, recourse can only be made to the crisis measure called "bridging right for self-employed persons" if the entrepreneur pays contributions in Belgium, which is not normally the case for entrepreneurs with a business in the Netherlands. There is only one application for ordinary assistance. It is estimated that around 2,500 entrepreneurs living in Belgium and having a business in the Netherlands will be affected. Entrepreneurs living in Germany with a company in the Netherlands may, however, claim a benefit scheme, which is relaxed by the corona crisis, Arbeitslosengeld category II. However, they are not eligible if they do not have a long-term right of residence because they live in Germany for less than five years and have a business in the Netherlands. This concerns about 1,000 entrepreneurs, according to the note. However, according to the note, these entrepreneurs living in Belgium or Germany with a company in the Netherlands may qualify for aid measures in the Netherlands aimed at the company, such as the loan facility, the Meeting of Entrepreneurs Affected Sectors, the successor to that scheme, the Meeting of Fixed Charges SMEs, the remuneration for reduced working hours (NOW) and the tax deferral scheme. All this means that for entrepreneurs living in Belgium or Germany with a company in the Netherlands there is equality with entrepreneurs living in the Netherlands with a company in the Netherlands, but not always with their neighbours abroad, who can get a living allowance. That is regrettable, but the question is whether this can be blamed on the Netherlands or on the choices made in Belgium and Germany. Is the Tozo scheme comparable in all respects to a welfare allowance, or are there any differences, such as the lack of a capital test, which could lead the Netherlands to a different attitude? Whatever the case, the citizens living within the EU who are affected by it, these different approaches do not help. So I'd like a response from the government. Is the Minister or Secretary of State prepared to raise this issue at EU level? I understand that, as a result of the corona crisis, cross-border workers working at home who are workers have already found a satisfactory solution. On the other hand, you can also ask whether it is right that businesses living in the border region should be able to make double use of the facility. It is not good if they are completely excluded, but are they supposed to be able to use the schemes twice? I would also like to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Essers...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u13	I see it, Mr. Chairman. I'll finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u14	Unfortunately, the speaking time you have requested is over, so would you like to conclude?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u15	I will conclude by asking for attention to be paid to the fight against fraud and misuse. That is, of course, very important. The emergency measures have been introduced quickly, so there is a high risk of fraud and misuse. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that due to the complexity and speed with which these arrangements have been introduced, the arrangements have not always been clear. Bearing in mind the child care allowance affair, the government should not go overboard in tackling alleged fraud without taking proportionality and reasonableness as the starting point. My final question is therefore: how does the government intend to achieve both objectives, i.e. to deal adequately with abuse and fraud on the one hand and to apply reasonableness and proportionality on the other? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Essers. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. In view of Mr Kox's speech, I shall continue to hold similar hoods today when it comes to speaking time as equal monks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. As a Catholic and Brabander, I start praying and working. Mass financial support packages by the Minister for Social Affairs, Economic Affairs and Finance seek to protect people's activity, jobs and income security. This unprecedented and so far successful financial support can have a more lasting effect if we are to help people from work to work as offensively as we are now, and prevent people from becoming unemployed massively and for a long time. Despite this emergency aid, companies will have to respond to changed market conditions at the current stage of the corona crisis and people will also lose their jobs. The UWV may expect a doubling of unemployment to 700,000 in 2021. In order to avoid mass and long-term unemployment and high benefits as much as possible, people still need to be supported from their current job to find work in promising sectors of the economy. This requires a strong delta plan of work, with financial input from government and industry. The Labour Foundation, the STAR, recently stated in a statement following the second emergency package the need for facilities and measures for short-term adjustments within and outside firms in the field of training, relocation, part-time arrangements in the NOW or WW and so-called placement schemes. The Labour Foundation advocates a wide range of re-training and retraining facilities. Making use of the opportunities of training is essential for maintaining work both inside and outside the enterprise. These resources are not available everywhere and for all workers. The Foundation therefore calls for sectoral collective bargaining parties to take a number of measures. The Minister has made 50 million available for online training under NL Leert Door. In this declaration, STAR calls on the Minister to opt for a higher level of ambition and to provide resources to enable workers and the unemployed to receive a comprehensive supply of training. With a broad use of intersectoral training resources, transitions from work without perspective to work with perspective are better and easier. This can also be done using NL Werkt Door. STAR asks the Cabinet to mitigate the negative effects of the recession and to accelerate the recovery with an investment offensive and continued support for the necessary adaptation processes after this emergency phase. My Second Chamber colleague, Mr Van Brenn, has tabled an amendment which can be taken as an encouragement and encouragement to the cabinet on a path that has already been taken. The aim is to step up efforts for retraining, retraining and further training, job placement and intensive personal assistance with all social partners. The amendment would limit the use of benefits and would further reduce the substantial cuts in re-integration budgets in recent years. These budgets have been cut by more than 1 billion for municipalities in the last ten years alone. The amendment seeks to provide occasional means to strongly support work on the part of the government and the delta plan up to an amount of President-in-Office, not to be alarmed at this time of 500 million. I quote Mr Van Brenk: "From the previous crisis, we have learned that speed is needed to use this kind of accompanying policy systematically and on a large scale. It is much more difficult to get back to work if people get into a long-term benefit situation. The current corona crisis is leading to major shifts in supply and demand in the labour market. These shifts are inevitably also accompanied by (increasing) risk of unemployment, as we can already see. With a large and coherent Delta Plan Work, people can be guided to employment opportunities and growth sectors of the economy. This will also speed up economic recovery after corona and reduce the burden of benefits." The Minister sent a letter to the House of Representatives on 2 July to the House of Representatives on the main issues of NL Leert Door, which contains an impact on the incentive premium of 50 million for retraining and further training. This gesture from the cabinet is, of course, very welcome, but it is far too little. The 50PLUS Group calls this amount "a pistol" while we want to use "a bazooka." In the Lower House, the Minister referred to the Van Brenk amendment as 'the superlative staircase', we call it 'the only correct staircase, the kick-off for retraining and further training'. We want to learn from the previous crisis. The sector plans of the then cabinet, including 600 million, started relatively late. Now we want to put in place in time a massive approach to employment and training so that people can be guided and retrained from work to work. From the letter from the STAR I also see that sense of urgency, but there are no amounts mentioned. We would like to mention them, with man and horse. We are thinking of a substantial additional amount. Mr. Chairman. My group asks the Minister to respond in detail to the request, which we feel is justified, otherwise we are considering a second-term motion. I await the answer with particular interest. Maybe I can say for this minister and this Chamber that I have always referred to the Troika on the other side: Finance, The Netherlands Bank and the Central Planning Office. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Van Pareren on behalf of the Group of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. I will begin by apologizing for having signed up at such a late hour to say a few words here. I didn't notice from now on, and thank you for the explanatory statement that such an input at the last moment is so messed up. I will therefore try to keep it brief and forceful. "Government is forethought," I'd like to call it. That's a well-known cry and not something new. We are, of course, talking about restoring something that has come and which cannot be prevented. The work being done is very good. It started a little late. You may know that our party was pretty early this year, over six months ago, saying, guys, shouldn't we talk about it? But at some point, gas has also started. Our compliments for that, too, because it is very important that those people who need it so badly should be helped. There are a lot of them at this time. Thank you also for the answers, and the care in that regard, to the many questions that have been asked in committee. We have taken good note of this and have been able to get a lot of clarity. I was pleased to hear Mr Kox say here, and I would like to translate it into my words: "Connecting is very important in these times and that is how he experiences it. We also experience that in these times we are more together than we always kiss about little things and bisses. Yet it is true that we see that society is persistent. Of course, that 1.5 meters is very important. The President reminds us of this every time in these meetings, but we see that the practice in this case is unbearable. I myself sometimes call it a "half-decimetre society." I've seen a cloud break in Scheveningen. Then it became a "half-centimetre society," because everyone wanted to hide in the limited space that was available for that purpose. Happy! Happy! This has not resulted in any new or hardly any new corona cases. The appeal to the cabinet that we are making is to look more closely at the sensible measures in connection with social support. Of course there is great fear and uncertainty among many Dutch people, but that great fear and uncertainty is now mainly about the welfare of their family, their job, their company, their employees and so on. But the diversity of people is also very large. A lot of things have been destroyed by a lot of people. You can hardly see it, but it lives with people. We'd like to ask you a few questions. The first is: are all financially and economically affected people in sight at the Ministry of Social Affairs? I heard Mr Essers say something about people on the outskirts of the Netherlands, who live elsewhere and work here. That way, I can come up with more groups. Therefore the general question: are the forgotten groups sufficient on the retina? Which ones, if any, haven't? Where would you find the groups that have been forgotten and what could you do for them? It turns out that this whole crisis has a huge impact on many people who already have a weak place in our society. I call the young disabled, the disabled, the elderly who are difficult to get a job and have a hard job and many people with diversity backgrounds. A background that doesn't always help them to get to work quickly, while many of them want so badly, just like in society as a whole. How do they notice in their daily lives that the Ministry, and the whole government, is paying full attention to this? It has already been predicted and mentioned today: the worst is yet to come. That's gloomy, and that's not good. Governing is forward-looking. What does the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment expect in its field what is the trend and what is to be expected? Is that being dealt with already? Training and retraining have already been mentioned by many here today at this meeting. I can say a few things about that; I hope to have found a few things that have not yet been mentioned. Private education is celebrated. Many billions have already been spent on it, as has been noted. That is, of course, a good thing, but we in the Forum for Democracy can just imagine that these companies are going to cut back on that. There will be pressure on the organisation and then our question is: how does the government, the Ministry, in this context, with the 1.5%, the 15 million, intend to contribute to this important development of people? As requested, is a little bit more irrelevant? Can the government also boast of past experience and results? Education isn't new. What can be learned from that? It is particularly important to see whether we are giving the right education and whether it is not training for the future. I also realize that every step of the cabinet has a great effect on our society, on the happiness of the people. It is therefore also important that ministries work seamlessly to help citizens as effectively as possible. Coordination is essential. Take care of the most important things first and take a step back with what can wait. That is what we are calling for. As an example, support farmers to do their jobs and to survive in these corona times and do not burden them on the other hand with great pressure on their business operations and their lives through all kinds of climate measures. That goes for every Dutchman, of course. I gave the farmers as an example and I want to end with this. I also see that it is beautiful within the time, for which thanks, Mr President. I'd like to leave it at that in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Finally, Mr Ester has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr President. With this third incidental budget, the Cabinet frees many billions to extend the Emergency Jobs and Economy package until September. It concerns the NOW scheme and the Tozo scheme. With this extension, we will also give employers, employees andzzp'ers a little air in the coming months in these harsh socio-economic conditions. My group is pleased that the Netherlands has built such buffers in recent years that we can afford this billion-dollar injection. The Joseph economy, as it turns out, is not a toy of economical economists of Calvinist cut. I like to extend it, Mr. Kox, to the economists of Catholic house, but an effective strategy to arm us against bad times. The creation of solid buffers is not a financial doctrine of economic pussies, but a testament to reality and the learning of previous crises. Does the Minister recognize himself in this determination? Over the last few months, the cabinet has launched emergency support for companies and their employees, with a huge bazooka of tens of billions, for job and income preservation, including ofzzp'ers. My group fully supports this. It was, and is, a matter of acute emergency situations requiring decisive action. The cabinet has responded alertly and well. Our compliments on that. But there comes a time when we need to move from generic support measures to individual customization. Now we still have massive wage support, but we cannot prolong it indefinitely. The pockets of the cabinet are deep, but not unlimited. Emergency aid is intended for the short term, but is unsustainable on this scale in the longer term. The Christian Union Group would like to ask the Minister when this transition to dismantling and tailor-made work will come into sight and what conditions he believes should guide this process. What is his view on this issue? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group calls for a two-track policy in which general, relatively undifferentiated temporary support measures are accompanied by structural reform of our labour market. The Minister acts on many signs, and my group needs an explanation of the coherence of the employment and economic support package in relation to its reform plans. We are thinking in particular of the opinion of the Borstlap Committee, but also of the recent pension agreement. I would also like to congratulate you on achieving this. And earlier there were the Labour Market Act in balance and the plans aroundzzp'ers. How does the short-term approach, the unfocused aid approach, relate to the plans for a structural reset of our labour market, for sustainable recovery? As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, this labour market must be inclusive, do justice to vulnerable groups of workers and job seekers, be inspired by the Rhineland-Palatinate's social model, and promote sustainable participation in the labour market. How does the Minister see this double indication of occasional emergency aid and structural reform? What's his agenda and march route? I would like to give a few thoughts on the need and direction of this structural reset. The Christian Union Group is deeply concerned about the labour market position of vulnerable groups of workers. They will be the first victims of this profound crisis. They are at increased risk of losing their jobs; their job opportunities are at risk. The smoothing of the economy and the labour market weakens the position of flex workers, of young people, of less qualified workers, of disabled people, of people with less job opportunities, of Wajangers, precisely at a time when all kinds of protection structures are being put to the test. Within the polder for groups of vulnerable jobseekers, such as those with disabilities, we have made multiannual agreements on the number of new jobs to be created. These agreements are under severe pressure due to the corona crisis. The worst must be feared. The previous crisis also affected people with disabilities. The four umbrella organisations that are united in the Together Working for Work network have made a huge effort. It is still for a moment the policy of the Secretary of State and I am therefore happy to address her now. Can it indicate how it is assessing the current situation and whether it is considering tightening up the quota policy for the labour restricted group, not only in the market sector but also in the still lagging public sector, the public sector? How do we prevent further marginalisation of this group? How do we prevent large groups of people with disabilities from entering the reserve bank? What does an inclusive labour market actually mean in this unprecedented crisis? My group appreciates a brief reflection on these fundamental questions. Mr. Chairman. The best protection of workers from a crisis is to have core competences and professional skills in order. A work force that is manoeuvrable and resilient is better equipped to survive a crisis and to cope with redundancies in the labour market. The focus on modern labour market policies is a labour force trained in the right labour market skills, which has relevant work experience and is prepared for training. In short, a labour force that is resilient. This means that we can guide job seekers and workers, lead from shrinking to growth sectors and from surplus to deficit sectors. We must ensure that the development of jobseekers and school leavers, as well as of people with jobs, does not stop in the crisis. Permanent development is the creed of active labour market policies and "sustainable labour market participation" is the key term here. This applies to all sections of the labour market, from high to low and from low to high. And for young people, learning-work combinations should maintain their link to the labour market during the crisis and avoid slipping. The title of the bill speaks of an emergency package of jobs and an economy 2.0. The Christian Union Group underlines the progress towards a two-track policy. Our analysis indicates that the emergency package is still too much 1.0 and too little 2.0. We call for this structural component of the dual-track policy to be brought more forward. The 50 million people have already passed a few times, which has now been added to online training and development, but is very reluctant to meet the need for comprehensive policies on sustainable employability and associated individual learning budgets, especially in terms of training provision that also extends tozzp'ers. This amount, Mr President, is not going to make a difference. The House of Representatives also pointed this out. Moreover, the persistence of the 5% discount fine is not impressive. Is it not possible, in consultation with the polder, to speed up the opening of available R&D funds to make a few firm steps in this dossier? Does the Minister see any chance of that? Could the ESC perhaps play an advisory and mediation role here? Mr. Chairman. This is not the time to ask for extra money. My group understands that. Is the Minister prepared, in the run-up to Prinsjesdag, to give an extra boost and perhaps a recognizable place in his labour market policy 2.0? Or maybe I should say "3.0." Can he promise that to my group? Sustainable employment participation, a resilient workforce and the competences and skills associated with it are ultimately the best means of combating a labour market crisis. This applies to employees, but so doeszzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u22	I'd like you to finish your story. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. We need to tackle this vigorously and offensively, so that, with that hope, the Netherlands really comes out of the crisis stronger this time and is better prepared for another emergency. The Christian Union Group wishes both rulers every success in these demanding and confusing times and we look forward to the answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you. Mr Van Pareren then for a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u25	It's a very short question, Mr President. It was a very exciting and nice speech. You also started out very nicely by indicating that it is good that we have saved money, something like economy with patience. Does that mean, now that we've saved so much, that according to your party, we can deal with the whole crisis by financing it with a closed stock exchange?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u26	I don't know exactly how that's gonna go. I am only pleased that we have built buffers so that we can finance those emergency packages. It's a huge amount of money. You pointed that out yourself. We have that money now, I don't want to say "on the shelf," but there are opportunities to fund it properly. But that can only be limited; I said that. You can do that once, you can do that twice. That's what we're talking about right now. But three and four times, that's gonna be really hard. Then we must, and that was at the heart of my speech, really bring forward that structural component in order to strengthen our economy and our labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u28	You didn't mention the 50 million in writing. Are you prepared to ask the Cabinet for more money now, not just in the autumn, because the whole issue of retraining and retraining is so urgent that 50 million is of course far too little?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u29	50 million is not enough in itself, but there is also a great deal of policy about it. The rulers will also say what they have in the policy book to achieve that sustainable employability. So I was thinking in my childish innocence, you know what I'm doing? I am asking not only for extra money in advance of Princess Day, but also for more policy. The two rulers seem to me to be man and man and woman enough to give a very good answer. But the point is that the 50 million, if you cut it all the way to what we're talking about right now, is very low. That was, I believe, the word I used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u30	We all know that a lot of young people will lose their jobs in sectors that are unopposed in the near future. They will not be able to find work in other sectors either, because they are not shy of work either, unfortunately. For them, a lot of education and training is now very important. Every month we lose now will mean that in September, when the House of Representatives evaluates Princess Day, we will have to say "we lost three months; there are many more young people who have become unemployed and that education has not come off the ground." There's got to be a big blow right now, or it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u31	I understand very well what you're saying. This training is, moreover, a longer-term perspective. It's not like if you send a younger person to a course for two weeks now, it's over. I would like to make that point absolutely. It is a structural, multi-annual, substantial effort to improve the sustainable employability of young people as well, which I also discussed in the Committee on Youth, Culture, Education, the Media and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-3.u33	We shall resume this debate later this afternoon. I shall now suspend for a moment so that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy can take his position.
