ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u1	At present the issue is the examination of the bill 35476, the Temporary Law suspending rules on periodic penalty payments and the appeal in the event of a failure to decide on an asylum application in due time, the Temporary Law suspending periodic penalty payments IND. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My first meeting with a fugitive was over 40 years ago. They were Afghan refugees who fled to Iran after the invasion of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan. As a young girl who had just experienced a revolution and the fall of a dictatorship, the distress of those refugees was beyond comprehension. Millions of Afghans first sought shelter in the neighbouring countries of Iran and Pakistan and some later in Europe. In 2015 on the island of Lesbos I again met Afghans on the run as responsible for a Dutch aid organisation. They were the children of the Afghan refugees who fled to Iran in the early 1980s. Now they had crossed the Mediterranean with their children in shady boats, in search of safety and protection. Is it surprising that the third or fourth generation of Afghans is on the run? No. By simply following the news about the situation in Afghanistan and Iran, you understand why people feel compelled to leave to seek protection elsewhere. As long as refugees exist, there is also shelter in the region. Neighboring countries catch large numbers of refugees in a crisis. This has been happening since time immemorial and started long before Dutch politicians and policy makers discovered the reception in the region as a silver bullet for the solution for refugees. The Global Trends report of 2020 published by UNHCR speaks of a historically high number of refugees: almost 80 million refugees and displaced persons worldwide at the end of last year. 1% of the world's population is forced to flee because of war, occupation and oppression, and the number of refugees is rising, all because of the consequences of climate change and hunger, leaving people's homes and shelters and seeking protection elsewhere. 73% of these people remain in neighbouring countries and 85% of the total, i.e. 68 million refugees and displaced persons, remains in developing countries. In addition to the growing number of refugees, there is also another trend, which Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, highlighted when presenting the report. I'm quoting him. "Forced displacement nowadays is not only fixed more widespread but is simply no longer a short-term and temporal phenomenon." This is the context in which we are dealing with the legislative proposal before us. A very small proportion of the 80 million people come to Europe and an even smaller proportion to the Netherlands. According to the data provided by the IND, the total inflow of asylum, the total number of first and repeated asylum applications of asylum seekers and post-travelers, amounted to 29,435. This is a decrease compared to the previous three years. By comparison, the total asylum influx in 2018, 2017 and 2016 was 30,380, 31,327 and 31,600 respectively. Apart from the peak year 2015 by about 59.000, you can speak of a declining number of total asylum applications. Then why does the Secretary of State speak of a slight increase? Nevertheless, the IND fails structurally to take decisions on asylum applications within the legal deadlines, although they are already quite broad. Article 42 (1) of the Aliens Act 2000 sets a period of six months for an application. In addition, paragraph 4 of the same article, which may extend this period for a number of reasons by no less than nine months. Next, Article 43 (1) states that if there were uncertainty about the situation in the country of origin for a short period of time, the decision-making period for a fixed-term residence permit may be extended by a maximum of 21 months. And yet the IND will not be able to decide in good time. An asylum seeker has often experienced a long and sometimes very traumatic journey on arrival in the Netherlands. The people who arrive here have only one wish: protection. They want to build their lives here as soon as possible and leave the repression, violence and uncertainty behind them. They want nothing more than a quick decision on their asylum application. A quick decision is also crucial for people whose application is not accepted. Nothing gnaws at their trust, their hope and their health more than the uncertainty, the endless waiting and doing nothing in the asylum-seekers' centres. In the book How I got talent for life, Rodaan al Galidi, a refugee from Iraq who stayed in an azc for nine years, describes this period as follows: "Here I am. I wander around in a building with open doors and wait for an official, somewhere, until he lets my life begin." The structural inability to respect the decision-making deadlines has been put on the political agenda by the Secretary of State, as the costs of reimbursement of periodic penalty payments have increased due to the lack of timely decision by the IND. This makes the costs of incompetence and mismanagement of the government visible in euros. According to the replies in the note following the report, the cost of compensating periodic penalty payments in 2015 was €86,000. This amount has systematically grown in the following years, from €293,000 in 2016 to €750,000 in 2017, to 1.5 million in 2018 and to 6.6 million in 2019. In any normal organization with a somewhat functioning administration, this development would have given rise to action for a long time. The government is now pretending to have been robbed by the high costs. She speaks of unusual times that require unusual measures. With no mention of why this development has been seen for so long and no action has been taken. Why didn't the alarm bells go off in 2018, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The report of the Significant Public Bureau in February this year, the oral consultation with this Secretary of State on 2 June and the briefing by the Significant Bureau on 30 June show a staggering picture of the direction and management of the IND. I quote the Secretary of State from the oral consultation, in which she takes over the analysis of the Significant office: "There is no direction and no planning at the IND." In addition, the short-sighted decision of the rapid abolition of the capacity of the IND in 2017 and the short-term financing system of the IND will be taken. Only one conclusion can be drawn here: mismanagement and political failure across the board. And then there is only one appropriate approach, namely to put things in order as quickly as possible. This failure becomes more painful when you consider that the problem of the long lead times at the IND has been going on for years. A short search provides numerous reports from among others the General Court and the National Ombudsman. They constantly paint the same picture: there is insufficient trained staff, no information and no guidance, all since the end of the last century. The Secretary of State has taken a number of operational measures to eliminate delays until the end of this year and to remain within the decision-makers since 1 April of this year in the new applications submitted. However, we have not yet seen the beginning of an approach which is structuralally addressing the mismanagement and underperformance of the IND. When does this approach come, my question is to the Secretary of State. While we are waiting for the structural approach, this bill is being tabled. In response to our questions, the Secretary of State acknowledges that there is a right to a timely decision on an application. The government fails to guarantee that right and now chooses to abolish the incentives for improvement. After all, periodic penalty payments are intended as an incentive which also provides some remedy for failure. This attitude of the government is more than reprehensible. In addition, how does it fit into a rule of law to recognise that the IND has been failing for years and, at the same time, to exclude the path to the administrative judge for an asylum seeker for at least one year altogether? The Council of State and the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs are both very critical of this. The Secretary of State is ignoring this. Mr. Chairman. For their whole future, asylum seekers depend on that one decision of the Dutch government. For GroenLinks, therefore, the question is how to ensure that the legal decision-making period is passed through the IND the hardest. Even if we could agree with the Council of State that a temporary exception to periodic penalty payments is fair because of the high costs, it is still incomprehensible why the Secretary of State designed the suspension of periodic penalty payments in this way. This legislative proposal goes far beyond a temporary suspension of periodic penalty payments. This legislative proposal paves the way for the definitive abolition of periodic penalty payments under the Foreigner's Act 2000, much wider than asylum alone. It is therefore by no means a temporary proposal. The Secretary of State writes in response to our questions that an expiry date is not desirable. There is talk of an alternative incentive for the penalty payment scheme in the Foreigner's Act, but not in concrete terms. Agreeing to abolish a right for a specific group of people in the Netherlands in exchange for a vague, undefined alternative cannot testify to proper legislation. In 2006 the possibility of excluding the Foreigner's Act from the Penalty and Appeal Act was discussed in detail when deciding not to take a timely decision. At that time, an amendment by the VVD to regulate this was rejected by the House of Representatives. The then Minister of Justice, Mr Donner of the CDA, I believe that the CDA's colleagues are not present here. I quote from the Acts. "If deadlines are included in the Aliens Act, what is the reason to make an exception in that law to the penalty payment mechanism? If this is a valid argument which does not relate to the fact that one is a foreigner, it will be necessary to examine the rules for which this valid argument is even more valid, because the same exception will have to be made for it." Mr. Chairman. This is the very essence of our reasoning. I have heard no valid argument from this Secretary of State why the Foreigners Act 2000 should be excluded. Its argument is that periodic penalty payments are not effective with the IND. Can the government demonstrate that periodic penalty payments are effective, for example, with the CBR, UWV or NVWA? In other words, is the IND the only administrative body where periodic penalty payments are not effective? How was that assessed by the Secretary of State? What do you mean, periodic penalty payments have not been effective with the IND? The Secretary of State has finally taken action because of periodic penalty payments. The reasoning that the exclusion of the 2000 Refugee Act from the operation of periodic penalty payments does not exclude certain people, but rather certain procedures, is also very thin. Then Minister Pechtold of D66 for Administrative Renewal responded as follows: "In practice, this leads"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, the vast majority of people who invoke the Alien Law are strangers." Why does the Secretary of State consider that these arguments no longer apply? The proposed final legislative proposal should be without doubt as to the compatibility of the definitive abolition of periodic penalty payments with the Constitution................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I ask the Secretary of State for a commitment that she asks the College of Human Rights for an opinion on the compatibility of the new law with the scope as set out in Article 4 (2) of this bill, with Article 1 of the Constitution and the ECHR. At least for a year, this bill also abolishes the right of asylum seekers to go to the administrative court to enforce a timely decision. The government writes in the note following this morning's report that "it is well aware of the far-reaching nature of the step that cannot be contested by an administrative judge against the failure of the IND to take a decision in time." This is indeed reprehensible under the rule of law. I sincerely wonder what it would bring about in Dutch society if the government made a similar proposal for Dutch citizens. There would be unrest rightfully. What does the Secretary of State call it when this happens for foreigners, with arguments such as: too much workload at the IND? In ordinary people's language, it's called "state discrimination." I ask the Secretary of State how an individual citizen or a collective of citizens can check whether this law is in conformity with the ECHR. Is it possible, for example, to apply for an explanation of rights in civil courts? This law is without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the court under Article 611a of the Civil Procedure Code to link a penalty payment to an award. The Secretary of State's argument that the judge should be reluctant to do so, since it already appears that periodic penalty payments do not work, can also be reversed: precisely because the periodic penalty payments are not being forfeited by administrative law, they can be a very adequate means of civil law. The Secretary of State is going to sit on the judge's seat with her interpretation of what the civil judge might do. My question is what other means of coercion the asylum seeker has at his service in order to strengthen the allocation of any civil action that sees it as a timely decision. Given the developments described in UNHCR's Global Trends report and the expectation that many refugees will not be able to return, it is important that the Netherlands put its house in order in a structural manner. In recent years, the number of asylum seekers has been around 30,000 per year. Can the Secretary of State come up with a plan to address all the shortcomings in the Significant Public report and demonstrate that the IND can handle an annual influx of around 30,000 to 32,000 applications from asylum seekers and that the IND is developing a flexible capacity on top of that, so that the IND can quickly scale up in the event of an unexpected increase in applications? Is the Secretary of State prepared to send this budgetary treatment plan to both chambers this autumn? Finally, Mr President. I hope to see a day when politicians and administrators finally take responsibility, face the reality of our world, a reality in which the Netherlands must take its fair share in the reception of refugees worldwide, and refrain from short-term, unexecutable and even discriminatory measures and policies to ward off refugees. IND employees I know are trying to do their job with enormous dedication. They deserve to see asylum seekers, politicians and administrators stand firm for our Constitution and human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mrs Vos on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. We are rewarding bad behavior, with this law and with this hasty treatment. This law abolishes the incentive for the IND and therefore for the government to deal with asylum applications in good time. This incentive is abolished because the IND is unable to deal with cases on time. That's a reward for bad behavior. We all know that this is due to wrong policy choices, bad government behaviour in particular. The fact that we are standing here now, six days after the Lower House voted for a law and a few hours after answering our written questions, is already the second reward for bad behavior. The government is late, too late, filing this law and does not want to follow normal procedures because it wants to push the law through before the summer recess. Otherwise, it costs 1 million a week. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months and over the last few hours, we have seen billions of dollars. And they were allowed to be issued before both chambers agreed. If more time had been taken, the government could have come up with something better and the Chamber could have come up with better ideas. We have not been given that time. Nevertheless, the PvdA Group wants to try to propose some improvement and we hope for a commitment from the Secretary of State. The objections we have to this law have already been raised in the debate in the House of Representatives, in our written questions and in the speecher's contribution to me, Mrs Karimi. She's put our feelings right. The law discriminates, deprives a group of citizens of the right to go to the administrative courts and is not temporary. These are fundamental objections, but on the other side the coalition was not impressed by the objections. There was a political riot there and then it seems that it is not possible to improve the law by means of amendments. Mr. Chairman. Let me keep it positive anyway. I would like to focus my contribution on the incentive, an incentive that is used with great pleasure in other areas, and I am thinking of traffic fines, but that financial incentive will not work in this case. Indeed, you cannot ask the impossible questions of the employees of the IND. The incentive is for the government to do something not to have to pay 1 million a week. But this doesn't work for the government either. Is the finding that the financial incentive does not work to reduce waiting times for asylum seekers therefore prompt the government to reconsider financial incentives for behaviour in other sectors? Mr. Chairman. The government is looking for another incentive. I did not receive an answer to my question. What is the behavioral scientific basis under this new stimulus? I fear the answer is that the government has no new incentive and therefore no scientific basis for behaviour. Is my observation correct that the government has no idea what that appropriate incentive should be? Nevertheless, I am also very curious to see what the government will come up with. I read in the report of the debate in the House of Representatives that this will be in November. I am working on the other side of the matter, and that is the case of the asylum seeker himself. Those are the people who are going crazy waiting. They have seen their future fall apart and wander in a no-man's land of waiting, uncertainty and boredom, along with a lot of other people in small spaces, sometimes moving from one location to another. Isn't there something to think of that will ease the suffering of those who wait? One could call it an incentive, something positive, an incentive that requires both an effort from the government and a relief from the pain of the asylum seeker. After all, the PvdA Group agrees that a sum of money does not help the asylum seeker either. That waiting can be mitigated if you can invest in your own future, whether it is here in the Netherlands or in the country of origin. Courses English, courses Dutch, courses programming, these are skills that are useful to you everywhere. But if the asylum seeker already has these skills, why not undertake a course or an introduction to the democratic system of the Netherlands? Many of them come here because our country is safe and stable. In the Netherlands you are right before the law, the government is generally trustworthy, you can undertake without having to pay bribes. The Netherlands has become so prosperous and stable and attractive, because in centuries we have built up a system of checks-and-balances. And whether you stay or not, this knowledge is very valuable, just when you're waiting. This right to a course could take place six months after an application for asylum or for asylum has been lodged, and my group would prefer to do so as soon as possible after arriving in the Netherlands. Let us spend as little of the precious time as possible by waiting. For the government, the provision of courses is an incentive, because the training also costs money. However, in my group's view, it is a positive incentive, especially for the asylum seeker. Previously, a similar motion was adopted here in the House of Representatives, the Peters/Paternotte motion, during the examination of the budget of SZW. This motion asked for a quick start on language learning. The motion has been passed. And the request to this Chamber is actually to extend that motion to those asylum seekers who are currently waiting. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the proposal, as well as a commitment. My final point concerns learning from other Member States. The Netherlands is not the only country that sometimes has difficulty deciding on time. Article 31 of the procedural directive, Mrs Karimi has already referred to the examination procedure. How do they deal with timely decisions in other Member States? What measures are they taking to improve and speed up procedures? And what are the consequences for asylum seekers there if they do not decide in good time? Can they enforce a decision and will the delay affect their right of residence? Does the government want to investigate this and inform Parliament about it? Can this be done, for example, with the first quarterly report? I would like a response from the government to this, and I would also like a commitment. Mr President, so much for the contribution of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. The title of the law could lead to misunderstandings, because there's really nothing temporary about it. With some feeling you could call the law itself temporary, but at least not the suspension, because it is the government's express wish to abolish periodic penalty payments anyway. And when you talk about suspension and it's permanent suspension, it's just abolishing in my language. But this bill should not be primarily about periodic penalty payments, but about a human being: a person who is entitled to a government that acts carefully and comes to a decision in good time whether he or she is eligible for the protection we provide as the rule of law. That is the government we must stand for in our democratic rule of law. And looking at the motivation, which is almost a lamentation, I can't call it any other way, and which should be the basis of the present legislative proposal, then I am truly surprised. And then I express myself mildly. Unlike the Secretary of State in the written replies, the SP sees a structural problem with the IND, if only if I make the parallel with budgetary rules, that anything that lasts longer than three years should be considered structural. And along that bar, looking at the figures, the IND has a structural problem. As with many governments, but also with companies, COVID-19 is the reason why deep-down problems, which were previously masked, are now being forced to the surface and become ruthlessly visible. And the IND is no exception. COVID-19 is the catalyst, but it is not the cause. The cause is deeper. The organization is simply not in order, not now and not for a long time. The Council of State is even talking about a structural inability of the IND to make a timely decision. I am not saying anything about the employees' commitment, but I am saying everything about those responsible for the direction of and on the IND. My question to the Secretary of State is simply very specific: does she recognise that the IND has a structural problem? Mr. Chairman. Don't be dumb enough to pay periodic penalty payments, but make sure you get your shit together. That was my standard text, as authorised representative of the province of Zuid-Holland, to persuade large companies in the Rotterdam Rijnmond area to get their business in order. After all, paying a penalty doesn't relieve you of getting the case in order. So you spend money twice, of which at least one can be prevented. But if they didn't, then there was a relentless collection. That too is part of the rules of the game. These rules are clear in advance and therefore predictable. They are applied consistently. The rule of equal monks, equal hoods also applies. A little bit of the red thread today. Mr. Chairman. The size of the periodic penalty payments is a symptom that has now become visible, but the cause is the failing organisation of the IND. In the opinion of the SP, with the present legislative proposal, the government is doing symptom control. The cost is so high, the argument is. Yeah, that's right, but that can't be a surprise. The rules of the game were clear in advance. I was just referring to it. The certainty with which the State Secretary indicates that periodic penalty payments do not work is not only shared by the SP, but also not by the Council of State. Forced sums do work, provided they are high enough to force action and provided that the person with whom you want to force a change with periodic penalty payments leaves something to be desired. If that does not happen, periodic penalty payments will indeed not work. But that says something about the attitude and behaviour of the organization, and nothing about the remedy penalty payment. From my own practice: companies to which I have imposed periodic penalty payments in the past and which have failed to comply, were given the stamp of reactive and calculating. They came to the pile of special supervision. My question is therefore: when has the IND decided, and with that at the Ministry, because there it seems that the payment of periodic penalty payments is more economically efficient than putting things in order? That is my specific question. That's what I'm curious about. Mr. Chairman. Limiting legal remedies, in this case the administrative judge, is a solution to democratic poverty. The Secretary of State has already nuanced her earlier statements on the role of the civil court in the written reply, but fact is... Well, let me just say this: paying periodic penalty payments is the result of ignoring a judge's ruling, which has ruled that a decision must be taken. Moreover, those same judges, or on appeal, determine the amount of the periodic penalty payment, which is not laid down by law. Perhaps there is a relationship between the amount of the penalty payment and the irritation on the part of the judges that no decision is taken and no follow-up to the judgments. The fact is that a legal door is now being opened to the civil court. Past experience shows that if a legal door is opened, it will also be used. I can only assume that the Secretary of State will not be surprised if it actually happens. In addition, I hope that it will not be bon ton to cut off judicial routes. We were able to read in the newspaper tonight, for what it is worth, that in the implementation of the new pension agreement the right of objection will also be temporarily removed, because people are afraid of a stream of court cases. Surely that should not be the way in which we in the Netherlands manage things together? Mr. Chairman. The SP is surprised that the Secretary of State wishes to abolish the current system of periodic penalty payments without giving a hint of what should replace those periodic penalty payments. It's kind of like walking into a garage, buying a car there, asking for the key and telling them I'm gonna think about how I'm gonna take care of the payment and they're gonna hear more about it in a couple of months. It can't work that way, can it? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what plans she's going to work out. In any case, it has indicated that the granting of a licence is not included in the event of a time limit being exceeded. Now I'm not a fan of a "lex silencio positivo" approach myself, but what is? A wheel clamp on the Secretary of State's car? Get the department's coffee machine? Croquettes from the menu? I am now making a bit of a caricature of it, but so is the Secretary of State's silence, because she does not give us any insight, even though it is the measures that have to show that the temporaryity of the legislative proposal before us is realistic. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. If this bill were to be adopted, what would happen to the million periodic penalty payments which, according to the Secretary of State, are now being paid on a weekly basis? Does this one-on-one benefit the structural organisation of the IND? And are the additional measures that are being taken to put the IND in order already structuralally funded? I would also like that question to be answered. Mr. Chairman. This bill is for the fraction of the SP symptom control. So far it has been a bill of denial of structural problems and with the removal of the administrative judge also of democratic poverty. This means that the pain due to failing government policies is now necessarily placed in the wrong place. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the government's response as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. I will keep my contribution brief today. As far as this law is concerned, time is money. In this case, many millions of taxpayers' money from our Dutch citizens disappearing into the pockets of asylum profiteers, with periodic penalty payments of €100 per person per day, sometimes even €250 per day, with a maximum of €15,000. That is why the proposal before us must be dealt with as quickly as possible in this Chamber so that this absurdity of the periodic penalty payments can be put to an end. The Secretary of State has been dawdling for far too long. According to the explanatory memorandum, the penalty payment obligations have thus risen to between EUR 30 million and EUR 40 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u10	I have a question for Mr Van Hattem. Does he agree with me that judgments should be complied with and enforced?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u11	I didn't say anything about court decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u12	Is Mr Van Hattem aware that the amount of €100 he mentions is not included in the law, but that this is a free interpretation of the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u13	I note that there are amounts of around €100 per person per day, rising to up to €250 per person per day, through the periodic penalty payments, and that there is a scheme that makes this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr Janssen, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u15	Does Mr Van Hattem think that the judge is out of line when he or she takes this freedom, which is legally given?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u16	You didn't hear me say that. I find that there is an arrangement. There is now a possibility to impose a penalty payment. We need to get rid of that. Anyone who comes here as an asylum seeker looking for security and then goes on to claim all kinds of periodic penalty payments, I call an asylum seeker, if you are looking for that question. I would like to make that quite clear. And it can indeed go up to €15,000, in Dutch tax money. It's outrageous!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u17	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. Since the explanatory statement is already dated on 2 June and it goes on to reach EUR 1 million per week, we are already some EUR 5 million further. That is why the first question to the Secretary of State. Article 4 states that the law enters into force one day after publication in the Official Journal. Can the Secretary of State undertake to sign this law as soon as possible after its adoption in this Chamber and to be placed in the Official Journal so that it can enter into force before the end of this working week? As far as PVV is concerned, it could have happened much sooner and much faster. In November last year, our second parliamentary group asked to intervene and tabled a motion to stop the payment of periodic penalty payments. It was dissuaded by the Secretary of State. Even before the Secretary of State came up with this bill, the PVV Group in the Lower House already filed an initiative law. And in 2006 Mr Wilders opposed the introduction of this measure which gives asylum seekers the right to abuse our government as an ATM. So you should have listened to the PVV earlier. But according to the Secretary of State, this shouldn't even be called abuse. In the note on the report, she states: "If asylum lawyers and NGOs assist foreigners in going through this procedure, I do not think it can be said that there is a situation in which they have a role in abusing it." How long will the Secretary of State continue to condone the greed of the asylum industry? Instead of facing the fact that the asylum activist sector uses this as a earning model, the Secretary of State continues to throw good money behind bad money. It is not for nothing that refugee work, which accounts for some 10 million euros of subsidy per year from this Secretary of State, turns into their activist role against this bill. Why does the Secretary of State continue to protect them, while these asylum activists are increasing the pressure on the IND by pushing through asylum procedures and incessantly bringing in foreigners? Instead of using the IND staff as optimally as possible here in the Netherlands to prevent these periodic penalty payments, IND staff are abroad to get more asylum seekers to the Netherlands. For example, the IND website reads: "Because a common problem can only be tackled jointly, the IND provides people and expertise to other Member States. For example, document experts from the IND are checking documents in Greece, helping Greece and Italy to implement their asylum procedure and working in Turkey, Greece and Italy to relocate Syrian refugees to the Netherlands." Special teams with IND staff are deployed in Turkey, among others, for "resettlement missions" to pick up asylum seekers to the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the IND's commitment to these conversion missions relates to the staff shortage in the IND in the Netherlands? Nor does the Secretary of State want the penalty payment system to be abolished in its entirety. Because of so-called European legal obligations, the Secretary of State ultimately wants to come up with alternatives to ensure that foreigners have an insight into a decision within a reasonable period of time. In the meantime, no other EU Member State has a similar system where foreigners can forfeit periodic penalty payments, says the Secretary of State himself in the letter of reply. So why feel the pressure of so-called European legal obligations? Or does the Netherlands have to be the goodest boy in the EU class again? Finally, Mr President. The Secretary of State is looking for measures to prevent the payment of periodic penalty payments in the future and talks about a task force which "is given scope to identify and implement all possible, conceivable and, if necessary, unconventional measures." That doesn't have to be so hard at all. The best measure is to close borders. Stop allowing more asylum seekers. Then we will be free of these periodic penalty payments. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u19	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mrs Stienen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. From 1995 to 2004, I worked at the Dutch embassies in Cairo in Egypt and Damascus in Syria with a focus on human rights, asylum and migration. During that time, I worked a lot with employees of the IND. On the one hand, I have seen how carefully and heartily for people these employees tried to give hands and feet to the ever-changing Dutch foreign policy. On the other hand, I saw how the wave movements of political reality had a major impact on the IND and how the employees increasingly got into trouble in achieving legal deadlines, with all the consequences for the people who had asked the Netherlands for protection on the basis of the Refugee Convention. We know the stories about the long waiting times, the uncertainty about their status and no chance to mean anything to the Netherlands right away. Mrs Karimi also mentioned it: everyone who read the book "How I got talent for life" by Rodaan Al Galidi knows what I mean and otherwise the book is still recommended for the coming summer. When you type in the search terms "deficiencies" and "IND," many articles, investigations and even three General Court reports come up. From 1996 to today, the red line is in all these articles and reports: the IND is working on eliminating the backlogs. And yes, in the period 2006, 2007, 2008 went better. According to a report by the General Court of Auditors in 2009, there were real improvements. However, the joy didn't last long, because the same General Court published a report in 2012 which found that treatment times were up again. This was associated, among other things, with a failed IT system and savings that could not be booked. According to the General Court, staff reductions had also contributed to the failure to meet treatment deadlines and the increasing number of complaints. In view of the above, it is remarkable that the service was cut back in 2016. The IND did not extend the contracts of employees, thinking that due to the Turkey deal from 2016 there would be no or less refugees. We are now in 2020 and the recent reports by Significant Public and KPMG on the IND show that there are still major concerns about the functioning of this service, including the cuts, poor planning, inadequate funding systems, staff shortages and lack of decision-making capacity. Mr. Chairman. The law we are dealing with today is simply not called "improving the functioning of the IND," but "Temporary law suspending periodic penalty payments IND." My group believes that the enormous haste with which we are dealing with this law deserves no beauty prize, quite the contrary. Mrs. Vos mentioned that as well. On the other hand, however, we remain optimistic about the fact that, if we have to, we can act quickly from the Ministry of Justice and Security. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank all those officials who have had to work overtime this weekend. We hope that this momentum will also be reflected in the way in which this State Secretary works with the recommendations of Significant Public and KPMG. Would the Secretary of State also explain briefly again in this plenary debate today how it intends to do so? Will it keep this Chamber informed of the implementation of the findings of these reports? How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that even after 2021, if everything should be in order, the IND will be able to get into calmer waters? How then does it ensure stability for the longer term, so that not every time a changing political wind puts pressure on this organisation with austerity? Mr. Chairman. My introduction immediately shows the inconvenience that the D66 Group has with this temporary law. We are talking about continuing problems at the IND, where we believe the basis for the great delay in examining applications for asylum lies. The Secretary of State states in the explanatory statement that the rising periodic penalty payments and the corresponding capacity also put great pressure on the IND. This means that this temporary law suspends the right of asylum seekers under the General Administrative Law to fail a Dutch public authority if an application for asylum has not been decided in good time, or, in other words, the right to a periodic penalty payment completely disappears with this temporary law, unless the proposal for a permanent law is rejected. An asylum seeker can't go to the administrative court for a year. Our inconvenience is also that we read in the note following the report that the Secretary of State says that this law focuses on a particular category of decisions that should be excluded, namely those for which the penalty payment does not work. Is the Secretary of State specifically concerned with applications for asylum or with all decisions based on the Foreigners Act 2000? The Secretary of State also states: "The reason for the exception is not that it concerns foreigners, but that it concerns a category of decisions for which the penalty payment does not work." My group has asked a question on this, which we have not yet received an answer to, namely: is there not legal inequality? After all, in other matters outside the asylum procedure, this possibility remains on the basis of the General Administrative Law Act. Now my group assumes... I'm going to the next block, so I'm gonna wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u21	I am pleased to hear that Mrs Stienen, as spokesman for the D66 Group, also expressed her discomfort here. That's what gives hope. My question is this. The Secretary of State says it's a procedure that I want to rule out and not the people. Who are the people who make the most use of the Alien Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u22	That's asking about the familiar road. These are the people who do not yet have Dutch nationality, but who come into contact with the Dutch government. I've come to the headline that it's about people, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u23	This means that it is about people and not about procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u24	I'm very curious to see how the Secretary of State will respond to that. As a group of D66 we are always happy when GroenLinks quotes the great works of former Minister Pechtold, so thank you for that. I think that is a very important point you made in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u25	Mrs. Karimi, third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u26	That's interesting. My question is whether Mrs Stienen agrees with me that this means that it is simply discriminatory. In practice, a distinction is made between people with Dutch and non-Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u27	As I said, thanks to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I myself found out about the legal treatment in 2006 and the quotes made by former Minister Pechtold, and I am indeed very curious about the reply of the Secretary of State to your questions on Article 1 and whether there is any legal inequality here. I shall continue my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u28	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u29	My group now assumes that the majority of asylum seekers would like to clarify their situation as soon as possible. Most asylum seekers will certainly not immediately be waiting for a sum of money, but rather for a ruling on whether they can stay in the Netherlands and get protection or whether they should return to the country of origin. The question we need to answer together tonight is therefore whether the adoption of this temporary law will help to ensure that the IND will really put things in order and whether the rights of asylum seekers in this temporary law will be guaranteed as much as possible. The D66 Group would like to know from the Secretary of State how many cases have really fallen behind. How many of these cases exceed the time limit for decision-making? And in how many cases has the IND been defaulted? In the letter of 3 March young members to the Lower House, the State Secretary of 8900 speaks cases. In its reply to this Chamber this morning, it refers to 1,500 cases as the basis for the amount of the 1 million per week. The task force is lagging behind in 14,000 cases. We are a little confused, so we hope that the Secretary of State will clarify this. Now I'm talking business, but of course it's about people. The report of Refugee Work from November 2019 "Incarcerated in a stalled asylum system: consequences and stories from practice" clearly shows what it means for people if they have to wait a long time for a decision by the IND about their status. My group is therefore pleased to hear what the Secretary of State has done with the recommendations contained in this report. I was charmed by the questions put by Mr Vos of the PvdA. My group welcomes the clear explanation given by the Secretary of State on the questions surrounding the temporality of this law. It is good to hear that this law cannot become permanent. The question is how long this law can be extended during the examination of a new bill. What, then, is the State Secretary's view of the moment when asylum seekers can in any case appeal against the IND's untimely decision? If you look at the history of the delays in the IND, my group can well imagine that for a long time it has been thought that the possibility of recourse to periodic penalty payments can be a good thing. We can also see this in the overview. It didn't start to get any worse until 2018. What was going on in the years before, my group asks the Secretary of State. The D66 Group also feels uncomfortable about the fact that there is still no clarity about the alternative that should be introduced into the permanent law instead of the penalty payment. My group would like to know how this new incentive relates to the current provisions in the General Administrative Law on the absence of timely decisions by public authorities. Is it completely inconceivable that the possibility of periodic penalty payments should turn out to be a good stick behind the door? My group is curious about the investigation undertaken by the Secretary of State to the SGP in the Lower House on how other EU countries ensure that there is sufficient incentive for asylum and migration authorities to decide on asylum applications in good time. Can the Secretary of State also send her findings to this Chamber in good time? Mr. Chairman. On 15 May last, the Secretary of State extended the decision-making period by six months. We understand that this has been done in view of the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, but we would like to hear from the Secretary of State when it will bring the decision-making period back to six months. We also want to know what this extension means for the existing cases where the normal six-month decision period had already been reached. Mr President, I will conclude. The D66 Group would like to receive a letter to review the measures taken in other EU countries under the European Commission's aforementioned guidelines on the application of the Procedural Directive in times of COVID-19. The D66 Group understands that the Secretary of State hopes that with this temporary law it will be able to ensure that the IND can put things in order quickly, so that the legal deadlines can be restored within a year. However, my group has difficulty with the possible legal inequality that may arise from the abolition of periodic penalty payments in the category of decision on applications for asylum. That is why my group is happy to await the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u30	Mrs Stienen has asked a lot of questions. I would like to know what the spokesperson of the D66 Group thinks of the Secretary of State saying that the adoption of this bill will permanently abolish the periodic penalty payments under the entire Foreigner's Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u31	Well, we don't really know how we feel about this yet. Let me put it another way: we can understand the temporary suspension of these periodic penalty payments, but at the same time we also have concerns, because we do not know exactly what the alternative is. We are going to see what the Secretary of State has to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u32	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. Finally, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u33	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this temporary legislative proposal is the getting out of hand of the decision-makers at the IND. Due to the frequent failure to comply with these decisions, the number of proceedings before the administrative courts has increased and the periodic penalty payments granted have increased to 1 million per week, according to the documents sent to us by the Secretary of State. Due to the extent to which decisive mines are exceeded, the number of procedures and periodic penalty payments granted are now so high that their handling requires so much manpower that this contributes to the further sinking of the IND into the swamp. That is why my group can accept this temporary law for practical reasons. By temporarily abolishing the penalty payment, the IND gets air to put things in order, and that is necessary. There is nothing wrong with the penalty payment itself in my group's view. It's gonna go wrong in the IND's M.O. We therefore believe that it is very important to clarify how things have gotten out of hand with the IND. This is necessary in order to put things in order. The reports of KPMG and Significant Bureau, which the Secretary of State had drawn up, show that the IND is not only concerned with a lack of human strength in the event of a slight increase in asylum seekers. There is also a need for an important professionalisation battle. If the Secretary of State is to reach the decision-makers in the future, it will have to do much more than simply set up a task force to deal with the backlogs. Can the Secretary of State promise that the Chamber will be kept regularly informed of improvements in the organisation of the IND? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State not only abolishes the penalty payment in the temporary bill, it also abolishes the possibility for the asylum seeker to appeal against a late decision in order to improve the organisation. That goes a long way beyond abolishing the penalty payment. Following the criticism of the Council of State, it limited this measure to one year in the law. This is a clear time limit and asylum seekers are, of course, always open to civil courts. However, I would like to hear again from the Secretary of State why she considers this far-reaching measure necessary. Mr. Chairman. The law is temporary, but the oppaign to a final law. Hence the ambiguity around the end of this temporary law, at the latest one year plus the time taken to deal with the final law in the States General. Is that right? The Secretary of State has already announced that the final legislative proposal does not include the possibility of requiring a periodic penalty payment if the decision period is exceeded. It will provide another incentive to encourage the IND to decide within the time limit. We do not share the Secretary of State's analysis that the periodic penalty payments are in themselves the cause of the waiting times. They are the result. The penalty payment is an alarm bell, to which must be responded and so far the alarm bells have been ignored. That is why the situation has evolved into what it is today. Nor can we include the statement made by the Secretary of State in the note on the report that this is another category of decisions, for which the penalty payment does not work. Can the Secretary of State explain this? The Secretary of State now organises time and space to equip the IND better and enable it to decide on asylum applications in a competent and timely manner, and that will also be very pleasant for the IND staff, because they often work with great commitment to arrive at good decisions. A separate task force will eliminate the delays and thus put an end to the unbearably long waiting times for some asylum seekers. In the event of a higher influx or other unforeseen cases, the law already allows the State Secretary to extend the decision-makers' mines. When the Secretary of State gets the IND back in order, we see no reason why it should not be able to comply with the law on periodic penalty payments. The Secretary of State indicates that she will come up with a different incentive for the IND, but what this incentive will look like has so far been completely unclear. Of course, my group will assess this alternative incentive for legality and effectiveness. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u34	I have listened carefully to Mrs Huizinga's reasoning and I am therefore surprised that she started her speech by saying that she can agree to this bill. It indicates that it is not in fact yet ready to agree that periodic penalty payments will disappear permanently for asylum seekers, but that is Article 4 (2) of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u35	It can never be the case that two laws are passed in one law. This law is a temporary law, and it indeed indicates what the Secretary of State intends to do next, but it cannot be that by agreeing to this law we are at the same time agreeing to a second law, a law that has yet to come. What I am saying here is that we support this temporary law and the temporary abolition of periodic penalty payments, but that we certainly reserve the room to consider whether we can agree to the final law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u36	But that is a decision with enormous consequences. Because of course you can take that freedom for yourself, but in fact, from the moment this bill becomes a law, that law will come into force until a new, final law comes into effect. Its treatment may take years and in that period this law applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u37	Then the temporary law applies, but we are now talking about the final law and I say that our agreement to this temporary law does not automatically mean that we are also going to agree to a law that still has to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u38	Mrs. Karimi, third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u39	The conclusion is that there is a huge error of opinion, if I may put it this way, in this reasoning, because the temporary law is simply not temporary. It is linked to the final law in such a way that, with your agreement to this temporary law, you do agree to a final law abolishing periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether there is indeed a mistake in my reasoning. I'd like to hear her response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u41	In addition to what Mrs Karimi is asking. In the answers we received today from the government, however, there is no doubt that 'the government no longer considers the loss of periodic penalty payments, even if the IND is in a position to decide on applications in good time as a rule, to be an appropriate means of ensuring a timely decision'. Do you or do you not agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u42	I didn't hear it right. I didn't quite understand what you were saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u43	The Government no longer considers the forfeiture of periodic penalty payments an appropriate means of ensuring a timely decision. So the government renounces periodic penalty payments at all as a means of asylum procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u44	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I imagine that in this situation, where things are getting so out of hand with the IND, you say: we stop the periodic penalty payments and take the time to put things in order. But when the final law comes next, I would very much like to look at the Secretary of State's alternative measure to see whether it is effective and legitimate. For the time being, my group has the impression that there would be nothing against reintegrating itself into the periodic penalty payments Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u45	Mrs. Fox, third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u46	So I can conclude that if the law that is now being announced does not meet the criteria of the Christian Union, then the Christian Union could vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u47	If we do not agree with the final law, we will certainly vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u48	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u49	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to make a few comments. My group has difficulty with the atmosphere that is expressed here and there in the explanatory statement. There are comments as if strangers would get bed, bath and bread, and I say it quite domestically should not complain. There is talk of a lack of balance when foreigners who receive shelter would also receive a penalty payment. It should be noted, however, that this is certainly not the foreign policy envisaged by my group. Finally. Failure to decide on an application in good time is not only an administrative or organisational problem. It is not just a social problem, as the Secretary of State calls it here and there in the documents. It is mainly a personal problem, for people whose lives stand still until they have had a decision. That decision may be disappointing or disappointing, but let it be the Secretary of State's commitment not to keep these people waiting longer than is absolutely necessary to make a good and careful decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to answer directly or do you want a suspension? We're gonna suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u51	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Temporary Law suspension periodic penalty payments. Now the government has the floor. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin to answer the questions raised by your Members in the first term, I would like to thank your Chamber for having shown its willingness to propose this bill so shortly before the recess for plenary. I know from my own experience how difficult that is and what is being asked of Members of Parliament. I am very grateful that the Members of Parliament have done so and have been prepared, in this very short period of time, to table this proposal and also to put in writing questions in that very short period of time and to take up the answers to the written questions. I am especially grateful for that, because this is a very important bill, I think. It should put an end to the disproportionate burdens currently on the IND as soon as possible. Let me say first of all that it is of the utmost importance that we simply decide on applications in good time. As you know, I have already started everything to ensure that the IND will be in order by the end of this year and that by the end of the year the 14,000 cases will be completed until 1 April of this year. Then the IND is in order in that regard. Legally, there is a lot to say about making a decision in good time. This obligation is based on European law and we have to abide by it. But as I also emphasised in the House of Representatives, I think it is at least as important that there are great personal and social interests involved in a timely decision. An applicant for protection should be able to start integration as soon as possible. It's good for that person, but it's also good for our society. On the other hand, it is very important that an asylum seeker who is not entitled to protection should be told as soon as possible that he must leave the country and that, if he does not, he can be forced to do so. It should be avoided that costs for reception, for example, go through unnecessarily long periods. Yet I cannot close my eyes to reality. In recent times, it has become clear that the penalty payment obligations have become a serious obstacle for the IND on the road to a future in which the decision can normally be taken within the time limits. That is why I urgently put this bill into procedure. Its purpose is simple, but of great importance: it must stop the penalty payment obligations in asylum matters as soon as possible. I understand this could be an inconvenience. Why should you exclude asylum seekers from something that is so common in administrative law? Mr. Chairman. I believe there are very good grounds for this. The possibility of receiving periodic penalty payments is not an end in itself. It's not a benefit you get or don't get. There are coercions to promote timely decision-making by the administrative body, and that is precisely where it is lacking in asylum matters. It has been shown that periodic penalty payments in asylum matters do not serve that purpose. In fact, they're counterproductive. I'd be a bad driver if I didn't try to stop a counterproductive practice with the resources that are within my power. That does not, of course, mean that I have a duty to ensure that alternatives to periodic penalty payments are provided, other instruments that can be used to ensure that a foreigner receives a decision on his application within a reasonable period of time. That is what this is about: a timely decision. As is well known, a second legislative proposal will be submitted in the short term. That proposal will provide for good alternatives. We shall undoubtedly be discussing this in the course of the discussion of this proposal. The proposal now requires some work, but I did not want to wait for it. For now, I think it is of the utmost importance that this temporary law should put an end to the consequences for the IND of the Penalty and Appeal Act as soon as possible in the event of a failure to take a decision in time. I shall now turn to the various questions that have been asked. Mrs Karimi asked a question in response to the comment made by the Council of State. The Council of State understands the suspension of periodic penalty payments, but considers that they should return when the IND is in order. Why didn't I choose that? The government no longer considers the forfeiting of periodic penalty payments, even if the IND is able to decide on applications in good time, to be an appropriate means of ensuring a timely decision. Although, of course, every effort is made to prevent this, there can always be a situation where applications cannot be dismissed in good time. I only have to imagine that there is another horrible situation that we experienced in Syria in 2015, when a lot of people had to flee the country and we got a huge stream of refugees here. Mrs Karimi mentioned the number of 59.000. That's how many there were back then. At a time like this, there's an emergency. The obligation to reimburse periodic penalty payments may result in disproportionate financial burdens. In practice, the situation may rather arise that the conduct of the procedures in question has very adverse effects on other tasks, which must also be carried out. Mrs Karimi also asked if the IND is the only administrative body where periodic penalty payments are not effective. How was that judged by me? Why isn't it effective? Furthermore, she says: because of the periodic penalty payments, the Secretary of State is now taking action. Whether the IND is the only administrative body where periodic penalty payments are not effective, I cannot see now. What I do know is that it is for the IND, and I want to solve that problem as soon as possible. Mrs Karimi has also asked what I am going to do about the interpretation of the civil courts. What other means are available to an asylum seeker to enforce and strengthen an early decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u53	Mrs Karimi, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u54	Actually, it's about the previous point. I asked if the IND is the only one because the introduction of the law on periodic penalty payments in 2006 discussed in detail the exclusion of the IND. Then the argument was not to do so: that is not possible for the IND alone. If you have a valid argument why it should apply to the IND, you should also look at other governing bodies. Otherwise, it's discriminatory. That was actually the debate then. My question is then: have you examined whether it applies to other organs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u55	I haven't examined that now. The only thing that is certain is that the periodic penalty payments are not effective for the IND. They just don't work. It has no effect, otherwise we would not have had 14,000 cases, most of which have run out of time. Moreover, I have to say that most of the tax law is not subject to periodic penalty payments. As far as the Public Administration Act is concerned, the periodic penalty payments have been abolished because of abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u56	I know, but that was a different story. This is about that when you abolish periodic penalty payments for the IND or exclude the Alien Act, as you intend to permanently do, you are dealing with people who are selected on the basis of nationality. That's just against the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u57	Is that your question, Mrs Karimi?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u59	I fully understand the concern expressed by Mrs Karimi, namely whether it is not discrimination. If I understand correctly, that is ultimately Mrs Karimi's question. That is not the case, because it is not a means against foreigners. It's not because he's a stranger. What we find is that periodic penalty payments do not work in this area. Otherwise, we wouldn't be so much behind. If we didn't have that problem, I wouldn't be here talking to you about this. Once again, I really hope Mrs Karimi understands this from me. It's not directed at strangers at all. I absolutely want that off the table. What matters is that the drug doesn't work in the domain we're working on. That has nothing to do with the stranger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u60	Mrs. Karimi, third and last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u61	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that in practice it is the effect that foreigners who invoke the Aliens Act are excluded from any administrative measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u62	Once again, I understand Mrs Karimi's concerns, but what I am concerned about is firstly that we see that the measure of periodic penalty payments in the field of asylum, which I am talking about here, does not work at all and has not worked. In short, it is not that incentive that is needed to make the IND decide faster. At the same time, there is only one thing that is important, namely that there are timely decisions. For this, it is necessary to use all the strength to ensure that the IND gets in order and can always deliver those timely decisions. That is why I believe that it is important that these periodic penalty payments should be removed, because too much capacity of the IND should be used to respond to all those appeals, all those appeals against not taking timely decisions and defaults.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u63	I see that the Secretary of State is very much inclined to say that it is indeed not directed against foreigners. I also feel that she thinks so, but that is why it is particularly important to know where periodic penalty payments work in other sectors. 'Cause then you can actually prove it. There may be other sectors where periodic penalty payments do work. You are concerned with the means of periodic penalty payments, which in this case, in this sector, does not work. That is why it is so important to have an answer to that question. If you don't have it now, then I understand that, but are you going to give us, especially when that new law comes, an overview of where this works or doesn't work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u64	What matters is... I also understand Mrs Vos's point: where does it work and are there other sectors where it doesn't work? Here and there it's best that a penalty doesn't work. But I'm sure of one thing: in the asylum area, a penalty payment doesn't work at all. Otherwise, we wouldn't have the 14,000 cases that the task force should be solving right now. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. I think it's important that I, from the responsibility I have, make sure that that is resolved. Maybe it wouldn't work somewhere else? Then I would ask the person who is going to take a look at that perhaps, but in this case we have a problem that does not allow the IND to free up enough capacity to do those things right. That's gonna put us way behind schedule. Thus, as an incentive, it has not had the effect that might have been intended. You'd say the fact that these periodic penalty payments meant that we should never have had to deal with those 14,000 cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u65	I understand that. The Secretary of State speaks about the domain for which she is responsible. However, in order to at least take away the impression that this may only apply to asylum seekers, it is important for us to know what is going on in other sectors with periodic penalty payments. That's the question. I understand you're trying to solve this problem. But because we also do not want to give the impression that we are only doing this for asylum seekers, I have also heard the colleague of the PVV, I think this is a relevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u66	I understand Mrs Fox's question. I would also like to raise this point. I hope this Chamber will be able to agree to this temporary law. At the same time, I am coming up with a final law as soon as possible. I'd like to do that as soon as possible. That also means that this has to be speeded up. It needs to be tackled vigorously. To go through the entire administrative domain in the Netherlands to see where this works or not, is almost impossible, because that means that you have to look at everything tremendously and that would be extremely annoying for the final law that I would like to have after we could hopefully have introduced the temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u67	I'm going to another topic, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State mentioned the huge increase in applications in 2015. I'm stuck here with a dilemma, a bit of the chicken egg story. Are there any delays in the IND because of the whole list that has also emerged in the reports? I'm not going to read all that, because it's been written down this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u68	Short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u69	Or are there delays in the IND because of the periodic penalty payments? If you look at the page 9 of the answer we received this morning, you will see that in 2015 there were 103 penalty payments and only later, in 2017 and 2018, you will see that increase. I would very much like to know from the Secretary of State: is that on the one hand because of the delays and the situation at the IND and on the other because of the periodic penalty payments? Or is it a combination? Where's the center of gravity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u70	I think it's a combination eventually. What happened, Mrs Stienen herself said. In 2015 we had a huge influx for the IND. He suddenly had to assess everything from 59,000 asylum seekers. After that, there's far too much scaling down. I think Mrs Stienen agrees with me. It's scaled down way too fast. That's what happened. I can jump high or low, but it's done. At the same time, the influx of new asylum seekers has also increased slightly. If you do not include the post-travels, the number of new asylum seekers has increased slightly. Those huge delays have thus been caused by the fact that there has been too rapid a scaling down while at the same time there has been a slight increase. And then the objections are discussed, for which human power must also be used. And then it's gonna derail completely. Then it's gonna get all messed up. It was only in 2019 that this was very much manifested. Why is that? To be honest, I understand that very well. That is also because the irritation of asylum seekers who have to wait a long time for a decision at some point has increased so much that they say: and now it is done, now we are going to start that procedure. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u71	That's not irritation. That's just a legal right. I have two short questions. One. Has it been wise, with the wisdom of today, to release such large cuts on the IND in 2016, 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u72	I understand Mrs Stienen's point. I was just saying, that's what happened. I can jump high or low, but it's done. In Hindsight it is always easy to say: we should never have done that. There are always things that should have been different. But it has indeed happened and because of it and through the whole sadness I mentioned, we are now in fact having problems with the lead times. I would also like to say a few words about the irritation of asylum seekers. They might have done this before, in 2018. I understand very well that at some point someone says: it's real enough, now I'm going to do it. That has indeed led to the influx we are dealing with today. And then I'm talking about $1 million a week, and this year maybe some $70 million in periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u73	Mrs. Stienen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u74	When I look at the state, I think: apparently these periodic penalty payments have worked well until 2016 to meet the deadlines, so if the IND is in order... That is the real dilemma of my group. Hasn't this been a really good stick behind the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u75	The Secretary of State and then Mr Van Hattem
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u76	Mr. Chairman. I hope I have been clear on that, but I seem to have not been clear enough. We see that, when there are serious flashes, for example, when there is suddenly another huge influx, we can still be so flexible with the IND, but a really large influx cannot be picked up as quickly and flexibly. That means before you know it, there will be the problem of periodic penalty payments. And that's something the IND gets robbed by. And we don't think that's a good way to get the IND to make the decisions on time. That is why I also propose that the final law, which I come up with as soon as possible after the summer, should ensure that there is a good incentive, not periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u77	However, I would like to respond to the discussion that just took place about that it would be discriminatory, that it would only be directed at foreigners and so on, or because they would be foreigners. I think there is one aspect that the Secretary of State has not yet appointed, and I would like to mention this here, and that is that the IND now has to do with developments abroad, information from abroad that they depend on. But I also think that what is in the reply note that we have received today is an important aspect. It says: "In addition, where asylum applications are concerned, it is not in balance that, on the one hand, the costs of basic necessities for applicants and free legal assistance are provided during the procedure, even if this procedure lasts longer than foreseen, while, on the other hand, applicants may receive large amounts of money in case of a late decision on the application." So my question to the Secretary of State is: would you perhaps also like to take up the point here, and that is what I am actually asking those who just made the interruptions, that this is also largely achieved by the asylum lawyer, who can, of course, take up the free legal aid that asylum seekers receive in this procedure as some kind of earning model.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u78	In the Netherlands, we have the system of free legal aid for the asylum seeker from the start of the asylum procedure. And that system will be maintained in no time, and I have nothing else to add to it. What matters is that the asylum seekers know where they stand as soon as possible, and that they do not have to wait longer than is necessary and no longer have to spend virtually endless time in the shelter. That is why measures such as periodic penalty payments have proved ineffective, and for this reason the Cabinet believes that periodic penalty payments in the asylum domain should be abolished. But it is also a matter of a decision as soon as possible, for the asylum seeker who is able and able to stay here. It's incredibly important for the asylum seeker to know what he's up to. In the end, it's about those people. The IND must do well, we must do well, I must do well, but what matters is the asylum seeker, who comes here, who asks for protection. And then it is important that he knows as soon as possible: can I get that protection in the Netherlands, can I get a permit, yes or no? And if it is yes, then help with integration as quickly as possible, because that is important for all parties. And if the asylum application is not viable and is therefore rejected, then return to the country of origin as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u79	My question was not so much about the issue of the asylum seeker himself as about the role of the asylum lawyer, i.e. the free legal aid granted to asylum seekers. That is, of course, a model of income for asylum lawyers. And if they are going to carry out penalty payment procedures, they can of course take them back into the legal aid paid by the government. Isn't it a perverse incentive for that asylum lawyer to make extra use of these periodic penalty payments, and isn't that also a factor contributing to the accumulation of these penalty payment procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u80	I don't know what you're talking about. What I do know is that we have a good lawyer in the Netherlands. And the Dutch order of lawyers oversees the law. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u81	Mr. Van Hattem, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u82	I have to say that the statistics also show that there is a strong increase in procedures. And as far as I am concerned, this incentive should really be taken out, because this really seems to me to be a factor contributing to the deployment of those periodic penalty payments...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u83	Clearly, your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u84	.. because the average asylum seeker who comes here doesn't know about the hat and the edge, and that there is the possibility of submitting such a penalty payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u85	Mr Van Hattem's point is clear to me, but we have opted for this legislative proposal for which I am standing here under the Temporary Law on the suspension of periodic penalty payments, because the periodic penalty payments in the field of asylum have not proved effective. Mr. Chairman. I was still working on Mrs Karimi's questions about the civil court. For one year after the entry into force of the law, the asylum seeker will not be able to appeal to the administrative judge. As indicated, I certainly do not think that is happy, but there is simply an emergency. It just doesn't have to be any different. I don't see any other options at the moment. In the meantime, I cannot and will not comment on whether the foreigner will successfully be able to appeal to the civil court. I've said that before. That's up to that judge, to that civilian judge. Mrs Stienen has asked for the following. If the temporary law continues to apply longer, because a proposal for the final law has been submitted, when can the asylum seeker in turn appeal to the administrative judge against non-timely decisions? Following the opinion of the Section of the Council of State, the draft law has been amended in such a way that, if the temporary law continues to apply one year after its entry into force, it will at that time be possible to bring proceedings against non-time decisions before the administrative court. Mrs Stienen also asked whether the asylum applications concerned all categories of foreigners. This temporary law is about asylum matters. That is where the financial problems are currently disproportionate. Mr Van Hattem asked a question about Article 4 of the law, that the law enters into force one day after publication. He was wondering if we could do it this week, if that law is passed. I can assure you that everything will be put on that. It is of course also dependent on the Majesty, but as soon as possible, if possible at the end of the week. At least as soon as possible, if adopted. Mrs Huizinga asked if I think that asylum seekers should be denied the penalty, because their shelter and livelihood are provided upon arrival in the Netherlands. I certainly did not want to say that asylum seekers should not be entitled to a periodic penalty payment because their shelter and livelihood are provided. If the penalty was to work, this could not be an argument at all. But as you know, I have already said it several times this evening, and the periodic penalty payments are not working. I just wanted to say that it may not be balanced. What matters to me is that those who hear that they do not receive an asylum permit in the Netherlands will no longer be able to make use of the reception facilities as soon as possible, because that is a huge burden on the system. Perhaps it is also good to mention the following here, because that also contributes to the loss of life of the decision-makers. In the period 2015-2016, the Syrian conflict, about 80% of the asylum seekers who came to the Netherlands were granted a permit. Since 2017, 2018 about 70% of asylum seekers have been rejected. I can assure you that rejecting an asylum seeker takes more time and requires more effort. You must also be sure that you are making the right decision than when you can give someone a permit. It really costs more capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u86	I'd like to come back to the issue of civil justice. You handled that very quickly. You said it wasn't my call. That is, of course, to be commended, but at the same time you say, at least in the written reply, that the civil court cannot use the penalty payment as a means. In that sense, you'll say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u87	I fully understand Mrs Karimi in that she refers to my written reply, but I did not say in writing that the civil judge cannot impose a periodic penalty payment. I said I don't think it's gonna happen. I don't want to go in there. The civil court can use all kinds of resources. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u88	I am very pleased with this clarification. I'll sort it out in the written answer in a moment. In that you say literally: there can be a court of civil law, but the civil court must not impose a penalty. So I welcome the clarification that you are saying: no, that is not possible. I'll look it up for you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u89	I'll look it up myself. I can't imagine. I'm pretty sure it's right there. I imagine he won't, but that's different than not being allowed to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u90	Mrs. Karimi, third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u91	In fact, I think it goes too far to say that you can imagine it, but that aside. Could you perhaps come back to it in second term? If no penalty payment can be used, what are other means available to a civil court to enforce timely decisions at the IND?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u92	We can start thinking a lot about the civil judge. Let me make one thing clear, as I said in the House of Representatives: I am far from acting in the jurisdiction of any court, the civil court, the administrative court and the criminal court. I'm not going to do that at all. All I said was that there is that possibility. I'm not gonna go any further. What possibilities the civil court has, I do not think is relevant to determine whether the Temporary Law suspension periodic penalty payments is an effective means to solve the major problem the IND currently has. For the sake of completeness, we have mentioned that it could be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u93	We keep going round and round, because Mrs Karimi came back to something that was said just before, and I will return to something else that the Secretary of State said just before. That is a remark in the explanatory statement. In my contribution and in my questions, I said that my group was extremely disturbed, because we read that the fact that an asylum seeker is being sheltered means that he should not complain and it is very bad if he gets money because of a penalty payment. That's what it sounded like. The Secretary of State explains it and says: it has to do with the penalty payment not working. I am satisfied with that, but I would like to make the point that I continue to find it extremely unhappy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u94	But you don't have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u95	... and that I regret that it is in the explanatory statement. My question is whether the Secretary of State understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u96	I am glad that Mrs Huizinga says that, because then I can confirm that I find it unfortunate. Another point from Mrs Huizinga: why exclude an appeal to the administrative judge after one year? The exclusion of an appeal to the administrative judge is, as I said earlier, a genuine emergency measure. After a year, that profession is open again. Consequently, the possibilities for action of the administrative court are limited, as the final law will provide an appropriate incentive to promote timely decision-making. It is my explicit aim, but I have already said that this bill will enter into force soon. I have received a number of questions about discrimination and equal treatment, but I think I have actually responded to that. Mrs Karimi and Mrs Stienen spoke about the ruling of then Minister Donner and especially Minister Pechtold. They did not reject that inequality of law, provided that such an exception was properly substantiated. In the meantime, we are 14 years ahead and it has become clear that periodic penalty payments do not work in the case of applications for asylum. It is not a question of excluding a particular category of foreigners as such from the possibility of claiming a penalty payment. That would be discriminatory and it is not the intention. Not at all, not even far from it. Mrs Karimi asked a question about what a former member of the VVD Group in the House of Representatives said and what Minister Donner said at that time. At that time Minister Donner said that exceptions should lie in the nature of the decision-making process and not in the fact that it concerns foreigners because it has a discriminatory effect. The bill is in line with that. This legislative proposal excludes a certain category of decisions because the Law on periodic penalty payments is not effective and even counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u97	Another supplementary question from Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u98	I believe that the Secretary of State is shopping a little selectively in Mr Donner's argument at the time. If the law lays down a time limit for decision in this case, what is the argument for making an exception to the Foreigner's Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u99	I have here the relevant passage from the Acts of 26 April 2006, Second Chamber 764736. Minister Donner said at one point: "It means that it must not only be regulated as such with regard to the Aliens Act. The other areas to which the same arguments apply will also have to be considered. They will have to lie primarily in the nature of the decision-making process and not in the fact that it concerns foreigners, as there is a discriminatory element in it." This legislative proposal concerns the nature of the decision-making process, namely that it is not effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u100	This is really far-fetched. This was also the subject of my first interruption, and this is also at the heart of the discussion. If you think that a measure is not effective for the Aliens Act, then you should also check whether it is effective for other areas as well. Then you can take a decision in all these areas and say: the penalty payment will be abolished, including for the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u101	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u102	My question is: how can the Secretary of State interpret that so selectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u103	I understand that Mrs Karimi is asking that question again, but I think I have already given a broad answer to Mrs Vos. I said that it was clear that, in this case, periodic penalty payments were not effective in ensuring that decisions were taken in good time. That has nothing to do with the fact that they are foreigners, but that has to do with the fact that these periodic penalty payments have had no effect. So it's not about strangers. The point is that the measure is not effective in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u104	Mrs Karimi, I suggest that you return to it in your second term. I see you've registered for ten minutes, so you'll have ample opportunity. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u105	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna have to do with less. The Secretary of State has one mantra: periodic penalty payments do not work on asylum applications. That will also be the basis of its support for the final legislative proposal. Now there is a problem, and that is that the Council of State says: periodic penalty payments work in a well-functioning IND. Those periodic penalty payments did not work because the people at the IND could not go any faster than they could with the limited resources they had because they were cut off in 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u106	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u107	My question is: what does the Secretary of State expect in response to the final legislative proposal from the Council of State, if its justification is that periodic penalty payments do not work and the Council of State says they do work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u108	I can inform Mr Janssen that we really have an incentive in the final legislative proposal which we believe will work better than the periodic penalty payments. It is useful that there is such a stimulus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u109	No one is against an effective stimulus, but as long as we hang out here in the air what that effective stimulus should be... The Secretary of State keeps saying: I still have to work that out. But without a look at it, although it may still be in the answer to my questions, without any idea of what that incentive should be, I do not see why the Secretary of State is making it so difficult for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u110	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u111	So my question is: do we get an answer to the question of what is going to be this tremendously fantastic stimulus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u112	I am standing here today in this Chamber with the draft Temporary Law suspension periodic penalty payments IND. I have said that a final law is being worked out. The final law provides an incentive or incentives for timely performance by the IND. At the same time, hard work is being done to get the IND in order. Maybe that's something Mr. Janssen cares about, at least that's how I understood it. We do that by at least ensuring that the task force has eliminated those 14,000 cases by the end of the year. At the same time, work is being carried out on the structural improvement of the way things are going. That's about steering and planning. I would like to say the following. I also said it in the Lower House, but I am very convinced that all people working at the IND do so with great dedication and great commitment. Nevertheless, it is necessary to make improvements, as the Significant report also shows, in terms of steering and planning. But in the final bill, those incentives come. This temporary bill does not yet contain it, because the need is high.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u113	Mr Janssen with a third short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u114	A quick question. My question then is: why has the Secretary of State not come up with one bill instead of two, as she is doing now? Because the anticipatory effect of the legislative proposals is already casting its shadow. Why not with one bill? Now you say, "I'll suspend the periodic penalty payments for one year. In the meantime, we're gonna get the IND in order. So I am not talking about our desire to permanently abolish periodic penalty payments, because that is what is included in the final proposal." Why not just one clear, brief proposal to get things in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u115	The reason for doing so is because it is incredibly important to stop these periodic penalty payments as soon as possible. At the moment, the problems for the IND are incredibly great. A great deal must be done to ensure that the procedures for periodic penalty payments are properly followed. At the same time, we are working to ensure that the 14,000 cases, which are not all subject to penalty payments but a large part of them, are resolved before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u116	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u117	Mrs Karimi wondered if I could refer the law to the College of Human Rights. The legislative proposal, which will finally provide for the abolition of periodic penalty payments, will be brought into consultation with several bodies. The College of Human Rights will then also be able to decide on the proposal. That is certainly going to happen. Then I have a few more questions about the task force issue. I have already mentioned it, but I think it is good to go into it. Mrs Karimi asked me: we have not yet seen the beginning of an approach to mismanagement at the IND, so when is it coming? Significant researchers conclude that operational guidance on the implementation of the asylum procedure is inadequate. In addition, there is no clear planning. I've already talked about it. I have been working on an improvement path across the full width at the IND, with the recommendations of Significant leading. But you should also realise that an improvement of this size has a major impact on the organisation. I told you, employees of the IND are very knowledgeable and very dedicated. Then it is particularly difficult to make sure that we change a certain method with that improvement process. However, in order to achieve this improvement process, the IND's leadership was extended to include a Deputy Chief Executive on 1 May 2020. In the portfolio distribution between the Chief Executive and the Deputy Chief Executive, the Deputy Chief Executive has been instructed to implement the recommendations proposed by Significant. For the short term, for those 14,000 cases that I have already mentioned a few times, I have set up a task force which has been instructed to eliminate the delays in the IND and to reduce the size of the periodic penalty payments. The task force's aim is to dispose of this allocated stock by the end of the year. Mrs Karimi also raised the question of how to ensure that the legal deadline is met at the IND. The task force has made preparations to get rid of the......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because that task force does so, the IND can concentrate fully on handling and deciding on new applications since 1 April of this year, within the legal deadline of six months. Mrs Karimi also asked why the alarm bells concerning the periodic penalty payments did not go off in 2018. As a result of the accumulated lead times, in particular on track 4, the IND has been increasingly confronted since 2019 with defaults and appeals in non-time decisions leading to periodic penalty payments. A longer lead time means that it takes longer for cases to be dealt with, thus increasing on average the periodic penalty payments paid. It was only in autumn 2019 that a larger number of asylum applicants called for notice of formal notice and for appeals in cases of non-timely decision. The scale of the issue was then estimated at 6.6 million for 2019 and 17 million for 2020, but at the year-end 2019 the issue proved to be many, many times larger than previously assumed. Immediately, I set up a task force to deal with the delays in the IND and to contain the periodic penalty payments. The moment the signal came, I set up the task force. Ms Karimi asked why the Secretary of State spoke about an increase in the number of asylum applications, now that the total number of applications has fallen slightly since 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u118	I notice that the Secretary of State says that in autumn 2019 it became clear that there were already millions of periodic penalty payments. Then the PVV group in the Lower House already tabled a motion to call for a halt to those periodic penalty payments. That motion dissuaded the Secretary of State at the time. Now the Secretary of State says that the spring report in February 2020 showed that the number was many times higher. If your argument is that periodic penalty payments do not work, regardless of the amount, then it was clear in autumn 2019 that the effectiveness of periodic penalty payments is simply not there? Then you could have said: we will stop, because this is not an effective means? It was only when the amount of the money increased that there was intervention. Why not before?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u119	I must agree with Mr Van Hattem: the PVV has seen it before me. I was hoping, or still thought, in the autumn that I could manage to keep things within limits, but that was not the case. In February it turned out to be different. But I would like to admit that to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u120	Good to hear, and at least good to hear that this law is now there, because better in half than in complete error.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u121	I was working on the number of asylum applications mentioned by Mrs Karimi. In 2017 31.327, in 2018 30.380 and in 2019 29.435. That includes the after-travel requests. The delays encountered, the problem to which this legislative proposal provides a solution, are, as has already been said, caused, inter alia, by the increase in the number of asylum applications other than after-travel. Asylum applications are very real. Just when you have to think about whether or not someone is entitled to it, it is difficult to argue a rejection and to be sure that you are making a good decision on that point. It's tough decisions, and they just take more time. When we look at the total number of first and subsequent asylum applications, except after-travel, we see the following picture: 16,840 in 2017, 23,910 in 2018 and even 25,250 in 2019. That is why I am talking about an increase in the number of applications. Compared to 2017, not only the total number of asylum applications has increased, but also the number of asylum applications has decreased from 30% to 20%. This means not only absolute, but also relatively much more negative decisions, which take a lot of time. Mrs Karimi asked if I would be willing to inform the First Chamber of the progress of the task force. Others have also raised this issue. I undertook to inform the Chamber about the progress of the task force, shortly after the summer recess, shortly before the end of November and before the end of the year, at the note meeting of 3 June last in the House of Representatives. I am, of course, very willing to inform your Chamber about this. Once the plan of approach for the implementation of the measures is significantly ready, it will be sent to both the Second and the First Chambers. Mr Janssen asked when the IND had decided that payment of periodic penalty payments would be more economically efficient than putting things in order. Such a decision has never been made. In 2019, the IND faced an increasing number of asylum applications that went beyond the legal deadline. As a result, it was no longer possible to take these matters off as a matter of priority. The size of the number of cases became too large and the planning could no longer be adapted to this. When the scale of the problem became known to me, I announced an independent investigation. That's Significant's investigation. When I found out in February that huge sums of periodic penalty payments were being paid, I set up a task force. It is the task force's aim to complete the task assigned to him by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u122	Mr Janssen has a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u123	Has it been considered in the Cabinet to make it clear that resolving these problems within its own budget would only lead to higher periodic penalty payments and thus to spending money that could be used in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u124	No, it hasn't been talked about that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u125	This therefore means that it had to be resolved within the closed system of the Ministry and that there were no means at that time to arrange an additional commitment at the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u126	The amounts of periodic penalty payments are settled, paid, within the Ministry with money from the COA and the IND reserves and so on. In the second term, I can give you an exact state where the money comes from. Mr Janssen also asked whether the expenditure that is now being spent on the IND as a structural... I just said that. The money is found within Article 37 of the Justice and Security budget. Do I recognize that the IND has structural problems? There is no structural problem with the IND. There was an early scaling-down of staff in 2017 and a slightly increased inflow in 2018. Moreover, there was a financing system that did not go beyond the short term. The existing working stock was not sufficiently taken into account. This early scaling also created a problem for adequately trained staff. This led to an increase in the lead times at the IND in 2018 and 2019. A larger number of decisions are now being taken in the general and extended asylum procedure outside the legal deadline. As a result, there is an increasing number of defaults and appeals in the event of a failure to take a decision in time and which lead to periodic penalty payments. That's why I set the tasforce. Then Mrs Stienen had another question about the decision-making period, which was extended by six months with a view to covid. When will the Secretary of State bring that decision back? And what does this decision mean for those cases where the six-month decision period had already been reached? The six-month extension shall be valid for a defined period and thus also for a demarcated group. It is therefore not necessary to discontinue this extension with a decision in the Official Journal. The extension of the legal decision-making period for asylum matters began at the time of the entry into force of the Foreigner's Circular Amendment Decision, which was on 20 May last. This has been done as a result of what the European Commission has presented to us because of COOVID-19, and not only the Netherlands but all the Member States. The extension of the decision-making period applies only to those cases where the legal decision-making period has not yet expired at the time of entry into force of the Foreigner's Order of Amendment, namely 20 May last. So the cases where the six-month decision period had already expired on 20 May are excluded. This does not include applications submitted after 20 May. For this purpose, the normal six-month decision period does not apply, i.e. an extension. Mr Jansen asked me to explain briefly how I am implementing the KPMG and Significant reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u127	Mrs Stienen has another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u128	Just to clarify, Mr. President. Can the Secretary of State also tell us when this extension, which has been taken under European legislation, will continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u129	November 2nd, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u130	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u131	Mrs Stienen asked how many cases have really fallen behind, how many cases have gone beyond the decision-making period and so on. How many cases has the IND been failed in? Some 800 cases were discussed earlier... No, about 8,900 cases. Then it became 1,500 cases and then 40,000 cases. No, 14,000 cases! We're confused. How many cases are we talking about? I hope I understood it so well, Mr. Chairman. The backlog in cases is over 14,000. These matters have been assigned to the task force and it is the task force's aim that these matters have been completed by the end of this year. I've just explained that. In 2019 and 2020, the IND has been defaulted over 8,000 times. And for that notice of default there is a penalty payment of €1.425. That's a fixed amount. There are currently about 1,500 open cases in which the court has not ruled that the action is well founded in time, but in which in the IND it has not decided within the time limit imposed by the court. That's $100 a day and so on. In those cases, the penalty payment imposed by the court is often €100 per day per case. These numbers currently add about 1 million euros per week to the periodic penalty payments to be paid and that is 7 days times €100 times 1,500 cases is €1,000,050 per week. Let me now turn to the question of financial cover. I have just promised an answer to that question. The financial coverage for the periodic penalty payments falls within Article 37 of the Justice and Security budget. The Nidos 2019 settlement for periodic penalty payments is €2.510.000 and the COA 2019 statement is €1.396.000. Own funds COA €22,794,000, own funds IND €26,500,000, cover periodic penalty payments asylum reserve €12,200,000. That gives a total of €65.400,000. Mrs Huizinga asked if it was true that the temporary law ends after a year plus the lead time of the final bill. It's true it ends after a year. If a proposal for the final law is submitted in good time, the temporary law will continue to apply in order to allow for the parliamentary examination of the final law. And I'm going to make a proposal in good time, because I've already said several times that I'm going to take that forward. I therefore hope to be able to submit the law to the House of Representatives at the beginning of November. I can assure you that it will not be up to me, nor will it be up to those who may be in this place, so it will not be up to the cabinet to delay. It'll be in parliament's hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u132	Secretary of State, I'll take a look at the time. How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u133	I'm practically through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u134	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u135	Mrs Vos had the question of whether there is anything to alleviate the suffering of the waiting people, for example relevant courses that cost the government money and which can therefore also be an incentive to decide on time. As I have indicated, I will also pay attention to incentives in the final law that replace a penalty payment. Indeed, in the past more opportunities have been created for Dutch lessons for promising asylum seekers. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Vos for this suggestion, which is a positive suggestion, but I do not want to anticipate it under the temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u136	It wasn't about the temporary law. It would be nice if there were some mention of this in the temporary law, but I do not think that is the case. In the House of Representatives, a motion was tabled by the D66 Group and adopted. It's about courses now. On the contrary, my question had a relationship with the law that is now before us, so that from now on, apart from incentives and such things, the waiting time of asylum seekers can be used usefully by offering equal courses. That's what it's about, not about the law you're gonna come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u137	Thank you for the clarification by Mrs Vos. We are busy with the flexible asylum chain programme, precisely in order to try to place as many promising asylum seekers as possible, if possible, in the region where they can then be established. Indeed, they are promising asylum seekers, and they also offer language lessons and other opportunities, in order to make it easier for them to integrate into society afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u138	I understand that, but the point is that it is also the whole cause of all the delays and the problems that the IND is having that it is difficult to determine who is likely to be and who is not. The investigation of refugee workers, among other things, shows that waiting and not knowing how long you have to wait also before the non-opportunities of asylum seekers are so inconvenient. The question is whether, even before you know who is likely to be and who isn't likely to be, you can still spend that time usefully. A course in English or a course in programming also gives you something when you are sent back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u139	I understand the point very well. I hope I can satisfy Mrs Vos by saying that we hope to have dealt with the 14 000 at the end of the year. That's very important. Then I am also working on it, and there is a lot of work being done on it, so that everyone who has been invaded from 1 April has the six-month deadline for decision-making, so that everyone knows as soon as possible whether they have the opportunity to stay in the Netherlands or that they have to leave. Long wait and can't do anything: no, if the IND decides as soon as possible according to the rules that are before it, we can quickly ensure that the wealthy can get to work and that those who have been told that they can't stay in the Netherlands go back to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u140	Mrs. Fox, third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u141	What we are discussing today is what Mr Karimi and Mr Karimi have said very well: it is precisely that it is taking so long. So now we're removing a stimulus, which we don't agree with whether or not it worked and whether or not the IND is in order. It's the other thing that matters to me. It's about how it is from the position of the asylum seeker, regardless of what's going to happen to the IND, that we use that time usefully and that, apart from what we're discussing here, we're going to offer people a course, so they don't have to waste their time waiting purposelessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u142	I didn't make myself clear after all. Again, with that stock of 14,000 I hope to be ready in a few months or at the end of the year, that it is resolved. I'd like to get rid of that. But those who came in from April 1st will be told as soon as possible whether it is yes or no, if I may put it very simply. Once the answer is yes, there is a lot of work on courses, on language, on everything. Those who have been told no are informed as soon as possible that they must return to the country of origin and so on. At that time, a language course does not make sense. We try to do it quickly within the time limit and thus give everyone clarity as quickly as possible, so that there I give Mrs Vos absolutely right. They don't have to wait endlessly: when do I hear what, when will something happen and I can't do anything. No, if it's okay, you'll know what you're up to within six months. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u143	Thank you. We now have the second term of office and I give the floor to Mrs Karimi...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u144	I had a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u145	Only a supplementary question, because your response belongs in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u146	I had asked a question as to whether it would be possible for citizens to check the law against the ECHR. I mean, can that be requested from a civil court for a statement of rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u147	I think I will answer that question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u148	Thank you. I call Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u149	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I have to say that at some point it was really hard to follow what really caused the problem. At some point, the Secretary of State outlined an image that made you think that all the problems at the IND were actually caused by periodic penalty payments, but I don't think they are. That is my first observation. The second is the mantra that the Secretary of State constantly used in the reply: periodic penalty payments, it does not work, it is not effective and therefore it must be abolished. When answering the question I asked why no alarm bells went off in 2018, I heard the Secretary of State say: because in 2018 the periodic penalty payments did not give any reason to think that they would be large amounts. It was only at the conclusion of 2019 that the large amounts were seen. The conclusion I'm drawing is that I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State, and that there was actually no indicator, no other way to establish that the lead times were long. If those high amounts of periodic penalty payments had not been identified as a major problem, the State Secretary would probably still not have determined that the lead times are too long. This means that the periodic penalty payments have actually been the indicator for determining the long lead times. Extremely effective, I'd like to say. That observation is important because the question is whether the abolition of periodic penalty payments, especially as the Secretary of State envisages in a final legislative proposal for the entire Foreigner's Act, is discriminatory, yes or no. Of course, we disagree on this. I don't think the justification is right. You say it hasn't been effective and it doesn't work, but you can't back that up. The same may also apply to other sectors, i.e. not just this sector. When it is abolished only for this sector and not for other sectors, you make a difference. In fact, you make a difference between people who do have Dutch nationality and people who do not have Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u150	Mrs. Adriaansens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u151	Mrs. Karimi, you told a long story...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u152	No, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u153	Thank you. It's a bit later, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? I would like to ask Mrs Karimi the open question as to whether she can imagine that there are indicators other than the penalty payment to monitor the duration of the lead time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u154	I can certainly imagine that. In an organization that is in order, you can very well formulate indicators on the basis of which you can follow what is happening in your organisation. But in Significant's research, we have seen that the IND has no idea of the productivity per employee, per location, of the lead times for different categories. There's a lot of trouble there. The only indicator that worked at the IND is the penalty payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u155	Mrs Adriaansens, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u156	The second question follows on from that. I have heard the Secretary of State say that with the deployment of the task force the delays are expected to be eliminated by the end of the year. Is Mrs Karimi confident that we have the right approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u157	That is a very good question, because it will enable me to bridge my next point, namely the added value of this bill. If the measures are going to work, I sincerely hope that they will work if the task force starts working and the rest of the applications are all being dealt with in good time, then the question is why you really need this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u158	Mrs. Adriaansens, third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u159	Then there's my third and final question. Mrs Karimi often says that there could be discrimination. Discrimination, I think, is treating equal people unequally. It's against the law. You also have to look at the justification. In my view, we are not talking about discrimination so much as about whether we respect the justification. If you agree with me, I would ask Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u160	That's right. That was also the discussion in 2006. Can you make a difference in principle? Yeah, you can fix that. The Aliens Act in itself treats the stranger differently from the Dutch. The point is indeed: are you treated equally or unequally in equal situations? Administrative law should apply to all residing in the Netherlands. Then it shouldn't make any difference if you're a Dutch national or a foreigner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u161	Mrs Karimi is now throwing it all at discrimination, but we are talking about equal treatment. A person who comes here as a foreigner to apply for asylum has a very different position than a person who is a Dutch citizen, to which certain rights and duties are attached.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u162	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u163	Do you see that Dutch people are discriminated against in relation to asylum seekers, where, for example, asylum seekers receive free health care and the Dutch do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u164	I suggest we stick to the bill a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u165	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u166	Mrs Karimi would therefore have a very selective view of when there would be discrimination and when there would be no discrimination. In your view, therefore, Dutch people are not discriminated against, and only if foreigners are discriminated against, there is discrimination. So it's double standards, what Mrs Karimi does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u167	Mrs Karimi, please continue your speech if you wish. Let's get back to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u168	Since the Foreigner's Act includes certain mines, the government must also respect these mines. At a time when other laws also apply that you have to respect decision-making mines and there should be periodic penalty payments if you do not do so, that should also apply here. Then there is the issue of the added value of this temporary law, which is really not temporary, as I just argued in the debate on the interruption. The question is also why, if you really see that problem that you need to put the matter in order, you have not opted for a truly temporary law which merely suspends the periodic penalty payments and does not link it to a definitive law. This has been mentioned earlier by colleagues. Mr. Chairman. All in all, I will advise the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u169	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mrs Vos on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers, although I must say that they are unsatisfactory in a number of areas. You didn't answer two of my questions. Like the colleague of the SP and other colleagues, I have asked whether there is now an idea, a beginning of an idea, about what is an appropriate incentive and, if so, whether there is a behavioral scientific basis for it. If the Secretary of State says that in three months' time there will be a fantastic law with an appropriate incentive, but if there has not even been an attempt to give an answer to that, then what and in what direction? My group has some concerns. So I would like to hear some key words or key words from the Secretary of State about where that incentive is going and what we should think about. If there's no idea yet, the Secretary of State may say so, but at least we know it. Then we have a few months to think about that. I had also asked what other Member States would actually do if they did not reach the deadline. That was my last question on how they deal with Article 31 of the Procedural Directive. As far as the waiting times of asylum seekers are concerned, I am concerned that the D66 motion was interpreted fairly narrowly in the House of Representatives. That is just what you said in your reply: it is only about promising asylum seekers. The problem is that at the beginning we do not know who is likely to be or not likely to be, and that is where the overload of the IND comes from. If we move into the asylum seeker who sits there waiting and doesn't even know how long to wait... That terrible period, when you're supposed to spill your precious time as a human being, you don't give anyone. That is also what my request was for: let us make sure that these people have something to do and get a course, whether it is English or, if they think they are promising, Dutch. Also within ICT, there are quite a lot of courses in areas where there is a great need for expertise, whether programming or simply troubleshooting or algorithms. There's plenty to do. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Vos and Mr Karimi tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas training for asylum seekers, whether they are allowed to stay in the Netherlands or to return to the country of origin;]] [[Whereas courses in English or Dutch and ICT are always useful;]] [[invites the Government to offer courses to the applicant within one month of the application for asylum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35476-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u172	I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u173	Mr President, thank you. "There are no American tanks in Baghdad." I can still hear Mohammed Said say al-Sahaf on TV, while the tanks drove right behind him. And there's no structural problem with the IND. I'll come back to this at the end. I did not get an answer in the event of interruption to the question to the Secretary of State why the Secretary of State and the Cabinet made it so difficult not to opt for a single draft law that does not immediately build on post-policy policy. Because the Secretary of State is making policy after this bill, while she has to solve a problem in concrete terms. She's trying to do that in one piece. I think everything would have been much simpler if there had just been a single proposal: this is out of control; I need a year to solve it; give me the time and then at the end of those things are gone; next year it's in order and then we can move on, then we can move on. Because the Secretary of State's mantra that periodic penalty payments do not work on asylum applications is in any case not shared by the Council of State. And let's just say that's the one who's gonna have to go back to advising on the new bill. In doing so, the Secretary of State is on a legal thin ice, with a wake in mind. Mr. Chairman. There is a budget of 64 million. The Secretary of State has broken it down and read it all. That sounds a lot, but as a former deputy responsible for youth care for decentralisation, this gives me the feeling: this sounds like a lot of money, but if you get 64 million and you need 75, you're 11 million short. Well, that's a problem. So the number itself doesn't tell me that much. It's a question of whether it's enough. Mr. Chairman. We have concerns anyway. I have just mentioned the Council of State, which says that it does not share the view that a penalty payment could not work. It says: it could work well with an IND in order. In any case, we are very concerned about setting aside the Council of State's opinions. That is also very painful in this legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Let me close by going back to: no structural problem. The Secretary of State himself said that there was too fast a scale in 2016 and 2017 and with the knowledge of now et cetera. If there is no structural problem then, I will end with the observation that, at least from 2016, there was a structural lack of insight and anticipating ability to see the problems that would arise. And in my opinion, governance is still forward-looking. Whether that lack of insight was with the IND or with the cabinet, I leave it here in the middle. But all things considered: now that there is no single legislative proposal, but is being embroidered without any insight into what the follow-up should be, I can only advise my group to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u174	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the Secretary of State for the first-term response. I still had two unanswered questions. In the first period, I asked about the deployment of IND staff abroad. To what extent would it not be much more effective to use them in the Netherlands to eliminate deficits here? And why is there pressure from the European legal obligations, while the written response also shows that there is absolutely no picture of how this is enforced in other EU Member States? We are now running very fast here in the Netherlands to pay periodic penalty payments and to take action, but other EU countries seem to have arranged it differently or not. So why the hard European legal obligations? Is this even maintained from within the EU? Mr. Chairman. Then I have two additional questions. I heard the Secretary of State say in the first place that there was EUR 70 million. Later I heard that the total penalty payments would cost some EUR 65 million. But in the explanatory memorandum, dated 2 June, there was still talk of EUR 30 to 40 million. My question to the Secretary of State is: how is it that in such a short period of time there are such large differences, what are they based on? And yes, how is it that there is so much difference between the two amounts? Another question on page 19 of the note on the report. It says, "The IND is trying to speed things up where a penalty is still outstanding." I would like to ask the Secretary of State very specifically: can the Secretary of State rule out the fact that, as a result of accelerated execution, permits are easier or are granted to asylum seekers? We really need to get that out of the way. Mr President, so far in the second term. And the PVV Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u176	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mrs Stienen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u177	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. We just do not think that everything has been cleared up yet. On the one hand, we can imagine everything about the difficult situation in which the IND is now in. How do you proceed as quickly and as carefully as possible in a time of restructuring all problems at the IND? We hope that all measures and improvements will indeed lead to a stable IND, which will enable timely decisions to be taken on asylum applications as soon as possible. In my group's view, these delays are mainly due to cuts, lack of decision-making capacity and so on in the IND, as we have seen in the two different reports, and not primarily to the periodic penalty payments. However, my group sees that the increasing pressure on the periodic penalty payments increases the difficult situation of the IND at the moment, so we can imagine something about the temporary suspension of these periodic penalty payments. Only my group finds it difficult that this suspension also leads to the temporary abolition of the appeal to the administrative judge for asylum seekers in the absence of a timely decision in their case. Finally, the government has not made it more clear what the consequences are of a proposal that replaces temporaryity for a permanent scheme, because there are various variations in the treatment and outcome of such a legislative process. Mr. Chairman. I will discuss the final weighing with the other members of my group tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u178	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. Finally, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa of the Christian Union Group will have the floor during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u179	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I shall leave it to a single observation. The Secretary of State's point of departure is: the penalty payment does not work, as the Secretary of State says otherwise the periodic penalty payments would not have taken such an enormous flight; that is proof that the penalty payment does not work. Firstly, I have already said in the first term that my group is looking at it differently. My group believes that there are other reasons why these periodic penalty payments have been incurred, namely inability at the IND to decide on time for all kinds of reasons. This debate has not been able to resolve that contradiction between the Secretary of State and my group. Nevertheless, I have already said in the first term that my group will support the temporary law to suspend these periodic penalty payments, in order to give the Secretary of State time to put things in order with the IND. The Secretary of State has promised to send the implementation of the improvement plans to the Chambers. My question is whether the Secretary of State also wishes to inform the Chamber periodically about the situation and the progress of the IND. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u181	Mr President, thank you. And thanks to the members for their second term input. Mrs Karimi has said that I have kept a mantra, namely that the periodic penalty payments are not effective. It wasn't meant to be a mantra, but that's the bottom line. Mrs Karimi also said that there was apparently no indicator that the lead times were long. Then what happened? Still, there was clarity about it. Because the Spring Paper 2019 found... At that time my predecessor was still present at this position. Then the House of Representatives ensured that more money has been made available for the IND and that the financing of the IND has become more stable. That funding fluctuated very much. It was then found that work had to be done on the lead times, that these lead times were not good and that this could be solved with that extra money. However, in November it appeared that some money was due to periodic penalty payments. I told you. That turned out to have risen to improbable heights in February. So to say that there was no indicator that the lead times were long... That indicator was there. This has led the House of Representatives to ensure more stable funding, also thanks to a motion in the House of Representatives of a party member of Mrs Karimi, Mr Van Ojik, together with Mr Jasper van Dijk. Then Mrs Karimi also pointed out that I have not properly substantiated that periodic penalty payments do not work. She said it was discrimination, because they are only abolished in the case of asylum and not in other subjects. I think I have already done enough in the first period, at least I have tried very hard to say that there is no discrimination. What is at issue is that the amounts for the periodic penalty payments at the IND are so large, huge. We're talking about huge amounts of money. That's exceptional. There is no government situation where such amounts are at issue. The issue is not that it is about the foreigner, about asylum, and that there is discrimination. The point is that the means of penalty payments, in order to ensure that government decisions are made more quickly and in time, have not worked. We're running out of time with this huge delay. It didn't come into being for nothing. If the periodic penalty payments had indeed been effective, with all the problems of the IND, we would never have been dealing with 14,000 cases. There are major problems with this, because they have largely fallen into the periodic penalty payments. It just didn't work. Mrs Karimi also asked: the task force is going to work, so why do you still need this law? We need this law because I believe that periodic penalty payments do not work in the asylum domain. If tomorrow there is an enormous influx of asylum seekers... This could happen if the external borders of the European Union were to reopen completely, as would internal borders. They're open by now. The number of asylum seekers has increased, doubled since April, but has not reached the level before March. If that happens, we won't be able to handle it. Then periodic penalty payments absolutely do not work to get it done. So that's where the periodic penalty payments don't work. Others have said something about it. That is exactly the same answer. Mrs Karimi also owed me an answer on the explanation of rights. Can the citizen ask the judge whether or not the law is contrary to the ECHR and will he be given an explanation of rights? Both the civil court and the administrative judge can assess the law in the assessment of cases against any binding interest in treaties. He will then give an opinion on this in his judgment or judgment. In that sense, there is an explanation for the right. Mrs Vos said that I have not yet answered the questions about the incentive. That's right. I had that package somewhere on the bottom. In particular, Mrs Vos is concerned that there should be a behavioural scientific basis for any incentive. Whatever the incentive, it is about behavioral scientific support. The point is that a government body should be given an incentive to decide in good time. To what extent this should be based on behavioural scientific evidence, I cannot fully assess it, but it is a matter of the government body deciding in good time. Timely decision-making indeed means that you might be able to be part of it..... should show monthly whether the government is on time with the applications that have been submitted and the like. In this way, you can show that the government does not fulfil the duty it has and that it therefore needs to be performed. This is just an example, but that is my answer to Mrs Vos' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u182	I notice that the Secretary of State is quite fond of the word "behavioral science." It is up to me, and I think my fellow Members too, whether there is any idea at all as to what kind of incentive it should be. I like when things are still a bit researched, but the main question is: is there an idea about the stimulus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u183	Mrs Vos may regret that I have to say unfortunately, but we are busy working that out. We want to work on an effective stimulus. I would ask the Chamber to give me a moment to work out that incentive and to give me enough room for manoeuvre in this work. That is why I do not want to anticipate it now. In any case, I would personally see it as an incentive, which is a part of much more..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It'll clear up where we stand every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u184	That doesn't work at my house, at the dishwasher: every month it shows that it's outside again. I therefore note that the government has no idea what that incentive should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u185	I really have to put it down, because it is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u186	Does the Secretary of State agree with Mr Pechtold that there should be incentives at three levels? One is at organizational level. It has to be in order. So that's what you're doing right now. The second is: through all kinds of reports, from the National Ombudsman, from the General Court of Auditors and from other outsiders who express an opinion. The third is that the individual citizen should have an instrument in his hands to hold the organisation to the decision-makers. Do you intend to come forward with a proposal at all three levels?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u187	May I ask to focus on the current bill in the response? That is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u188	In particular, it is a question of the incentive. I hope I have sufficiently convinced Mrs Karimi that I am working hard to get the organisation in order. That's incredibly important. The whole organization stands or falls with that. So it's really very important. As regards the nature of the incentive, it is an incentive that gives the person who comes here to the Netherlands with a request for asylum a timely decision. That is the only thing that matters, that it gets a decision in time. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u189	I get that. I think everyone agrees on that. That's the law. You say you'll abide by the law. My question about these incentives is whether the individual asylum seeker has an instrument to hold you and the IND responsible for a timely decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u190	When I talk about an incentive for the IND to ensure that an asylum seeker gets a decision in time, it is for the benefit of the asylum seeker. I do not quite understand what Mrs Karimi means by saying that the asylum seeker has an instrument in her hands. That depends on the type of incentive we formulate. The aim is to ensure that the asylum seeker receives a decision in good time, and that there is an incentive to ensure that the asylum seeker receives that decision in good time in accordance with existing laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u191	Mover Karimi, the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u192	The laws and regulations prescribe these periodic penalty payments and you want to abolish them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u193	In six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u194	That's what you want to abolish. That is your intention. My question is whether the incentive to do so also confers an individual right on the applicant to raise the decision-making period and to appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u195	At the risk of being accused of a mantra again, we are thinking very hard about the effects of what kind of incentive it should be. A very good incentive would be to ensure that the IND makes timely decisions. This is for the benefit of the asylum seeker. That is what it is about, that the asylum seeker knows in good time where it is going, so whether or not it gets a permit. They're working on it. We hope to come up with a good proposal for that. Feeder has been asked how other Member States deal with decisions. In the House of Representatives, at the request of the members of the SGP Group, I undertook to take stock of how other Member States will promote timely decision-making. That is also what I am going to involve in the drafting of the proposal for the final law. That's what we can learn from. Maybe there are fantastic ideas that we don't know and that can help us enormously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u196	My group would appreciate it if you could include in that inventory what the temporary extension of the decision-making period in the Netherlands and in other EU Member States has had to do with the treatment of asylum matters. Maybe we can learn from other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u197	Then we also have to look at how that went exactly. The decision-making period may be extended by nine months. In the Netherlands, we have decided on a period of six months, because I think it is important that we take decisions quickly. So then I have to look at where it's nine months, eight months or seven months. I would like to say to Mrs Stienen that, as far as possible and as far as we can, we are going to see what the differences are. We'll see what we can do. I promise we'll do our best to do that. Mr Janssen asked: why did you make it so difficult? He also asked whether the 65 million would be sufficient. So far, 30 to 40 million have been spent on periodic penalty payments in 2020. We expect it to be a maximum of 65 million, so we think that is enough. But that's an estimate, because we have the $1 million a week, like I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u198	Mr Janssen has a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u199	Yeah, because if we don't, we're gonna get a misunderstanding. My question was about something else. In my view, the Secretary of State mentioned very accurately the budget headings that fell within the budget. In doing so, she added 64 million. That wasn't about the periodic penalty payments. My comment was: 64 million, added for IND, COA et cetera, sounds a lot, but is that enough? Because I think that was the list she mentioned. That counted to 64 million. That wasn't about the periodic penalty payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u200	Maybe that's a misunderstanding after all. That may be up to me, but I mentioned the 65 million as the amount to cover the 65 million in feared periodic penalty payments. It's not the IND's budget. It is many, many, many times bigger than that. It concerns the coverage of periodic penalty payments. Mr Van Hattem asked how they are doing in other Member States. I just answered that. I have done the same with regard to the 30 to 40 million and the difference with the 70 million. Mr Van Hattem has also said that we must not take this off more quickly. The answer is: that will not happen to us. I also said at the beginning of my speech that care is paramount. It continues to stand first, but accelerated take-off is an option instead of leaving it on the pile, where it then remains endlessly. Therefore, care is taken. All decisions are taken by the IND. The hearing is taken away by the IND. It's not like people are thinking now: oh, we'll just approve of this piece of paper. That's not how it works. That is certainly not the case. Then I come to Mrs Huizinga. She said something about Significant. I thought she noticed that. If I don't, I don't have anything to say! It was about periodic progress in relation to Significant: not only occasionally tell how things are, but also periodically. I admit that we will do so as much as we can, but you should not expect me to send you a message every week. But at regular intervals we do, because, of course, we need to show how progress is being made. I am very willing to do so, because it is simply important that your Chamber should also be able to keep its finger on the pulse in terms of progress. Finally, Mrs Vos' motion, with letter D. That motion is about taking courses for every asylum seeker, whether it is viable or not. She asks to offer a course within a month of arrival in the Netherlands, whether that is ICT or Dutch or English. I regret to say that I find the proposal too general. With regard to promising asylum seekers, opportunities are already being considered for linking asylum seekers to a municipality where there are opportunities in the labour market. That's gotta be customization. It can't be a hard rule that a wide range of courses is open after a month. With regard to asylum seekers who have little chance, the Cabinet considers it undesirable to invest in a course or training after one month, because the aim is to return quickly. In addition, the standard provision of training and courses can have an auspicious effect. We don't think that's a good idea either. I therefore advise against the motion. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u201	I have a few more questions that haven't been answered. I had asked another question about the IND staff deployed abroad. How does this relate to the shortage of staff in the Netherlands? Another point is the European legal obligation. It is not just about what other Member States are doing, but also about the extent to which this European legal obligation is actually imposed on the Netherlands. Or is it merely an assumption that there is a European legal obligation to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u202	First of all, as far as employees abroad are concerned. Within the framework of the common asylum policy in Europe with all Member States, regular requests are made, particularly in the Greek situation, to make people available to help. In this context, the Netherlands is helping in the wider context of European asylum policy. It is not the intention to bring these people back to the Netherlands, because it is very important that, for example, identification, registration and the asylum process can go well in Greece and that experts from the IND, who are very expert in this area, are used. They are also from other Member States. It's not just the Dutch, it's definitely not. All Member States provide as much assistance as possible to help there. So that's not a solution. As far as European legal obligations are concerned, we are bound by the right of asylum in Europe. This means that we are bound, for example, by the Procedural Directive, the Qualification Directive and the Return Directive. That is European legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u203	These directives may be there, but the question is to what extent the Netherlands is not too far ahead and ahead in complying with them, especially in relation to other countries, because we apparently do not even know what they are doing with them. The second point is this. You say: we put the IND staff abroad, but in the meantime, the periodic penalty payments have continued to increase. Wouldn't it have been much wiser at this stage to put those people in the Netherlands anyway, to make sure that our tax-paying citizens are faced with coughing up those high periodic penalty payments, while those IND employees are working together abroad, but they are more needed here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u204	I think I have just answered that question. As far as European legislation is concerned, at least on one point we have not complied with, namely the lead times at the IND. The European rules write for six months, but there are people waiting endlessly. So in that respect, we are a little less sacred and predestined than Mr Van Hattem assumes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u205	The question I asked in the event of interruption and in the second term was whether the Secretary of State did not make it very difficult for himself to combine new policies with the solution-oriented legislative proposal that she has now come up with. She started an answer with a deep sigh and a puff and then she went to the numbers. But perhaps she would like to explain whether she shares the view that it might have been easier to come up with a single legislative proposal, only on this part, without prejudging new policies, for example, for abolishing the penalty payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u206	Mr Janssen's question is not entirely clear. What I have now come up with is a temporary law to deal with the problem of periodic penalty payments as quickly as possible. We're talking about huge amounts of money that we've lost. At the same time, I said: I want a definitive law to abolish the periodic penalty payments. Mr Janssen cannot agree with that, but that is the intention. I am working hard on this, but I did not want to wait for it and therefore submit the temporary law, because the problems are too great. That is why we first have the temporary law and then I come forward with the final law to abolish the periodic penalty payments as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u207	But there's a-on-a-link, if only the beginning and the end. Not so much the beginning as the end. A kind of open end has been created that builds on the final legislative proposal that is yet to come. My question is: wouldn't it have been much easier to... It's kind of the cow and the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u208	The chicken and the egg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u209	The tail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u210	The cow and the tail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u211	The chicken and the egg!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u212	The head and the tail. But an open end at the tail of a cow is another less attractive prospect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u213	As long as this gets right in the Acts, it's all gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u214	So it wouldn't have been easier to just say, "There's a starting period and a final term. In that year we are going to put things right, and in the meantime I will come up with another legislative proposal to regulate the policy of completely abolishing periodic penalty payments in a good way"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u215	It is true that this temporary law has a term of one year. If no final law is submitted during that period, the temporary law shall expire after that year. Then we'll go back to the old situation. If a legislative proposal is submitted during that period of one year and that bill is subsequently withdrawn or rejected in one of the two Chambers of the States-General or is adopted in both Chambers, then the temporary law will also lapse. I'll submit the final law swiftly. There may be a few months between the end of the year of the temporary law and the entry into force of the final law. In order to avoid this, the regulation in this bill has been adopted as it has been and has not been chosen for a hard end date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u216	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-6.u217	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill tomorrow at the end of the sitting. I also propose that we vote on the motion tabled. I shall suspend the sitting for the night until 9.30 a.m. on 7 July 2020.
