ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on teachers. In the meantime, the Minister of Education, Culture and Science has also been appointed. Welcome aboard. I had already welcomed the other minister to the two previous VOCs in this plenary. I give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you. "I feel like I'm never finished. No matter how long I work, there's always more. And I've been spending more and more time shifting paper that nobody really sees the value of." Just three quarters of the teachers I spoke with Lilian Marijnissen in Amsterdam-Noord last Wednesday, but it could as well have been quotes from staff in the care or with the police. Ten years of Rutte has led to a deterioration of what is ours all. Let me give you a few examples. The number of homeless people has doubled, just like the waiting lists for a house. Fixed contracts are still a little bit more about how it is going to be in education, too often a myth. People's distrust of craftsmanship is underlined by endless protocols and piles of paper. It rains consultation clubs, committees, drivers and coordinators to hide the fact that the government itself is less and less concerned about it. Meanwhile, the government managed to save 14 billion in six months. That's four and a half tons per homeless man, which means he's not homeless anymore. Or 4.5 tons per job vacancy in the care that is not being filled. It's 7.5 million per job in primary school. Or €85,000 extra for every teacher who now works at primary or secondary school. Of that money, any teacher can drive the same car as the minister. Money is abundant, but what is the result after almost three years of Rutte III? When we were all still condemned to Sander Dekker, and that was no fun, the estimated shortage of teachers was over 3,000 FTEs. Meanwhile, we are at 2,400, despite all the efforts of this cabinet, all the debates, strikes, action plans, management tables, regional consultations, side-influx and cheering reports about pabo students. What's the result so far? A smaller increase in the deficit. That's it. Restrict the damage. It's as if a team with a 3-0 lag gets into the locker room and the trainer decides: go defend yourself to avoid worse. That's a bucket here and there to catch the drops of the leaking roof. A cabinet that puts its finger in the dike like a Hansje Brinkers, but eventually the roof falls apart. Eventually that dike breaks through. If we take the government's own estimates, we're still in trouble. 2028 sounds a long way away to me, but I have to say that it is getting closer with speed. The teacher shortage in primary education is then 10,000 FTEs, say a teacher or 13,000 to 14,000. The number of vacancies has increased. The number of responses to a job vacancy has fallen, if you get any comments. The extra influx in the pabo is 452 students. But the estimate is that over the next two years we will lose 5,500 full-time jobs in primary education, simply because teachers will retire. With these kinds of figures, I am beginning to understand a little better the resistance of the cabinet to actually mapping the deficit. No one wants to go home when they just got a report with an "F." I can tell you that I speak with some authority and experience on this point. When can we finally see the site where schools can keep track of the shortage of teachers? I am now standing here with a manifesto that I received yesterday, together with colleagues Van den Hul and Westerveld, from Jelmer Evers, lecturer, trade union activist, who asks the inspection to identify the deficit. Honestly, I'm not there yet. A motion has been passed. Let's just do it, but I'd like to hand this manifesto over to the cabinet. Let us not throw that out with the argument of bureaucracy. Really, of all those things that are bureaucratic for a teacher or for a school leader, that one e-mail to indicate which class was sent home that day won't make the big difference. What happens, for example, to the employment agencies that are getting very rich over the back of the poignant shortage of teachers? Is their bet going back now? Is the Minister prepared to think together with us about, for example, a maximum price that temporary agency agencies are allowed to charge? We hear stories that a temp sometimes costs up to 190% of the wage costs of an employed teacher. That's a waste of money, isn't it? Can't we just come up with a maximum percentage to hire temp teachers? I think you'll have a double profit. You make it more attractive to hire someone on a permanent basis and you make sure that educational money doesn't go to companies like Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	I have an interruption for you from Mr Bertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	It is about the manifesto of the AOb that has just been offered to the government. I have a question for the colleague of the SP. It's a very nice speech, but you can be used as a pass-through from the AOb to the government. That AOb is a very powerful, big player in the educational polder, isn't it? A player who has been growing up for decades, who is responsible for those lousy collective agreements of the teachers and who is responsible for ensuring that education is designed in such a way that no one wants to go to class anymore. Then you're standing here on behalf of that AOb, on behalf of Mr. Jelmer Evers, who I can't even follow, because he blocked me on Twitter. I don't know why; I've never had anything to do with the man. But they always say I'm a racist and a fascist and I don't know. On behalf of that club, which is Guilty As Hell when it comes to the position of the teachers, along with the PO Council, you are now going to pass on a manifesto to the government. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	Let me begin by recognizing Mr Beertema's pain. I can't read his party leader's tweets, not for years, because his party leader blocked me. I can imagine that's incredibly annoying. This is a manifesto in support of the implementation of a motion which I myself tabled with Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. It will not surprise you that I am very happy when a union says: "Get to work on these sensible proposals from Kwint." I can highly recommend that to everyone. You're talking about bad collective agreements. I do believe that in the past deals have been made that should not have been closed. But now, when I look at what is happening at the collective agreement table, I see that, for example, the AOb is not there, precisely because they feel that not enough is being done for teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	Surely it is completely hypocritical that the AOb, actually just a mantle organization of the PvdA, because that is what it is, of course, and the SP, I must say, is now acting in this way, while one is responsible for one of the things that made teaching so unattractive, namely all these temporary contracts? I couldn't do that anymore. They lobbied here to maintain the possibility of several temporary contracts in succession. Why? Then those drivers could fire all those teachers and teachers just before the summer break and take them back after the summer break. That's your AOb, and for that you serve as a pass-through hatch. I don't think it's a pretty picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	No, I already got that definite impression that Mr Beertema does not like it. I was also familiar with the fact that he has no particularly warm feelings for trade unions. I still think it is an excellent proposal to focus on identifying teacher shortages. I put in a manifesto for that. For the rest, I am for any organization that fights with teachers to give them what they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	We asked together for that registration to be made by the Ministry. Your motion was co-signed by me. How do you feel about it not happening? I really can't understand, nor can we leave this in the hands of other organisations. I do not agree with Mr Beertema's qualifications, but it is actually quite crazy that you should have information that you have to use to steer your policy by others. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	I don't get it. I mean, we're now leaving it to the volunteering of a teacher, Eddy Erkelens, who puts it on a website. He also receives cooperation from regional broadcasters, which are also covered by this minister, because he is also involved in Media. It seems to me relevant to keep track from day to day of the size of the deficit, in which sectors the deficit is greatest and where it occurs. I think it's weird that we have numbers for 2028, but not today. I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr Van Meenen, supplementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. Mr. Kwint, you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	Yeah, I stayed with the temp agencies and the permanent contracts. I mentioned the teachers I spoke to Lilian Marijnissen last week. They all told us why they went into education. The love of the profession, the love of helping children all splashed off. But there were also teachers who had laid out with a burn-out, teachers whose love for the profession and the children had sometimes, or often, been at the expense of their own health. Teachers who had seen their profession change, who went mad with bureaucracy, especially the bureaucracy around, for example, appropriate education. I spoke to a school director on Friday, and I thought, "I'll back her up on that story about bureaucracy and appropriate education." So I say, "Yeah, sometimes it can take you six months to get proper guidance." She looked at me like she saw water burning and like I was crazy. Her two colleagues, too; I'm actually just laughed at. 'Cause, yeah, six months? So soon they had never received the support they needed! They never got that in practice. This means, in practice, that you have more than six months of unrest in the classroom, of problems, of a student getting worse, of a class getting worse and of a teacher getting worse. You can't beat the crap out of that in front of the class. That way you lose good people and the deficit gets bigger. What happened, for example, to the proposal we made earlier with GroenLinks to accelerate the granting of teacher support? Of course, the pay gap between primary and secondary education needs to be closed. I continue to find it difficult to understand that this question is so broad and so urgent that there is actually a political majority, but that a coalition does not vote for it. For example, I heard Mr Van Meenen from D66 on Saturday say that the cabinet should fight for this at any time: with the Spring note, with the budget. But is the Cabinet going to do the same? Do you give education priority over further repayment of public debt? Finally, more is needed. When can we look forward to a proposal to reduce the teaching of teachers in secondary education? When is the Minister going to come up with a proposal to really reduce bureaucracy in appropriate education? How much would it cost, I'll just call it something to make the pabo for free, for example? How much would it cost for teachers to lose a quarter of their college debt every three years they're in front of the class, so that they're debt-free after 12 years? And finally, what would it cost to reduce classes with extra disadvantaged students to a maximum of 21 or 23? The importance of this cannot be overestimated, precisely because it is the schools where the deficit is greatest and precisely because it is the schools where teachers unfortunately leave the profession. Shrink the classes there and you hold teachers and attract new teachers faster. Thank you for your leniency, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the last time we stood here, much has happened and at the same time far too little. At the end of last month, more teachers went out on the streets and laid down the work, not for one, but for two days this time. We have finally heard a minister admit that there should be an end to the pay gap between primary and secondary education. And we have heard an important coalition colleague of that minister from this Chamber say that he believes that the minister should do something about it now, and not wait until another cabinet. The Minister has again allocated a sum to side-insurgents. However, I note that today, three months after the budgetary procedure, we have still not managed to really meet the teachers, to prevent the most vulnerable children from being hit the fastest and hardest by the disastrous effects of the shortage of teachers and to even slow down the growth of the shortage of teachers. And last but not least, while the Minister of Finance states that we can invest our money better in the economy than pay off the government debt, this cabinet still refuses to invest structurally in our education, while in the words of the same cabinet, this government still contributes directly to the earning capacity of the Netherlands, we read in the growth letter. So, for the umpteenth time, we are in a debate about the shortage of teachers that is taking on more dramatic forms every day. It is not for nothing that school leaders, aldermen, parents and since last week employers have been calling the alarm clocks. The shortage of teachers is now so great that there is no guarantee of good education. This affects all students and the Dutch economy, VNO-NCW and SMEs-Netherlands warn. "Watch what is of value and don't let the talents of all our children be lost" I couldn't have put it better myself. In addition, the teacher shortage hits the most vulnerable children, as the education aldermen from the G4 wrote it in their letter of fire: "We fear a situation in which not only the quality of education in its entirety is deteriorating for all children, but this is particularly affecting children for whom good education makes the greatest difference." Yesterday, together with my colleagues Kwint and Westerveld, I received the cry for help from the AOb, Parents & Education and LAKS; Mr Kwint just referred to it. They call on the bell to identify those deficits and call on everyone to do the same. Because if the minister doesn't do it, they'll do it themselves. In the meantime, the effects of the shortage of teachers are increasingly evident. Research carried out by the CNV and the AD has shown that many teachers, school leaders and educational supporters warn against falling performance due to the shortage of teachers. They even see Cito scores decline and see students with increasingly limited vocabulary in the classroom. And we hear more and more school leaders who have no option but to go to a four-day school week, or who have to turn unauthorized people into the classroom. This sometimes happens even in secondary special education, where children benefit from structure and predictability. Just yesterday, I was talking to a high school student who only had ten hours of mathematics this entire school year. Let us prevent the crisis in secondary education from getting as out of hand as in primary education. And here, too, that begins with mapping out the problems. 'Cause this girl isn't the only one who's gonna have to deal with teacher failure. When is the Minister going to map the deficits in the vo? We also see long waiting lists in special education, where the shortage of teachers is even more severe. Mr. Chairman. Surely we cannot and cannot accept this in one of the richest countries in Europe? We read and hear great words from the cabinet, but actions are not going to happen. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this debate has only one good outcome, namely structural extra money for our education, so that we can really tackle the shortage of teachers and so that we can finally bridge the gap between teachers' salaries in the po and those in the vo, so that teachers no longer have to strike, but can just do what they are good at, so that school leaders no longer have to be afraid of the flu wave, so that parents no longer have to arrange care because classes are sent home, and so that every child gets the attention it deserves. In short, so that our education again becomes the equal opportunities engine it should be. In that light, I have a few more questions. How will this minister prevent the emergency plans from becoming the new standard? How far is he willing to go to stretching the borders? And above all: how is he going to guarantee that every child, even and you are the most vulnerable, gets the education and attention to which it is entitled? It is high time that this cabinet of great words finally took action. That is why I am asking the Minister: is he prepared to have the mediator who previously allowed the collective agreement to be broken in primary education examine what steps are needed to integrate primary and secondary education into a single collective agreement? And I repeat my appeal: invest in our education, not occasional, but structural, not next year, but today, not in a fantasy discussion about the next formation, but now, in the spring note. Our education deserves better. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Bertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u17	I can go along with a lot, in the story of Mrs Van den Hul of the PvdA, but of course it remains a typical PvdA story. It's all about money, more money, more investments, money, money. Money doesn't solve everything. It's not like those salaries are the big issue of the teacher shortage. It's not about anything else, is it? It's about the unattractiveness of the profession, about the fact that as a teacher, you can't be a self-conscious professional anymore because you're beaten year in, year out by all those managers and directors. People get tired of that. Does Mrs Van den Hul have any other ideas besides a little more salary, about making the profession attractive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr Beertema is quite right when he says that money is not the only solution. We've talked about that before in this house. Mr Beertema and I are all on the same side when it comes, for example, to the debate on scale-up in education. For example, we have both reacted critically to this cabinet's intention to abolish the merger test. We fully agree that teacher control in the classroom should be strengthened. That is why we are also very happy that the teachers have shown a lot of themselves in recent years, and have often been a guest in this house to tell their story. We don't talk about it anymore, but we talk with the professional in class. But I hope Mr Beertema agrees with us that some of the problems do start with money, that some of the problems do start with bridging the unfair pay gap between po and vo or between vo and vso, also such an inexplicable difference in pay, and that extra money is also needed for extra hands in the classroom. So no, money doesn't make endlessly happy, but it is an essential ingredient of the cover that is needed in our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u19	In addition, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u20	Does Mrs Van den Hul at least recognise that all these educational innovations with all that self-discovered learning, the teacher as a coach, the teacher remotely and even digitally, are one of the things that are partly the cause of the fact that teachers quit? Does Mrs Van den Hul also recognise that the excessive diversity in these schools, the enormous number of ethnicities that run through them, sometimes I call it the multicultural hell of the big cities in education, is driving teachers out of the big cities and out of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u21	This is where Mr Beertema loses me. Because that diversity he hates so much is a given. I think it is incredibly important that teachers are well prepared for the various classes they actually see before them. And fortunately, a lot of teachers are and therefore it is so very important to continue to invest in good training for our teachers. What matters to us is that you let teachers practice their profession in a way that does justice to their passion for education, so that every child gets the education it deserves. That includes the best teacher for the class.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u23	Very briefly. The fact is that schools in the big cities suffer five times more from the shortage of teachers than the schools out there because of the multiculture in those schools. So then your story really doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u24	This has nothing to do with the diversity of these schools, but with the tight labour market, the lack of teachers and growing inequality of opportunity. I like to fight them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr. Chairman. Although I have worked for almost seven years at the General Education Association and also for two years was chairman of the National Student Union and thus helped to organize actions and strikes myself, I have never been present at an educational strike as often as in the last three years, when I was a Member of Parliament. The biggest strike I helped to organise myself was in 2012, in a packed Amsterdam Arena, against the cuts in appropriate education. There were 50,000 teachers there at the time. But in the last few years we have seen that strikes can be even bigger: more than 60,000 people here in the Zuiderpark or even longer, two days, like a few weeks ago. That says something, because teachers and support staff don't just stop, they only do that when they worry about education and their students. Teachers, school leaders and support staff are worried and also angry. They are worried because the shortage of teachers is enormous, because it continues to increase for a while, and because they also see that this has consequences for those students who need some extra support, for example students in special education or on VMBO. But they are also angry, because the deficit has been predicted years ago and previous Cabinets deliberately chose to hide all those reports in a drawer as deep as possible. Ignoring is the easiest way not to have to invest until the deficits became so large that they can no longer be ignored. That's where we've been for a couple of years now. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we talked to the students Martha and Lina. The first said that in five years she had had no less than nine Dutch teachers. Of the four trainees she had in class, three dropped out prematurely. Lina had ten hours of math in the last year. Meanwhile, we find that politicians and policy makers continue to complain that the level of calculation and language of young people is so poor, so there is a reason for that. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks also sees beautiful things happening. More investment is being made in education, work pressure resources are being invested well, salaries in primary education are rising and the influx into teacher training is increasing. But it's not enough. That's not something I'm making up; that's just what the hard-core numbers show. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is always easy to say that something is wrong, but you also know that in recent years, especially on this dossier, we have been thinking about how it can be done. With several colleagues, we have often made suggestions here for attracting and retaining more people, such as promoting side influx and deploying on the 83.000 people in the Netherlands who do have educational competence, but are not in the classroom. Yesterday, AOb Parents & Education and the LAKS offered a petition. I will not go into that further, because that is what my colleagues Mr van den Hul and Mr Kwint have already done. But it is also, of course, a question of having tabled a motion, of having made a proposal. This has been accepted here in the Chamber and it has not been carried out. I would like to ask both ministers why it often takes so long for proposals from us to be implemented, and why some proposals are not being implemented. That is, for example, the motion by Mrs van den Hul and me, calling for agreements with employers on a return guarantee for teachers, or proposals I made with Mr Van Meenen on regional cooperation and on preventing teachers from being dismissed before the summer and re-assigned after the summer. They just have to keep working in that education. With Mr Kwint, I have also made a number of proposals, for example: indicate how much money really goes to the people in front of the classroom, and to the people in the management or board. We have made a number of proposals to exclude temporary employment agencies from education. I have made a proposal to take a close look at the various emergency courses offered. That's all from the past few years. We sometimes hear in the feedback "we're still having conversations" or "we're still researching," but the lack of teachers calls for haste. These kinds of motions of ours require speed, and we shouldn't have to wait a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u27	There is an interruption for you from Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u28	We see in education that agreements made by the government with schools are often non-binding, an effort obligation and lead to insufficient results. We have already made a number of comments in the Chamber, and you are quite right to point out that, above all, early teachers will be dismissed in July and re-elected in September. That is a terrible thing in education; I experienced it myself when I was a young teacher. We've asked the Cabinet to get to work on that. I really think that's one of the most annoying things schools can do to teachers who need to be mentored when they just start their jobs. We are going to wait for the answer from these ministers. I am afraid that insufficient steps have been taken. Is the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance prepared, for example, to impose sanctions on schools or administrations which are not sufficiently committed to this? Because it can't be that novice teachers have to take a side job during the summer holidays to pay their mortgage or rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u29	Like Mr Heerema, I am critical of school boards. I'm not always, but I am when it comes to this. At the same time, I wonder what kind of sanctions we should think about. Because of course it is often not out of unwillingness that this happens; it also has to do with the fact that in some areas, for example, there is shrinkage, so less money goes to schools. So it could have all kinds of reasons. I would like to say that we should also look at these reasons first. There really is a difference between schools in there. And at the same time, at the time it happens intentionally, we need to look beyond merely non-binding agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u30	The fact that there is such a shortage of teachers ensures that, at the moment when you cannot get a full-time appointment in one school, there is always another school place. So if it's true that a teacher likes to work in education, give him the appointment, so that he definitely feels at home in education. I think we still have some differences of opinion as to the non-binding nature that should be attached to it and the commitment that we are now asking for, which is not sufficiently acted upon. I believe that the Green Left Group is giving a little more room to see if there are regional differences. I think we should make sure that every teacher who wants to work in education is held. This can be done by ensuring that they can get a regular one-year contract as soon as possible, a full year, and that they cannot be fired during the summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u31	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u32	I hope that Mrs Westerveld will be able to support this plea a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u33	You are using the time to put your plea in practice, but let us try to keep the interruptions short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u34	I'm gonna go a long way with that. I have not raised this with Mr Van Meenen for nothing before. I have also recently been very critical of, for example, the increase in the number of temporary contracts. I do not think it can be sold that more and more teachers and educational support staff are offered a temporary contract at a time when we have a shortage of teachers. I don't get it either. I have also been very critical of the rising financial reserves of school boards before. In the crisis years, they have increased. When teachers were put aside, the financial reserves of school boards increased. These are all matters on which I am very critical. I do think that we should also be aware of the different explanations that can be given. That's different. We have to assume, first of all, that school boards really do have the best interests, but if we see that these figures do not improve, then there really must be a follow-up step. Then more binding agreements must be made. I have said a number of times here, for example, that there should only be a maximum percentage for the financial reserves. We have a job to do in there. We must not close our eyes to money that exists in education and is not spent on teachers, but we must pay attention to the differences that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u35	I suggest you continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. Chairman. I come to the educational support staff. They are also an essential part of a school, but they also suffer from shortages. I have some questions about that. Is it true that the job guarantee for those who opt for education assistant training is still low? In any case, we find this on the website of the SBB. How is it possible that the flow possibilities for teaching assistants are often not properly regulated? Last weekend's Education Magazine contained a very interesting article about the barriers that education assistants run into when they want to become teachers. In the letter from the ministers, we read that 328 applications for a grant were made in 2019; there is a subsidy for a number of teaching assistants, but that this grant has actually been postponed because it is now insufficient. Actually, I find that weird at a time of shortages. If people indicate that they want to be teachers, should we ensure that they can also claim this grant? Mr. Chairman. Is it also known how many support staff a school employs? Are there major differences between schools? That's what I'd like to know. Is the Minister prepared to continue thinking with us about influx routes for janitors? People who have worked their whole lives in construction and who have been rejected for physical reasons, for example, can often still work as a supporter in such a school. Is the Minister prepared to take a closer look at that? My final comment concerns temporary contracts. The number of temporary contracts has increased. In 2012, 8% of education supporters had a temporary contract. That's 22.5% now. I don't think we can sell that at a time of great shortages, at a time when we really need to keep everyone inside the school. Would the Ministers be willing to respond to this? Mr President, I will conclude. I see Mr Bruins standing at the interrupting microphone, but shall I say my last sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u37	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude by saying that education for our young people is too important to be neglected. That's been happening long enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you. You have an interruption from Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mrs Westerveld spoke of side-instromers from construction. She asked the minister if people who couldn't handle the heavy work there could possibly be janitors. But wouldn't it also be a good idea to just use those people as a teacher of technique in primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u41	Yeah, that sounds good to me, too. Perhaps for the sake of clarity, teacher is also a very difficult profession. But that is, of course, in a different way than working in construction. For example, there are people who have been rejected and who also let me know: I would very much like to get to work; I also know that I could still help with support in a school. It is often difficult for them to get retrained. Schools themselves sometimes have too little resources for that, or they face other barriers. If we can attract these people to education, it seems to me to be a win-win situation for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u42	Perhaps it would be a good idea to pass that question on to the cabinet in this way, to see if there might be an additional incentive there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u43	That's an assignment to cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u44	I hope, with Mr Bruins, that the ministers will be able to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The shortage of teachers is not just a crisis. The teacher shortage is the symptom of a system crisis, an educational system crisis. So we do not recognize the positive feeling expressed by the Minister's letter of 16 December. The minister says that the estimated deficits in the p.o. and primary education in 2024 lower than previous estimates, with 1,300 fte to be precise. That is really good news, but given the massivity of the problem it is not a drop in the ocean. In the big cities, the deficits are so high that schools are forced to close. No less than sixteen schools in Amsterdam closed for a week in December because the quality could not be guaranteed. According to the aldermen from the four major cities, the minister even gives a distorted picture of the shortage of teachers in these cities. According to those aldermen, the deficit is bigger than the minister wants us to believe. Hundreds of vacancies are still open, but there are also hundreds of hidden vacancies that are now being solved, well, they are being messed with by sending classes home or by putting unauthorized people in the classroom. How is the Minister going to ensure the quality of education there? Putting unauthorized people in front of the classroom can and should never be an answer. Is it true that the shortage in the big cities is greater than the minister says? Where did this discrepancy come from? What do these aldermen base themselves on and what does the minister base himself on? Who's right about this case? The shortage of teachers is the most urgent in the big cities. Teachers prefer not to work in the big cities. I have just spoken to Mrs van den Hul..... because superdiversity and also the related Islamization often make education in the big cities a horror for teachers. This is even true for teachers who, strangely enough, tend politically strongly towards left-wing parties, who have not only opened up borders, but also externally preach the diversity of streets and neighbourhoods, diversity for everyone, but rather not for themselves. We see that a lot. Many teachers don't even want to live in the big cities anymore. In fact, financially they are not even able to live in the big cities anymore. The Minister is in talks with the G5 to deal with the problems surrounding the housing situation. Striving for top-level administrative cooperation is not an unnecessary luxury, but otherwise it remains rather vague. It is still unclear what scope is needed in the regulation in order to take effective action and what conditions should be attached to it. Also, the agreement between the municipality of Amsterdam, the housing corporations and the tenants' organisations to make social housing and middle-priced housing available to start-ups with priority gives us no cause for optimism. This can be said by the municipality of Amsterdam, but the fact remains of course that last week she was commissioned by the province of Noord-Holland to make more social housing available to status holders. It also seems strong to us that starting teachers can pay a middle price in Amsterdam, if you consider that the average house price there is currently €507.475. I would like a response from the Minister and a reflection on how he thinks he will solve the problems with the shortage of teachers in the big cities. We understand that the discontent among teachers has become so enormous...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u47	You're about to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u48	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr Beertema of the PVV speaks specifically about the big cities. I myself included something about this in my speech. Mr Beertema put it very much in the cabinet. He makes comments about multicultural hell, the fact that he no longer wants to live in the city and the pricelessness of housing in the city. But does he have any idea what we could do from the Chamber to help the big cities get more teachers in class? I'm looking for something, too. We can say that we must abolish multicultural hell tomorrow, nothing more in it, but there is no solution to the teacher shortage in Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Utrecht the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u50	I love that. There is only one party in this House at the moment, two at the moment, which has been warning us for years about what we all bring in, about the effects of the open borders, about European regulation, which means that we do not even have the autonomy to guard our own borders anymore. Those boundaries are wide open, by you, Mr. Heerema, by the VVD and by all those other parties. And now to ask the PVV: do you have a solution? We had that solution 20 years ago, so to speak. Then we should have guarded those boundaries. We shouldn't have allowed all these family reunifications and stuff back then. At that time, we should not have allowed the population of the big cities. That's the big problem. So afterward blaming us for having no solutions is a bit easy. There are solutions, but education will indeed have to operate in a very different way. Then citizenship shouldn't be that lame story it is now. Then we have to do much more about integration, about assimilation. Do you remember that word, "assimilation"? It has become a forbidden word, as there are so many forbidden words in Dutch nowadays, thanks to the parties in that corner I point to the left. But assimilation shouldn't be allowed anymore, because that's all very hurtful for people and stuff. You know, that way, education is ruined. In this way, education has ensured that all that ethnic talent does not even come to maturity, because there are no more people in the classroom who are able to truly integrate those people, make them truly Dutch, make them people who contribute to the economy and contribute to society. So I think it's a little "thank you" for your patience, Mr. Chairman... cheap that the VVD is now going to take the PVV's measure, like: you don't have a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u51	It was a sincere question, not a question in a critical sense. In the past, you have indicated what your solutions were. They weren't arrested. We are now at a certain point where we say: hey, the big cities have a problem. The question was sincere. If you had an idea with your reflection of the past few years and in view of what is going to come to us, then I am genuinely interested in it. Would the PVV have a different solution than 20 years ago: closing the borders? We can't do that now, but we may have something we can do for these big cities tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next year. I am thinking, for example, of tailor-made cao's or something like that, so that you could also deal with it in the region. It's just an idea. I was simply wondering if the PVV has something like that. It wasn't a reproach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u52	The housing situation in the big cities is of course very important. Amsterdam is priceless for a modal teacher. The same applies to the other major cities. That should indeed be taken into account. Well, the cabinet is planning to, but I think: deliver first; see first, then believe. This is about the living situation, but on the other hand it is also about the content of the profession. That too is something the PVV has been warning about for years. All these educational innovations: do you know who they are bad for in the first place? For the immigrant young people, because they are totally released from it. The old-fashioned.................................................................................................................... All of that has been modernised. That is so dangerous, especially in the multicultural society of the big cities. There's so much talent lost because of that non-committality, by such a coaching distance teacher who lets all those immigrant kids mess around and stuff. It's too terrible for words. Didactically and pedagogically, it's too terrible for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u54	Back, as far as I'm concerned. Maybe we'll talk about that again in a few years, if you've come to this understanding and say "we should've done that." Back to proper education, direct instruction, strong teachers for the class and citizenship in the sense of becoming a Dutchman, taking over our habits, our traditions and so on: then we get somewhere, Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u55	Thank you. Mr. Kwint still wants to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u56	Mr Beertema spoke some time ago about the living situation of teachers: if only we had a ministry or something that was about living. I believe that this has been abolished by the Rutte I cabinet with the support of the PVV. But my question is another. Mr Bertema says in a subtlety: all those teachers who do not even want to live there anymore. What's he basing that on? I agree with him that it is priceless for many teachers, but on what basis does Mr Beertema base his statement that teachers would no longer want to live in Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Utrecht?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u57	Seems pretty simple to me. The large cities are five times more affected by the shortage of teachers than the rest of the country. If Mr. Quint knows about the SP, let him light me up. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u58	Supplementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u59	Let me try to lead Mr Beertema to a solution. I think the essence is the difference between wills and cans. He says it himself: an average purchase price of 5.5 tonnes. If you are not eligible for a social housing, then as a teacher you can really want to, but you can't. I only speak to teachers who really want to live in Amsterdam, or in Rotterdam or Utrecht, before I get angry emails again. The problem is not that they do not want it anymore, as Mr Beertema just said. The problem is they can't do it anymore. Then that must be what you're gonna do about it, right? That has nothing to do with the teachers' desires, does it? There are plenty of teachers who want to live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr Kwint talks about will and ability. If you have to spend too much of your disposable income on living space, then you don't want it anymore. That makes sense, doesn't it? Then you're going to the county. You're gonna live a lot nicer and nicer for a lot less money. In addition, you will have a quieter environment for your children. I don't see this discrepancy so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u61	I have another interruption for you from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr Beertema is going wild again. First, it's the union's fault. They've caused the shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u63	Not alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u64	After that, it is the fault of children with other cultural backgrounds. They've caused the shortage of teachers. Does Mr Beertema not agree with me that the shortage of teachers is simply due to the fact that successive Cabinets have invested too little in education over the past few decades and have had too little regard for what is really needed to ensure that there are enough people in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u65	I'd love to go along with that classic socialist story, but I can't. The budget per pupil in primary education has increased enormously in those years and education has only got worse. Somewhere the money's stuck. It's not just the unions, you know, who are Guilty As Hell. Let me reassure Mrs Westerveld. It is also the PO Council and the VO Council and all these umbrella organisations that are so busy in that educational polder. That's where the blame lies. I shall come back to that in a moment in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u66	Mrs. Westerveld, supplemental.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u67	This is also too easy, to lay the blame on others every time. Of course, it's just the government. In the debate on the Education budget, I have outlined a somewhat more comprehensive story on how over the past few decades the large deficits that have been predicted for a long time have always been ignored in a very strict fashion. Now these ministers are sitting with the baked pears, because when they recommended there was already an emerging shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u68	And your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u69	Does Mr Beertema agree with me that we simply need to agree here that we are going to invest enough in education in the near future to ensure that those who now choose that profession are also retained for that profession, so that we do not have the same problems again in about ten years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u70	I go very far along with Mrs Westerveld's speech. She's absolutely right. But that too has its causes. This government and previous governments have, of course, made the biggest mistake ever by introducing a lump sum system. In doing so, they have given all the power to the world of directors. There are two ministers here. They can't do anything. They're not doing anything. Why aren't they doing anything? They can't do anything. That's right. They are two unpowerful ministers who have nothing to say in education. Mr. Rosenmöller of the VO Council is about it. That's how we came up with it in this Chamber together. Mrs Den Besten is so strange from the PvdA and Rosenmöller from GroenLinks. It's over. We're not talking about it anymore. The ministers aren't about it anymore. I've always been annoyed by those ministers. With every motion we make: no, no, no, that's not what we're talking about. That's right. They're not about it. It's up to the gentlemen and the women's directors. We'll give it a bag of money. They decide how they spend it. Any motion that we have tabled, which I believe you have also supported, Mrs Westerveld, in order, for example, to hear the personnel costs, the teacher's expenses or to hear the real estate, is voted down as hard as possible, among other things by Mr D66, by people from the CDA, by the VVD. Not a chance. So it is not even so much the ministers who are guilty. It's us, right here in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mr. Beertema, clear, but would you like to try to answer it briefly and forcefully, because of course we also have a certain time clamp? Mrs Westerveld, supplemental.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u72	Finally, I would like to make one final point. Like Mr Beertema, I am critical of the lumpsum. We have now made proposals more than a year ago, in which we also said that there should be more control from here, but that is not a majority vote. At the same time, the lack of teachers is not yet the fault of the unions or of the pupils, and it remains a political responsibility to resolve the crisis that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u73	That remains indeed a political responsibility. The PVV has, in all conscience, tabled motions and amendments to improve this, but they have been voted away and even hoarded away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u74	I think we have heard from Mr Bertema by now all the guilty. The unions, the boards, all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u75	D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u76	D66 in particular, of course. And we have already heard that we must stop overcrowding, and I really want to distance myself from those words. He also mentioned borders close.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u77	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u78	I have a question for the PVV, because Mr Beertema is here on behalf of the PVV, and teachers see this and of course wonder what they have about the PVV. I can understand that there are some elements in Mr Beertema's story that address teachers. Money closer to teachers. Think carefully about what sensible forms of education are, on which I have recently made a proposal to look at that. But the last time the PVV seriously wrote something in an election programme on education was not at the last election but at the previous one, in 2012. At that time, the PVV's view was that we could cut 2 billion in education, of which 1 billion in basic education, which should be achieved mainly by larger classes. That's the last time PVV has found anything. How do you look back at that in the light of what is going on in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u79	Now we are going back a long way in history and the President does not want me to elaborate too much, but I do not think it is entirely fair. This growing education budget has not brought about any improvement in quality. There is always an almost populist call for smaller classes, but smaller classes have everything to do with money. Smaller classes cost a lot of money. Research also shows that you have to go back to a class of fifteen or sixteen students if you want to achieve significantly better results in education. Fifteen, sixteen students, that's unpayable. Education is very accessible and has a price. Fifteen, sixteen students are unachievable. Those larger classes do not have to be such a problem if there are good teachers, good teachers with strong pedagogics and didactics and with a school where there is regularity and order and where there is structure. Then there's not so much going on with a bigger class.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u81	I wasn't finished with my answer. I can talk about this endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u82	I noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u83	I can imagine something else about the idea that if you have to get money from somewhere, you'd say, "Let's increase those classes." That's what the PVV said at the time, but the money that was released from it was not invested in education and all kinds of other things that are of great importance, but it was just cutbacks. At the time, your bill said we're going to cut a billion dollars, and we're going to achieve that by increasing the classes. That's the last serious news from the PVV we've heard since then. You're a good man with a good heart for education, but now I'm interested in your party. What exactly does it stand for? Is it still a good idea to do that or should we invest now? What exactly do you stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u84	Big investments, extra investments, no, we don't have to. We can generate money in a different way, for example by completely abolishing that lumpsum. But in any case, to begin with, by going through ear tags, by putting in strict frameworks all those drivers who are now making hundreds of millions disappear that are irresponsible... That's just gone; that's tax money gone. This call from especially PvdA and GroenLinks for additional structural investments, I do not see much benefit in it. I often say it on Twitter: that's just going to be extra money for those drivers. For real estate, for even more beautiful architecture, for even more lease cars of the drivers of the rocs, as it was at the time. You know, there's so much money stuck there. Education must be sober. If we make it sober again as it once was, we'll be left with money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u85	Thank you. I have an interruption from Mr Van Raan. No, that'll be the third interruption; we've done two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mrs Westerveld was allowed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u87	Then I'll let you do it once. If it's really very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u88	It is very short indeed. I share that point, too, that a lot of money ends up in the wrong places. I make proposals for that myself. Mr Beertema is now bringing that up again as money that can be cut. But it must be so, because that is my proposal, that that money stays in education but gets a better destination. I don't think that's what the PVV wants. He just wants to cut back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mr. Chairman. Those are stories from 2012. The only thing I am saying now is that we do not want major additional investments. The money's here. If it is used in a different way, there is also money to close the pay gap, as far as it is necessary. That L.A. pay grade, of course, has had its longest time. You can enter into the debate, but that is a very political issue, whether you need to go further and level out. I'm a little more into differentiation in that. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u90	I was wondering whether we were not seeing a hopeful trend break here at the PVV, or at least with Mr Beertema. Let me explain to you why. 'Cause on the one hand, he was full of mouths about reprehensible overcrowding...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u91	Replacement. Do you think that's a nicer word?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u92	... and the disruptive way in which he speaks about Islamization in his own words. You will only hear it every time from the PVV, that you are not actually welcome and that you adhere to an abominable ideology. But there is a glimmer of hope, because I also saw him getting warm when he talked about the fact that the immigrant young people themselves are the victims of bad teaching in his words, and that they are in no way likely to be able to do so. Does that mean that Mr Beertema also gives the best benefit to young people from his educational heart and from his compassion, so that they can develop, because they do not get the chance? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u93	Is that right? I don't know where to start. I have worked 34 of the best years of my life in the MBO in Rotterdam-Zuid, with 140 different nationalities. I've had whole generations of immigrant youth in class, trained, assisted, compassionate. So that's the story. That's why I care because I know how much talent is in between. That's no difference or anything with native young people. It's young people I get in front of as a teacher who are registered on such a rock. Then it is not a political question whether or not they should be in the Netherlands. They're students, they're right in front of me, and you do something with that. Then emancipation, development, bildung and so on becomes very important. You want to deliver them as participatory citizens. You want to elevate them from a dime to a quarter to that middle class; the old-fashioned education story. So I don't quite understand what the change of course you think you're seeing would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u94	Mr President, in that sense, it is a pity that Mr Beertema doesn't realize this himself, because what he's saying here, what he's just saying here, that story full of compassion, that upliftment story that goes on for everyone, no matter where you come from, no matter what your background is, is a very different story than the erode story that the PVV often tells about people who have other cultures. It would be nice, and I call on Mr Beertema to do so if he lets out the sound he just said more often. That's a much nicer sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u95	I've shown that before, but I'm in a different role here. In a role as a teacher, I deal with that upliftment and emancipation. In a role as a politician, I am talking about all the adverse consequences that I have experienced 34 years in Rotterdam from replacing the people of Rotterdam-South and Rotterdam-West and so on by whole other groups from very large parts of the world, except the Netherlands. Well, okay, then let's call it "replacement." I'm fine with it. But especially those students, the children of people with the lowest wages, from the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass of the underclass. I couldn't do that anymore. That was no longer allowed by all those innovators who keep getting their heads up, now again with Curriculum.nu and so on. That only makes education worse, and not for the pupils of the VVDs and the D66s from all those speaking families, because they are coming, but for the other students, because they need to be sent. We can't do that anymore, and we let that go horribly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u96	I find this very difficult to reconcile. We hear here words such as 'elevation' and 'participant citizens'. As far as I am concerned, they really contradict words such as 'assimilation' and 'overcrowding'. Those two are mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u97	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u98	Yes, I do. I would like to put something to Mr Bertema. Will you please move into a student with a migration background? Move into that, including the figures on what this student is dealing with. Very early on, you will have a much greater chance of under-advisation and a much greater chance that your school will not have a teacher in front of the class, because the shortage of teachers is harder on schools with more students at risk of, for example, language disadvantages. And then you're through that school and you end up in a place in MBO, for example, and then you have to apply ten times more often before you find an internship or a job. How does Mr Beertema react to these figures? Is that all their own fault, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u99	"Their own fault?" Whose? Who are you referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u100	Well, Mr. Beertema just blamed a lot of different groups. A few of them have just been reviewed: the unions were blamed, the education innovators were blamed...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u101	So is the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u102	The PvdA always gets blamed; we all know that. Afterwards, migrants were also blamed. We know that; that's a well-known story from the PVV. But how does Mr Beertema react to these figures that they should apply ten times more often? What are you supposed to do as a student? What does he advise them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u103	I'd like to start this conversation, Mr President, but you'll say again in a moment: short, please. You can't answer this for a short time, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u104	Give it a shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u105	Where did you hear I blame those migrant children for the lack of teachers? I didn't say that, did I? Where do you get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u106	You just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u107	No, I said that black schools in the big cities, with all this multiculture, have a much bigger problem of attracting teachers than other schools. I know teachers who live in Amsterdam because they love living there. With double income, they can afford that net. But do you know where they work? Not in Amsterdam. No, they're going to Purmerend, because that's a lot more fun. That's a lot less chaotic schools. There's a lot less trouble there. I've been teaching in those black schools for 34 years. I don't blame those teachers. I resent you and all those other politicians who have ensured that such a district as Rotterdam-Zuid has been totally surrendered to that multiculture of 240 different nationalities who hate each other and avoid each other. It's a completely segregated society. There's nothing these people can do about that. You can do something about that. And your party leaders should have done something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u108	Says you through the chairman. Mrs. Van den Hul, supplemental?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u109	You know our party as a party that stands up for equality of opportunity. We have made several proposals to ensure that it doesn't matter in which neighborhood you grow up in, that it doesn't matter where your parents come from and that it doesn't matter what training your parents have for the opportunities you get in our education. That is why I call education an equal opportunity machine. There is segregation in our education, there is inequality in our education. And with Mr Beertema's big words, I find it disgusting that we do not find the PVV on our side when we propose to tackle this inequality of opportunity, to prevent that segregation at school, to ensure that the figures I have just read are part of the past and to ensure that it really doesn't matter who you are for the opportunities you get in your life. But at the PVV you are as a youngster with a migration background already with 10-0 behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u110	It is the socialist fairy tales that are proclaimed here every day, about equality of opportunity and so on. The great stirrer Mrs. Halsema, who was the political leader of GroenLinks, even existed to take her children from a black school, because she didn't like it anymore. But Mrs Van den Hul is once again the great champion of equality of opportunity. Come on! You import them massively and then tell all sorts of stories that this segregation is so terrible! I want to give it to you: to work for ten years on a rock with 240 different nationalities!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u111	Thank you. I suggest you continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u112	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, actually, everything's been said, so slowly. We understand that the discontent among teachers has become so enormous that they consider strikes necessary to continue to call attention to their precarious situation. However, we would like to draw the attention of teachers to the fact that they are better able to focus on their own boards and councils, on those employers' and employees' umbrella systems. These are the causes of the suffering called teacher shortage, and not The Hague. It is the big players in the ever expanding educational polder, the domes of employers and employees, that incestuous club of directors, who for decades have stripped the profession of teacher and have devalued the teacher into a glorified coach and system supervisor. That's where the problem is. It is the employers and trade unions who have been shipping teachers with temporary contracts for many years. It's already been mentioned. It's outrageous. Even in a time of lack of teachers, they do that. That was not The Hague, they were their own directors, covered by the employers' umbrella of Mr Rosenmöller of GroenLinks and their own unions. I do not read back to the Minister about how we are going to make the content of the profession attractive again. We have talked about restoring this role of teachers in the interrupting debates. Nothing about that! We regret that. The status quo is unacceptable. That's obvious. A few measures here, a few measures there and a little streamlining is really not enough. For example, make sure that more teachers start teaching more hours. A half-hour increase in the average working week of 28 hours in primary education gives 760 FTE. Half an hour more! There's still a lot of profit to be made. A full-time bonus, presented in a PVV motion that has been adopted, can also be beneficial. Then we hear it's not legally possible. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, if it's not legally possible, we'll just make sure it's regulated by law. In a crisis like this, we must dare to think outside the framework. We must not be afraid and show leadership. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to conclude with a final appeal to the Minister. I would like to say once again that the great causes of the shortage of teachers and the educational crisis are the leaders of education. With the introduction of the lumpsum we have talked about it, the politics has given them free rein. That is so open-minded that we, as politicians and you, as responsible ministers, I say through the President, have nothing more to say. Therefore: ear tag at least within the lumpsum the staffing costs of teachers. I'd like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u113	Thank you. I shall suspend for a few moments in connection with the handover of the hammer to the real chairman. I've only observed her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u114	Let's move on to the debate. I understand that there have been agreements on the number of interruptions. It's kept up to date. "Six" I hear Mr. Kwint shouting. I took a look at this: the interruptions must be really short. You all have six minutes of speaking time. In it you can explain your opinion, your position, your position as a group. The interruptions are really meant to ask questions and keep the debate a bit lively. I'm just gonna be annoying when the interruptions get too long. I call Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u115	Mr President, you would almost forget if you followed the debate over the last half hour, but today we are discussing the position of teachers in this debate. It is good that, in this debate, we take the opportunity to speak more broadly about the position of teachers. They deserve that we also express our appreciation in this place for those who every day with heart and soul help our children to develop. In the view of the Christian Union, the school is a community of values, of parents, teachers and pupils. The school is the practice place to prepare for society. It is a wonderful task to be able to participate as a teacher. But let me also mention the school leaders from this place. They're just not seen enough and they're not called enough. They are a buffer for their team and they must always find that workable balance between on the one hand the government and their management, who make demands from above, and the signals from the workplace. That is why those school leaders deserve a great deal of appreciation. Let us not forget them when we talk about workload and salary. Mr. Chairman. There is unrest in the sector and there is still too much lack of recognition from society and career opportunities for teachers. We must continue to work hard to make the profession of teacher more attractive. I see that these ministers have been working hard on this and I acknowledge that much has happened recently. In recent years, a lot of teaching staff have been added to primary education, and the influx into the pabo has increased considerably. Also the influx of men, to my great joy. Teachers' salaries in primary education increase this cabinet period by as much as 14% and hundreds of side-interms are added to primary and secondary education. I notice that the pressure equipment has really been received with enthusiasm in the workplace. I hear from teachers that these pressure equipment actually have an effect on reducing the workload. But, Mr President, that's not the end of the worry. Tackling the shortage of teachers and strengthening the profession has been postponed for years and actually only really got steam under this cabinet. I fear that it will be a long-term matter, even after this cabinet period and the subsequent cabinet period. Money certainly plays a role in this, and so it is right that attention should continue to be paid to the pay gap between the Po and Vo. My group also believes that we should continue to work on reducing this gap, but I note in the discussions with teachers that money is not the only thing, and not even the most important. It is about the way we as a society look at education and teachers; about the quality of teacher training, about the routes to teaching and about professional autonomy. All these elements relate to the culture of education and the emancipation of the profession. I'm picking up hopeful signals. Everywhere in the country I come across teachers who are really tired of negativity about education and really want to show how beautiful their profession is. For example, look at all schools and all teachers who organized activities during the strike days to show something about their work. So many people could get a look in the kitchen of education. Look at the movement of teachers that has started in recent years after PO in action. These are encouraging signs of emancipation from a professional profession. Now that we see that, we have to go through with it. We need to find ways to ensure that people are preserved for education or returned to education. There is still such a quiet reserve of people with teaching authority, who are away from education or in the WW. We really need to work on that. I would like to hear from the directors what is happening at this point and what additional actions are possible. Mr. Chairman. You know I've been pleading for more men in class for a long time. That's good for diversity and it's good for school teams, good for the profession. In this context, I would like to ask the Ministers to develop more ambitiously the agreements in the government agreement on differentiation of the pabo. It is essential that it is possible to specialize in the young child or the older child at pabo-training, because kindergarten teacher or kindergarten teacher is a profession. Without suggesting gender bias in any way: the pabo becomes more attractive for men and women when differentiation is possible from the outset in training. Because, as in many sectors here too, craftsmanship is specialization. So it's high time for differentiation and specialization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u116	Mr President, I will try to be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u117	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mr Bruins spoke about the quiet reserve that is not addressed, but which offers opportunities for education. Does Mr Bruins also have an opinion on the quiet reserve that actually already works in education? I'm talking about people with a classroom for the whole week, who are only two, two and a half or three days in class. In fact, that is also a quiet reserve that we could address. How does Mr Bruins view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u119	I think this is a good point. In 2016 I advocated for the class in my initiative paper Kerels for more full-time jobs in education, so you can just say: I'm a primary education teacher and I'm a breadwinner. That's important for men and for women. It is true that in education you see a lot of shredded contracts, for eight hours or for twelve hours. A few hours and much of the shortage of teachers could already be solved. By the way, we know that there is a shortage of teachers especially in the big cities. So what you can achieve with this is limited. We also think that working should always be well combinable with care at home, with care or care for children. But larger contracts in education, job vacancies for more hours at the same time would help greatly to make education more attractive and also work on the teacher shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u120	I do not understand one link, namely that in large cities the effect may be limited. On the websites with vacancies, it seems that these cutting contracts are offered mainly in the big cities. In my view, there is a great deal to be done if more full-time contracts are simply offered there or at least more days of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u121	I agree with Mr Heerema. What I meant was, you can get contracts to get bigger all over the country, but that doesn't get people to go to the big cities. But what you can arrange in the big cities also helps in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u123	I was at the differentiation and the specialisation. We see that pabos are already experimenting with that, but my group believes that it should be the norm. I have some reservations with the Minister about this, but there is already an agreement in the government agreement and there is an approved motion from the last budget debate. I therefore ask the Minister about the differentiation in training. This also affects the debate on the system of competences in education. Ministers sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter last week. They recognise the need for the system of competences to improve the quality of education and make it more attractive to continue working in education. My group shares that analysis. There will now be a committee to look into this. I'd almost say, "Aren't we on a committee?" In what period does the cabinet expect to take concrete steps with regard to the system of powers? Do we really have to wait for that to allow differentiation on the pabo? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the position of teachers in training, the libraries. We already saw a nice message from the minister in the newspaper this morning about internship fees. But specifically the scores are in front of the class several days a week and already work largely independently. I know that there is a formal difference between Lio-workers and Lio-trainees, but in practice we see that they often do the same work and that guidance is limited, even among the Lio-trainees. Nevertheless,lio-trainees often receive no or hardly any compensation, whilelio-workers do, and I find that difficult to explain. As far as my group is concerned, the shortage of teachers requires that all the sails be replaced. That is why my group believes that all the groups simply deserve a decent remuneration. How does the Minister view this point? She spoke about this in the newspaper this morning, but I would really like to discuss with her today about the legal inequality between lio-trainees and lio-workers. I'm considering a motion on this. Maybe that won't even be necessary. I'll wait for the answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u124	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u125	Thank you, Mr President. If there is a career at school, then every dean and every teacher should constantly stress what a special profession it is if you choose the course of teacher p.o., vo or mbo. In what profession do you spend so long and intensively with a group of children as in education? In what profession can you mean so much to children on their way to adulthood and give their luggage to them for the period after puberty, when they have reached maturity? You not only prepare students for a beautiful job, but you also talk to them about the good life and, I personally hope, even about eternal life. It is therefore remarkable that years later you can live on in the memory of students, now mature, as the teacher who has meant this or that to them. History teacher Gepko Hahn went out in 2018 to collect public memories of the good teacher of the past. He wanted to literally put the teacher on the map with his colleagues through thank-you cards and video messages. That was a nice move. It is indeed time for a positive image of education. As understandable as the discontent over salaries was, all strikes could at some point give you a bit of a grumpy feeling in education. So I welcome the new campaign Working in education, the job of life. If I'm being honest, I also think that the cabinet has just made good salary steps. A wage increase of about 15% in three years is not easy, although of course we have to keep in mind the years of the dry zero line that has dominated education, not just education. The gap between primary and secondary education has now narrowed considerably. The problem of the imminent shortage of teachers has been underestimated for far too long. Neglected. That is why we are talking here, among other things. A lot of good is happening now. But, Madam President, with an unfortunate remark or action, you can sometimes destroy long-term commitment. For example, I understand the recent surprise of teachers that the budget of the teacher grant is being limited to combat the teacher shortage. I just had to rub my eyes out for a second. What is actually being done here? I am referring to the message "change at teacher grants in 2020. " What kind of signal is this? If a teacher, a teacher, is inside, then he is cut off from his education. Does the Minister realise what this means for the infrastructure of training if this actually continues, if the teacher's grant budget is actually cut by about a third? That's not supposed to happen, is it? This seems like a less successful action, I'll say. I hope it's a misunderstanding. I like to be reassured on this point. Madam President. The workload in education remains a recurring complaint. If you see what still needs to be done about reports, notes and reports, then I understand it all too well. The question you have to constantly ask yourself is whether all this is necessary. That's a question you can ask as a politician, as a ministry. I'm sure you should ask that question as an employer and as a school leader. With the Space in rules note, the Minister gave a nice overview of what the boundaries are. However, I note that there is still a need for more concrete examples of what inspection should be enough to meet the standards. In fact, there should also be the attitude in the inspection where people are wondering: is all this really necessary what you are doing? I find too much that is said: it would be nice if your school also did this or that. This is often asked when there is no legal basis for it. Yeah, and then a school usually chooses the safe side. I would like to encourage the Minister to look with the education sector to see if we can explore unorthodox ways to simply limit registration and accountability. And it says what a SGP man here argues for "exploring unorthodox ways." Those things limiting, the profession would do a lot of good, and it would increase the professional space for the teacher again. I share the analysis of Mr Beertema who says that there is a major bottleneck in education in the room for the professional for the classroom. We shouldn't prescribe this or you should. We need to have faith and space to do the right thing. For example, what is a minimal but adequate way to visualise the development of pupils? I notice that schools still do too much out of risk-avoidance behavior. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has the impression that the beneficial opportunities to continue working after the AOW age are not sufficiently exploited. Especially in the short term, education can make good use of the relaxations for this group in labour law. What's the Minister doing with this? Does he, for example, have contact with older people's associations to see how we can approach their supporters? The Chamber has requested that in the short term there be room for teachers who can work specifically in the elementary school. I agree with Mr Bruins on this point for the sake of short notice and for the sake of time. The SGP has often called for a cut between the kindergarten teacher and other primary education. Mr Bruins asked in that line to give more room for specialisation in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to say that sector organisations have recently presented plans for a significant increase in education. That would be necessary for the future of our education. When I see that kind of thing, in the current context, I honestly shudder. The SGP never runs away for necessary practical intervention, but I cannot escape the impression that these plans also contain a large amount of ideology. This is the last thing we are waiting for in all the challenges that education is already facing. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u128	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u129	Mr. Chairman. The VVD believes that there should be more perspective for the better teacher. The place where you work should not be leading as far as we are concerned, but the quality that you add as a teacher to education. In previous debates I started my contribution on what this coalition has achieved for the teacher. But I'm not going to list that here again. That doesn't help solve the problems that exist yesterday, today and tomorrow. I mention classes that are divided, classes that do not have a teacher, or teachers with a high workload because the children in the class need extra attention, with all the consequences for the rest of the class. My daughter Benthe is in second grade. And at her school, too, it's hard work for the director to make sure that there's a teacher for all classes every day. But is it wiser now to make a full effort to recruit even more teachers who are all going to work part-time? Or is it wiser to make more teachers work less part-time? In order to do this, we need to know when the use of working pressure equipment will have sufficient effect to enable us to take this step. In many professions it is normal to work four or five days. In education this is not so, or insufficient, with all the consequences. There may need to be twice as many teachers as needed. Macro is right: we have enough teachers for our children in principle. However, part-time work in education has become so common that we need to attract far more teachers than we need in principle, and all these new teachers are going to work part-time again, because there is almost no full-time job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u130	A quick question. Does Mr Heerema know the reasons why so many teachers work part-time in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u131	Yes. That is why, in the future of my text, I will also come to a number of topics that I think should be worked on, to ensure that as a part-timer in education you may be tempted to work more hours. Then you're talking about child care, then you're talking about salary, and then you're talking about workload. But there are things we could do, or where there might still be room to lower thresholds. But if we also look at the appreciation of the profession, I think it is very sensible to see whether we can organise a more extensive part-time job for the profession, especially for the appreciation, the prestige of the profession and for it to be better financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u132	That all sounds very nice and very simple, in the sense: if you just make more people work, then we will solve the shortage of teachers. But one of the big problems in education is that many people fall out. This failure has everything to do with the high workload and the fact that teachers working three or four days a week have to do their job for more than a full week. Because there's just more work than just those three or four days they're in front of the class. I would therefore like to ask Mr Rudmer Heerema whether he is aware of this and whether he can also comment on it in the follow-up to his speech, on what we can really do to ensure that teachers' workload is reduced first. Because that is a very big problem in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u133	In my opinion, we have always said in all the debates: in our view, if we are to invest in education, we must do that not in salaries, but in work pressure. This is a difference between the party you represent and other parties in this Chamber, but we consider the fight against workload to be the most important. Mr. Chairman. That means that I am tempted to say that we have done a number of things in terms of workload. That's where hundreds of millions went. Of course, this will not have an effect the following day, but it will have an effect in the coming period, precisely in order to reduce the workload and to create space to potentially help solve the shortage of teachers, with the quiet reserve that is actually in primary education itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u134	I wanted to go to Mr Kwint, but I see you look a little difficult, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u135	Something was just said that wasn't right. We have always said in every debate that there are a number of major problems; they are in work pressure and they are in pay. So we have never denied that there is a problem anywhere and never said that only salaries should be raised. The problems are just much bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u136	Then you've made your point. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u137	I think it's a bit of a Hague distinction anyway. You can see it in the big cities by the part-time factor. In Amsterdam, for example, where the teacher shortage is highest, the average part-time factor is 0.8. That is very high; the average teacher works there four days a week. And yet the shortage there is greater than in other places in the country. Mr Heerema says: we should not invest in wages, but in making the workload more manageable. In order to finally find colleagues who can relieve that workload for you, isn't it a bitter necessity that you just have to be able to make a decent living from the teaching profession? Then it is necessary, precisely through salaries, to reduce the workload, because that is the only way to do it, or at least one of the most important ways; should I move so far to get enough people to reduce the workload together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u138	The influx from the pabos has gone up. In the conversations we have, the first issue is never the salary. When we talk to teachers, the first subject is always a workload. The second issue is always appropriate education, the third issue is really always the appreciation of the profession, and then the salary comes. That's what it's all about in the debate and on Twitter and the like. But my experience at work visits is different. I think it would be wise to make sure that we deal with the workload as much as possible and to create space to give people relief. It also makes the business more attractive. You give the profession more prestige, which makes people interested in working in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u139	Now there's another mockery against it. No one chooses education because he eventually wants a villa on Ibiza at 50. Of course not. That is not the point at all when it comes to salaries. The point is that, in the context of appreciation for the profession, you pay a teacher a salary that is according to the heavy responsibility and the level of education. This way you attract extra people to education, which automatically relieves the workload. Can the VVD address the relationship between the level of salary, attracting more people and thus reducing the workload? That's what he just missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u140	Let me move along to a certain extent. We have now taken a step in improving the salary position. I would imagine that we would take a further step in that direction, precisely to make the profession more attractive, but that is, as far as I am concerned, not during this period, but possibly in a subsequent period. I am not convinced that salary is such a dominant factor in the appeal of the profession. I have also noticed this during the work visits I have made and the talks I have had with teachers. The other day I was at a meeting with 70 teachers in the evening. That's where they've been reporting these kinds of things. They indicate that other things are more important than that salary. So I move a little along with Mr Kwint, but not entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u141	Does Mr. Kwint still want to respond? No. You don't have to. Then I will go to Mrs Van den Hul, who will be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u142	That's how you know me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u143	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u144	Oh, yes, I do. I'm gonna stick to the point of pay. I am curious how Mr Heerema assesses Mr Slob's words in De Telegraaf. He's taken a clear stand. He said that the pay gap between p.o. and should be bridged. Does the VVD now share the view that the work in primary education is as heavy and responsible as the work in secondary education and that it also includes equal pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u145	I think I have just given some sort of answer in the direction of Mr Kwint. I was surprised at the Minister's appeal in the newspaper, but it is entirely on him. I assume that it will be included in the election programme of the Christian Union as well as in this very important Christian Union minister who is going to put it so prominently in the newspaper. I have indicated that we have made a movement during this period. It worked in Rutte III. Couldn't do that in Rutte II. I hope that in Rutte IV we may be able to take another step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u146	Mrs. Van den Hul. I hear Mr Beertema laughing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u147	I'm gonna leave that look-back for what it is. I'd rather look forward. I have a letter here that we received last week from a number of employers' organizations. These are organisations that I know are often important allies of Mr Heerema's party. They say quite clearly: we have concerns about the future; we have concerns about the future of the Netherlands. They make a very clear call not to wait to invest in salaries, but to invest in the short term, so that every child gets the education it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u148	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u149	I am very curious how Mr Heerema looks at that letter. How's he judging that call?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u150	How do you look at that, Mr. Lordema?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u151	That letter was sent to our Prime Minister. Frankly, I don't think I should respond to that on behalf of our Prime Minister. I'm not gonna do that. I took note of that letter. A call for more money is always made from many parts of our society. Then what can you honor and what can't? That's always a trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u152	Finally, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u153	This is a little too grim for me right now. Yes, the letter is addressed to the Prime Minister, but that was not my question. My question is: what does Mr Heerema think of that? I am very curious to know what Mr Heerema thinks of the letter of fire they are sending. They write in it: we cannot wait; we must now. How does Mr Heerema view that plea?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u154	That letter was sent. We got it. I honestly don't intend to say: we're going to support that right away. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u155	Because of the same point I was hobbled here for a while. That letter is from employers. In general, these are parties to which the VVD would like to listen, for example when it comes to dividend taxation or whatever. Everyone's gonna jump in. But now it is about education, and now it is simply said by Mr De Boer, the chairman, that there is a need to invest in salaries, in bonuses for teachers in the big cities. Mr. Heerema can't close his eyes to that, can he? Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u156	What I do not close my eyes to is the fact that the VVD has been saying for years that we want to have a difference in salary, but for the better teacher. I even started my plea that it doesn't matter for us where you work, but that it's about whether you're a better teacher and therefore have added value for education. I am certainly in favour of working with bonus systems in education and rewarding teachers better if they add more, but not on the basis of where they live, but on the basis of the good education they give.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u157	This is a very flexible part of thinking: from a call to invest in bonuses for teachers who work in the hardest places in the big cities to the old VVD song about incentive pay. I think it is well done, but that really cannot be the intention of Mr Heerema if he really wants to solve the problems he has previously identified? His reasoning was: if I ask teachers what they want most, then there comes a whole line of wishes and then there comes somewhere at the bottom of the reward. That might be possible, but in this case it is even the employers, the own supporters of the VVD, who say: that's all nice and nice, but there has to be one thing, because we can't afford to abandon the students and the teachers there, so go give them that bonus, do that! What is the answer of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u158	In my text, a little further, it says that I am also interested in tailor-made collective agreements, in order, for example, to benefit regions over the rest of the country. But my answer isn't being listened to, so I'm gonna move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u159	Yes, I do. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u160	I find it very worrying, because a small part-time job when you come from the pabo has far-reaching consequences for the ability to take out a mortgage and for the practical development of responsibilities, but also for the prestige of the profession. We have discussed this before. What is needed at school level to reduce the number of teachers working part-time? I am not talking about teachers who have been working for four days or more, but I am talking about the group that works for three days or less. Has the Minister, for example, gone further with the tax-technical aspect, so that it really pays off financially to work more? If not, why not? And what thresholds exist to make more use of childcare? Can we lower these thresholds even further? And does the Minister have a good understanding of why it became so normal to start immediately in part-time after pabo training, starting from day one? Recently the figures were presented on the influx of new students on the pabo. An increase of up to 9.5%. That's good news. Also good news is that more men opt for a pabo-training course at the influx. For example, look in Amersfoort: more than half of the freshmen there are men. Does the Minister see opportunities to further disseminate these good examples in the pabo-training courses? For the VVD, the biggest profit, besides the side influx, if well supervised, is in the use of time, resources and energy to make more teachers work less part-time. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. After all, the Minister has launched a campaign, a very large campaign, to get new teachers. But what effort is being made to increase the use of the existing group of teachers, the silent reserve in education? There is, above all, a constant lobby from the big cities for more money and more opportunities to tackle the shortage of teachers. There is, among other things, a request for more money for teachers working in large cities. The collective agreement in which the salaries are arranged is very tight. By the way, this also seems to be a reason for teachers to be hired as a zzp'er. In this way they can get out of that tight collective bargaining body. But the Chamber doesn't have any real insight into this yet. The pilot the minister used at DUO didn't work. That's why the minister's going into the rematch. But also in the re-launch, the Minister does not discuss the reasons for the teaching staff to choose specifically to be self-employed. Can the Minister undertake to include this information in his attempt to gain more insight into the pnil, the non-employed? When can the Court expect the results of this? My other question: has there ever been any mention of tailor-made work in the collective agreement on education, whereby agreements can be made on remuneration for specific teachers, for regions and for the better teacher? The VVD believes that there should be more perspective for the better teacher. The place where you work shouldn't be leading as far as we're concerned. Leading should be the quality you add to education as a teacher. In our view, a teacher in primary education should be able to be paid in terms of vo-mates, precisely because we want to offer that perspective. These opportunities are insufficient in the framework of the current collective agreement. It is not yet clear for schools that they can reward excelling, performing teachers on top of an extra periodically. Can the Minister include this aspect in the run-up to the new collective agreement negotiations? Mr. Chairman. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u161	Yes. Very briefly, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u162	I would like to ask Mr Heerema how he sees the incentive reward, which the VVD is pleading for every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u163	I am not going to suggest from the Chamber or indicate how a teacher should perform in order to achieve a higher reward. I think this is on the educational field itself. When you come into a teacher's room, you can see that teachers know very well between themselves who is the better teacher. Also students know very well who is the more ordinary teacher. Children know that very well, and colleagues know that very well. We need to be able to give some sort of quantification to ensure that they can also be better rewarded, because making generic steps in the system is simply not something I am aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u164	The field of education doesn't want this. During the major strike that I referred to in my contribution to, the Amsterdam Arena was full of 50,000 teachers.They were opposed to the incentive payment of 250 million that the VVD had invented at that time. It would be at the expense of appropriate education and then the field of education said massively: we do not want that; invest in appropriate education and not in incentive payment. Several studies have been carried out to show that it is not working. Now the VVD says: I wanted that incentive reward, but the field of education itself is about its implementation. They don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u165	And the VVD does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u166	The fact that the VVD wants things that education isn't waiting for isn't really news. Let me try to pick a more positive angle. The VVD was talking about regionalisation, about the added value teachers can have in places where they are most needed. I said myself in my term: look at, for example, schools that currently have a lot of disadvantaged students above average, and start with class reduction, for example. Then you reduce the workload, then you reduce the workload, and then you make the profession more attractive. Then you also make sure that good teachers who are now drowning in such a school get a better manageable workload. Would that be a proposal on which the VVD says: perhaps we should start with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u167	I do see opportunities in tailor-made collective agreements to come up with solutions of this kind, for example. The problem that I see when reducing classes is how much I would like it to be, because it is always better to have lessons in small classes than in large classes is that extra teachers are needed because more classes are needed. And we're short on teachers. So there's a chicken egg discussion that I don't think we're gonna get out of today. I certainly see opportunities through tailor-made collective agreements, precisely for regionalisation and for making other agreements, provided that they fit within the financial frameworks laid down. I was actually going to go to a next section where there may also be finance to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u168	I'm fighting that it's a chicken egg discussion. It's a discussion about breaking a negative spiral. The dynamics described by Mr Heerema are justified. The workload is very high. That's what's causing teachers to fall out. This will increase the deficit. That means you have to do even more in your own class, because there aren't enough colleagues. That's how the spiral goes down. I suggest we break down that negative spiral. Just say that you make the work in the classes where it is most necessary, in the classes where the children with the greatest problems are, manageable again by reducing the classes. In this way you also retain people, because the workload in these schools is only increasing. You can tell by the numbers. That's not chicken egg discussion. That is a matter of daring to really knot and opt for the best teachers in the places where they are most needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u169	So I see room in the customization in the collective agreements to possibly give this a place. And yes, I admit it to Mr Kwint: it is indeed not a chicken egg debate in that respect, but a negative spiral. We have to break it. I do not think that we can break a negative spiral in education by sticking a Band-Aid like this. I think we really need a lot more than just this. You didn't say that either, but I think we really need to see which patches or any other view of education are needed to break that spiral.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u170	A small approach to Mr Kwint, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u171	Let's get back to that incentive payment. I am still not quite clear how the introduction of such a staffing instrument could contribute to reducing the shortage of teachers. Or is it unrelated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u172	That has something to do with each other. We believe that the prestige of the profession, and with it the appeal to people who want to become teachers, will be increased if you are more valued as a teacher for the work you do, also in the financial sense. It should be possible to have more career prospects in education. We see this as part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u173	But if your drive is mostly what bonuses you can score next to your regular salary, why don't you just deposit yourself into the financial world? Why would that be a drive to choose teaching? I can't get that in my head. Maybe it's me. At that point, I might be a little bit left. That worries me; I admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u174	Well, it's in the Acts, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u175	That's why I'm gonna signal it myself before anyone else blames me. I don't understand: if you're really driven by it, then you're choosing a different profession, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u176	No, I just don't agree with Mr Bishop. In education, too, people who want to be appreciated in this way work. Why should we drive them away to the financial sector, when we can keep them well in education, precisely to give that profession a little more prestige in this way? It seems to me to be a very sensible choice. I wouldn't know why the SGP wants to scare people, who may have a slightly different motivation in terms of pay, away from education? I don't think that's a sensible plan at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u177	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u178	No, it's not about the SGP driving these people away. The point is that the VVD with this instrument doesn't lure the people they want. You don't tempt them to choose education. You'd better get a decent paycheck generically. Invest in it, instead of a whole bunch of reviews and I know how to rig it all up as part of the staff assessments, to be able to award a bonus. That's putting the horse behind the cart, isn't it? I expected a little more efficiency from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u179	Making these generic steps is something we don't like. That's happening right now. This does not have the effect that the best teachers can be kept for education, including those who do want that appreciation for what they are doing. So we disagree on this. To be honest, I can't make it much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u180	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u181	Mr. Chairman. Another question about salaries: can the Minister explain why in secondary education the number of employees with a salary above €9,000 per month has increased from 2,500 to over 5,500 in eight years? And an additional question: the number of teachers or employees in education with a salary between €6,000 and €9,000 per month has increased from 12,500 to 30,000. I suspect this has to do with the ageing of the teaching corps, of the staff in education. Can the Minister confirm this? What's this all about? What consequences does it have for the salary room if this older group has left education? That's gonna happen soon. The group of teachers that can continue to grow in vo, is much smaller in size. So according to a logical reasoning, there's financial space here. Mr President, my final piece. In the opinion of the teachers we have spoken to, appropriate education is the biggest cause of workload. We have a debate in June on appropriate education after we have received the evaluation. I hope that it will be possible as a Chamber to take steps to adjust the appropriate education so that there is less workload for teachers, that there is more rest in the classroom and that there will therefore be more room for all those part-timers to work a little more, if they so wish. This gives them a stronger financial position, more appreciation for the profession and more prestige in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u182	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe you're thinking, is he going to interfere with this subject again? That might be possible, but I am replacing my colleague, Mr Rog, who may be chairman of the interrogation committee on foreign mosques financing. I'm allowed to speak on his behalf. Mr. Chairman. It seems the most normal course of events that every day millions of parents bring their children to school. They actually do that to say that they have enormous confidence in teachers. You bring, and I realize that as a father, your child just takes a few hours a day to a school and you have every confidence in that. That is the greatest expression of confidence in the teachers and the importance they have for our society. You can be very good as a teacher, but if the workload is too high and there is an increasing shortage of teachers, then the quality and perhaps that confidence will be under pressure. The shortage of teachers is not new, but it is becoming increasingly urgent with schools which, for example, only offer a four-day school week, because vacancies cannot be filled. This cabinet has taken significant steps to make the profession of teacher more attractive. We have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in this period to significantly increase salaries and reduce the workload. The basic salary for a teacher in primary education is now super-modal. We ask the ministers how this relates to other professions such as nurses or police officers, which we have also had discussions about in the Chamber. On that point, however, I heard Mr Heerema also say whether it is true that in recent years the number of people in a scale with a gross salary has increased enormously from €6,000. In my opinion, there are figures showing a growth of 4,000 to 12,000 people over a period of ten years. What is the reason for that, I ask the ministers. This cannot only be explained by an increase in the average age of the teacher group. This morning the Minister presented the discount on tuition fees for teachers who want to give another course. She said it's about $3,500. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for carrying out the motion I tabled together with Mr Tielen of the VVD on this point. The Minister has done so with great vigour. We are very happy about that, because every bit helps. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that, after his initial hesitation, Minister Slob is now listening to the proposal we made in the budget debate for a single collective agreement for basic education with two basic scales and an additional scale for teachers in disadvantaged schools, for example first-degree teachers in Randstad. That's not incentive payment. That could be a negative incentive. But we have to make sure that this group of teachers is well rewarded for the extra difficult work they do. We therefore ask the Minister what concrete steps he is going to take to examine the possibilities for doing so. In addition, we must now step up our efforts to reduce the shortage of teachers. Despite the higher influx into the pabo's, we see that too many potential teachers refrain from training, for example because they have especially affinity with the young child or with the old child, but that they are now being trained generically for all ages. We might lose teachers we need in the future. Minister, what is the situation with regard to the drafting of the motion for a resolution on this point which was tabled at the November budget debate? Why should we look at a committee first? You can soon start saving stickers at the Albert Heijn in a book of the commissions set up by this cabinet. Why then want to waste time on this point by setting up a committee first? We also see that teacher training is not yet flexible enough to focus on the needs of side-intromers and does not yet take sufficient account of the luggage they carry. I heard the next example of a elementary school teacher about her son doing the pabo. He missed one point at the end of his pabo and was delayed for a year, because he only has one or two moments a year to walk into that last point. Someone like that is gonna be in front of the class a year later. We can't have that anymore. More flexibility is needed there, otherwise we will lose someone for education. This also applies to the first degree teacher philosophy which does not find a job in her own profession, but which, if she wants to be retrained into a teacher in a deficit class, has to do the whole teacher training again. We also lose this teacher if we are not careful. We also see that there is still a high fallout among early teachers due to workload and lack of guidance. Of course, we now have the Committee on Education, which started last Monday. However, according to the CDA, the shortage of teachers is so urgent that we need to see if there are any things that we can already settle in order to get more people into education in the short term, for example several times a year to catch up or retake exams, or teachers who want to get retrained to another subject even better served by faster training, without compromising quality. For example, I am sure there are other things that we do not need to wait for a committee but which we could start working on now. We call on the ministers to do so. For example, what can we learn from care? We can see that regional cooperation in care is much stronger, national and less non-committal than in education, for example. There also seems to be more attention to the preservation of staff by coaching. For four years now, the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport has been releasing resources to maintain around 25,000 people for care. Can we also invent such an approach for the education workers, because it is also important to keep these people alive? The CDA also calls on the school boards, as we have done before. Too much money remains on the shelf that could be used for the quality of education, for dealing with the workload and for hiring additional staff. The question to the Minister is therefore whether he has any news on this matter, because this was a point he would discuss with the Boards, because that is also urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u184	This is a question I asked Mrs Westerveld. The non-committalness of making calls to the field is very often insufficient. That goes for the same thing. There's money on the shelf. Please use that for the quality of education. Is Mr Van der Molen also prepared to take steps as a Chamber to ensure that the money does get into the classroom if this is not effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u185	We're willing to do that. We had a discussion with the Minister about higher education. There, for example, we have looked at whether there should not be a standardized level of funding for an educational administration. I also support the Minister in that regard as regards what she indicated in that debate, but it may differ from administration to administration. So we don't have to put everyone on the same page. There may also be good reasons to retain additional resources for long-term plans, for example. There must be a discussion about that, but yes, we are not doing this call for nothing on the conveyor belt. When the sector does not respond positively, there is room for further action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u186	In conclusion, it is very good to hear that the CDA says to remove that non-committality a bit as it is necessary in the field of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u187	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Personally, I recognize the point Mr Mulder just made about the one point that you are still short and that you are missing another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u189	Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u190	Van der Molen, sorry, I said Mr Mulder. Excuse me. Mr. Chairman. Today in the newspaper: Health children under pressure from commerce and climate change. This is a publication by The Lancet, the World Health Organization and UNICEF. It also outlines the psychological problems experienced by children as a result of the climate crisis. A debate on the shortage of teachers is also taking place today. Health and psychological problems among pupils and the scarcity of teachers. What do they have to do with each other and what do the ministers do about it? That's not enough. A sufficient number of additional structural measures are still outstanding immediately. The Animal Party has therefore also voted against the last education budget. Mr. Chairman. Soon we will be debating the revision of the curriculum. I do not want to anticipate this too much, but can the Minister answer the following questions? Important part of the discussion is that he is in the tension field of a curriculum review in the midst of a teacher shortage. Does the Minister recognise that this curriculum review can only be a success if teachers gain radically more time and development space? Is the Minister prepared to identify the shortage of teachers not only in a narrow sense but also in a broad sense, namely in relation to the legitimate ambition of smaller classes and less hours of instruction per week for full-time appointment? Because teachers eventually give a job and what they teach is important. So give them the time and space to do their job. This also means that the management tasks with which teachers sometimes have less affinity are taken away from them, so that they can have more time and space for their professional activity and, if necessary, distance themselves from the test culture. More time and space for teachers would also make education less susceptible to attempts by, for example, the fossil industry, the bio-industrie and hunters to influence the teaching material. The Animal Party has repeatedly drawn attention to this. The Second Chamber adopted a motion from the Party for Animals which calls on the government to consider whether and how the Inspection of Education can have a supervisory role on those elements of education organised by companies. The Minister saw no possibilities in this and advised against this adopted motion. That is also where the story takes a sad turn, for the Chamber asked for a serious reconnaissance and received only two brief paragraphs in which nothing was really new, concluding that further exploration in the eyes of this minister is unnecessary. We would like to give the Minister a second chance and ask him to implement this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u191	I'm a little surprised that the Animal Party, Mr. Van Raan, is always so concerned about that indoctrination of the fossil industry that would be there, or of the bio-industry and even of the hunters. I've never met it myself, but I understand they can't. They shouldn't leave information material in schools or stuff like that. Can Kick Out Black Pete, and all those environmental organizations, such as Extinction Rebellion, which was even on a terrorist list in England? Are they allowed to do all that? May they go so far as to kill twelve-year-old children, when they are climate strikers on the Malieveld here and tell me with their pale frightened choices: "Sir, do you know that in twelve years' time there will be no life on this planet?'. Are there allowed all kinds of environmental organizations to come into the house, in those schools, to plant those children in between the ears? And can't the fossil industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u192	Mr Bertema is confusing two things; he should not do that. What the fossil industry is doing is, under the guise of "we are good for you" making teaching material available in which this is said - let me give you an example: "Listen, until 2040, until 2050, even until 2070, we will remain dependent on fossil fuels," when we know that it must end so quickly. Some parties deny that. So that goes under the guise of spreading messages that are demonstrably bad for the child's future. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u193	And Mr Beertema's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u194	I don't understand the answer. This is not an answer to the question. I ask: may the fossil industry not, because that message seems to be wrong. You care; that little club of climate hysterics matters that that's not right. A very small club, a very small minority, matters. Kick Out Zwarte Piet and all that climate hysteria may be planted in those heads. I don't understand. You seem to be very selective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u195	That's the question. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u196	I understand that Mr Beertema does not understand, if he lingers in his metaphor and his indication that it would be a very small club. That's not true at all. Science tells us that. That's one. I regret that Mr Bertema is now running away. Two, when transparency is at stake, equal rules should apply to equal clubs. It's very simple, Mr. Beertema, you know that yourself. Then you shouldn't be acting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u197	Mr. Chairman. I'm just concluding here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u198	There's no point in that. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u199	Don't talk through each other, because you can't follow that. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u200	I conclude that I am dealing here with a cult, with a believer, who puts his own faith above all else, serves the rest, and that's it. I think that's very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u201	I haven't heard a question, but just a conclusion. That brings me to the next point. That is what Mr Beertema will say. This brings me to the psychological stress experienced by young people as a result of the climate crisis. In a country like New Zealand, this subject is given an explicit place in education. The Party for Animals already asked questions about this. What opportunities does the Minister see for creating space in Dutch education to accompany this relatively new development? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. In addition to their busy school life, many students and teachers work together actively in movements such as Fridays For Future, Youth for Climate, the Young Climate Movement, Teachers for Climate and many others. Social engagement must appeal to the Minister, and so must the fact that this type of activism is often very educational. If you see that young people are putting a lot of time and energy into a movement that can't be properly emphasized, what should, of course, have been done by adults long ago, namely curbing the climate crisis, what can the ministers do for practical support? Buddy's, as the minister responsible for training now has, are a very good way of doing so because it makes you talk, but I'm sure there are more good practical ideas. I'd like a response. If time allows me, and it does, I see, I'd like to come back to something. Recently, the Chamber received an update on the covenant on sponsorship. Among other things, it states that sponsorship should not affect educational content. Cooperation with the sponsor should also promote a healthy lifestyle. Cooperation should also contribute to the future of children. Those are very good intentions. That is exactly what is not happening, as we read in the publication of The Lancet, with which I started my speech. That's exactly what a company like Shell doesn't do. We would like to receive a response from the Minister to that article. Mr President, concluding. The conclusion in this debate must be that ministers can do much more, for example structural additional investment, but do not yet do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u202	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to a quiet reserve, Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66. "He's not that quiet," I hear. No, that's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u203	"Shut up"? Some would like to, but "reserve" is correct. Maybe. Mr. Chairman. Much has happened since the previous debate on teachers: three strike days, a covenant, a collective agreement in the p.o., a G4 emergency plan and a letter of fire from employers. The teachers, schools, municipalities, unions and employers all join the fight for more money for education. That's good news for D66. This helps us to continue the struggle, including the battle in the coalition. A lot has happened, but it's not enough for us. Mr. Chairman. In November, the unions, employers and the ministry signed a covenant on nearly half a billion extra education money to reverse the turn of the teacher shortage. Beautiful things have been arranged, such as raising teachers' salaries in secondary special education. In addition, the pot of money for work pressure reduction in primary education has been increased by 97 million. However, D66 finds it striking that all schools receive money in the fight against the shortage of teachers, while the problem of the shortage of teachers mainly focuses on the large cities, and even more specifically on schools with, as the minister says, a "difficult pupil population." That's where the need is the most. Teachers in these schools are doing much more than just teaching. Do all the kids have a winter jacket on? Did they eat this morning? Can they sleep quietly? There are larger classes, while there are more pupils with learning and behavioral problems. In short, it is a heavy burden on the teacher, especially when it comes to a novice teacher. In a tight labour market, teachers opt less quickly for these schools, which makes the shortage of teachers particularly severe, while these children need the most to improve their lives. D66 would therefore like to ask why, together with employers and unions, there has been a hit across the country rather than a targeted approach to areas where the shortage of teachers is currently the hardest hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u204	We have seen recently that Minister Slob has made additional funds available, especially for the problems in the major cities. I find it very striking, then, that Mr Van Meenen says: it must not be a sprinkle. It's like suddenly it doesn't count when there's a teacher shortage in Zwolle. Is that how I understand Mr Van Meenen? Should those children there wait a little longer for the teacher, because the children in Amsterdam are first? How am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u205	That 460 million has been distributed across the country and that 9 million tonnes that is a much smaller amount is specific to large cities. I do not know exactly how Mr Van der Molen sees this relationship, but I would ask the Minister if he is prepared to look at where the most serious problem is. Unfortunately, we do not have enough to solve all the problems, but if we then have to make choices, let us see where the biggest problem is. That's what I'm arguing for. That's what the big cities argue for. Even the employers argue for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u206	However, these employers do not argue in favour of penalising the schools which also have a shortage of teachers but which happen not to be in the Randstad. Mr Van Meenen did not answer that question. I'd like to give every school behind schedule, every school with too high a workload, those resources. I hear Mr Van Meenen making a distinction. I also understand that it's a big problem in the Randstad. That's why, as a CDA, we're okay with extra money being made available for it. But I cannot draw any other conclusion from Mr Van Meenen's story except that he is actually saying that the money that then ends up outside the Randstad is badly spent or at least should not end up there. Would you like to clarify that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u207	That reasoning is not entirely correct. This is the subject of a debate in our coalition, among other things, about how much money we are willing to pay for this at all. And the money we're willing to pay for this, including the CDA, is just too little. And you might want to think about that, too. For if Mr Van der Molen really wants to serve everyone in this country, he will agree with me that more money is needed than 460 million occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u208	That's true. That is precisely why much larger amounts have been agreed in this government agreement to invest in education. I had the opportunity to have a discussion with Mr Van Meenen in order to invest heavily in this. I'm glad the Cabinet does. But I see Mr Van Meenen constantly pretending to be fighting endlessly in the coalition to provide resources. I don't see it that way. There are always discussions between four parties and investments come out each time. And if the investment is insufficient, he and my colleague Rog will make a number of proposals for additional resources to add to that. So I would like to distance myself from the idea that Mr Van Meenen is the only great champion within the coalition. It just isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u209	I will not discuss the minutes of these meetings here, but let me be positive: I agree with Mr Van der Molen that we have discussed investment in money for a very long time in the formation. We did this with four parties, one of which wanted to invest hugely in education and other parties have different priorities. I fully respect that. But let us not pretend here that we in the coalition are constantly trying to override each other who can invest the most in education. It's not like that. I wish it were, but it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u210	Finally. And finally, because I just want to get to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u211	That's true. But it's my first interruption today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u212	That's why I'm allowing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u213	Mr Van Meenen is in fact constantly drawing up the picture that the fate of education in this coalition lies in the hands of Mr van Meenen. And that's not true at all! Mr. Van Meenen, you try to shield with that every time and pretend it is. And you're gonna say, "Let's not get carried away."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u214	Well, I said, if only!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u215	You're the one who does it all the time. You say that your Minister can submit a proposal on the possibility of a discount to obtain a second power. That's a motion filed by CDA and VVD, delivering 2.5 million to fix that. You have wholeheartedly supported it. But do not pretend that the whole fate of education in this coalition lies in the hands of Mr Van Meenen! That's total bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u216	It is, of course, nice that Mr Van der Molen is speaking this time about primary and secondary education, but the problems that are being raised there are really of a different order from what he normally deals with in higher education. The problems in the inner cities of the big cities are enormous. They call for immediate action. That's what I'm talking about. I am not talking about all the structural resources we have already achieved together. I'm very proud of that. But when I look at the situation as we have achieved it, I simply note that despite these investments, not enough has happened. That's what I'm talking about. So I say to the Minister: if we then have resources, such as the occasional means, why not put them most into the place where they are most needed? That's actually my question. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u217	You know me as a bridge builder, so let me try to bridge between the CDA and D66. If you guys are gonna go over each other behind the scenes a little more often, we don't have this discussion every time. When it comes to the places where it is most needed, I also want to make a bridge between the CDA and D66. Just like in Amsterdam, there are also difficult neighbourhoods in Zwolle, in Leeuwarden, in Helmond and in Rotterdam where it is hard work for the classroom. Mr Van Meenen must already feel the question coming. We have fought together in the past for smaller classes. Will we agree today to start with those small classes in the places where they are most needed, namely in schools where there are above average many children who are lagging behind in education, precisely because there are so many shortages and precisely because teachers are dropping out there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u218	That's a chicken egg discussion. I also have all kinds of other proposals that will make teachers' lives considerably better. Maybe I'll talk about that a little later. Then we're talking about appropriate education. Then we are talking about a reduction in the number of teaching hours. I have made proposals for this in the past. It's very difficult to actually materialize it all. I'm willing to do anything that can help, but we need to realize what's first thing we need. A perspective is needed for the profession, namely that it gets better. That will increase the influx, but what is urgently needed now is that the deficits disappear, rather today than tomorrow. We both know that trajectories around small classes or whatever will take a long time. That will undoubtedly be a question of formation. I hope we meet then. But we're not fixing this for a while today. I'd love to start today, but I'm afraid that won't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u219	Nobody says it's settled next year. That is not the case with this proposal. But Mr Van Meenen himself says that it starts with perspective for the teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u220	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u221	If a teacher instead of two or three now has perhaps seven or eight care pupils in his class and has to deal with children who do not get breakfast, has to do with children with parents in social care or with addiction problems, then the prospect of a smaller class can be exactly that perspective that makes that teacher put the teeth together for a while and says: you know, we'll be pounding for a few more years, but I know my work will eventually get better. What I presented earlier with the VVD and what I would like to present to you now is that this is a step that we can take. I am not saying that it was realized next year. However, I would say that we can live up to exactly that point that Mr Van Meenen mentioned, namely to offer perspective to the teacher at that difficult school, where he is most needed. So I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen: think again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u222	Every step we can take is welcome, whether it be in the area of smaller classes or in reducing the number of teaching hours or more hands in the classroom. I will always want to take such a step with Mr Kwint. But I do not want to tell Mr Kwint the story here either: if we decide today or table a motion on this matter, it will be settled tomorrow. That's not how reality is here. I am indeed prepared to take that step towards smaller classes at any time, which I believe is the answer Mr Kwint is looking for. But let us look closely at what is considered to be the most important thing in education itself. Are those small classes, more hands in class or less hours of class? I myself am also very much on the line of less teaching hours. But again, I also consider the SP to be a partner in that struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u223	We have recently read that the Minister in De Telegraaf says: that wage gap, we have to work with it, but in a next cabinet. I was just talking about it with Mr. Heerema. We heard Mr Van Meenen on the radio saying that the minister should not wait until he arranges it, that it should be done sooner and that the minister should put his fist on the table within the cabinet. Those were, of course, words to our hearts. From this corner of the Chamber we have already made regular proposals to deal with the problems in various ways. We will do that again today. Can we count on Mr Van Meenen on our side? Why don't you and I make a fist together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u224	Something in me now says that I hear a self-promotion coming, like: we're going to file another motion to solve all the problems in the world. Mrs van den Hul also knows that the world is more rebellious. You have just seen how the coalition relations are at this point. We're big friends, but we have different priorities. That's fine, too. That's why we're in this house together: because we disagree. But then it is a great art not only to slide here with paper and submit nice motions, but also to actually deliver euros. I am now putting my fist on the table myself, and more people here in this Chamber should do so in order to actually do so. That is the only thing that ultimately benefits teachers, that there is just a majority here and that the coalition can also agree with it. I would just like to say one more time: there are quite different motions on education that can reach a majority. So we really need to make sure it gets there. So if ma'am... Kwint, I was gonna say. I don't know how to do that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u225	They're very similar, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u226	That's not an insult. She's a nice woman, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u227	And I already have a very nice husband.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u228	If Mrs Van den Hul means "we're going to table another motion as we've had many and would you like to do it this time..." I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u229	You said that, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u230	I hear Van Meenen say that it requires a majority. I would like to give it back: let's build that majority together. I would like to look, together with Mr Van Meenen, at cover and all the other obstacles that I can already hear. Let's settle it together and form a majority with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u231	Proceed, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u232	Life is not that simple; so does Mrs Van den Hul. But we're gonna do everything we can. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one more time, if you will allow me, that teachers will only benefit from euros and not from paper. In this regard, then, when it comes to salary. I was at the big city fire note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u233	Let me get this straight. I understand from the PvdA, from GroenLinks and also from the SP I think... Do I understand correctly, let me ask Mr Van Meenen in such a way that, as far as you are concerned, all salaries are aligned, in primary education, secondary education, the gymnasium? I ask that because I can remember so well the time when we had a huge shortage of first-degree teachers, of academics in education. Are we indeed moving in the direction of bringing all these salaries into line?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u234	It is, of course, not the case at the moment in secondary education that there is only one salary scale. There are different pay scales. They have to do with the level of education and the place where you teach. I do not know how Mr Bertema sees it, but all those years I have worked in education, I have always assumed it as a kind of fact of life that it is logical that you earn less in primary education than in secondary education if you work there in the second degree area, even though you have both done HBO training. But, yeah, once PO started in action, I couldn't explain. No one could explain why that was. Since then, I find it hard to explain: that gap must be closed. It costs money. I'll come back to that later. But that's another thing than the fact that in secondary education you also "flatten" everything, I'll just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u235	I hear Mr. Van Meenen saying two different things. His conclusion is not right when he says: everything must be closed. Then the whole third grade, second grade, first grade just ends. Third degree doesn't even exist anymore. Then there's just one pay scale for everyone who works in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u236	That is not my intention, let there be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u237	Okay, but that's Mrs. Van den Hul's intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u238	So there is this gap between people who have actually done the same training and both do good work in education. They are rewarded differently for that and I want to close it, but I do not want to flatten the whole thing with it as it were.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u239	Mr Van Meenen is here as the guardian in the coalition of education. Now he knows with me that D66 isn't the only party that fights for more money in education. He knows that there may also be a growth fund from Mr Hoekstra and Mr Wiebes, with a lot of extra money. Is he prepared to fight together with the Christian Union to ensure that education in that growth fund can also get a visible and beautiful place in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u240	Sure, that's my party's bet, too. So I don't want that alone, I think my whole group wants that. I will check with you later, but I dare say that we can do so together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u241	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u242	Mr. Chairman. Then about the big cities and the letter of fire. A school in Amsterdam closed the doors for a week to think with the team what is needed to continue to give good education in this situation. I think that this school is very good and brave, but it is sad that it takes a strike week to have time for this and that the regular week does not give the teacher time to think about their profession, their school, their education and their own development. D66 continues to fight for a reduction in teacher hours. We are therefore looking forward to the study of the Education Council which we have requested together with the CDA and which will come to the Chamber before the summer. I hope that will finally give a majority in this Chamber the opportunity to make that choice. Meanwhile, the big cities have jointly sent a fire letter and a number of large cities have drawn up an emergency plan. I would like a response from the Minister to these emergency plans and the question is how cooperation and consultation with the G4 is going. Mr. Chairman. It has been about this for a while: as far as D66 is concerned, the gap has to be closed, but in the media it is about the most diverse amounts that would be needed for this, even though we have already been able to take intermediate steps in the salary. My question to the Minister is: what is really the amount needed to close that gap? This would help us to clarify this in the negotiations. The Minister stated earlier in an interview with De Telegraaf that it is his vision for the future to equalize these salaries and to place teachers, school leaders, supporters in the same collective agreement. My question is: does this come from the Minister's desire for flexibility and a different structure of powers, or is that also the idea that this gap should be closed? What steps can the Minister take to achieve this single collective agreement? Mr. Chairman. The Minister also surprised the Chamber with 9 million for a side-inflow route. D66 would like to know where that money came from. The side-inflow route now offers a lot of new teachers guidance and support. This is essential in the early years to preserve people in education and develop into strong teachers. I ask the Minister if this guidance and support will be part of the investment in the first few years. Can retired teachers, for example, be used as a coach? I'd like that myself, later when I'm old. Mr. Chairman. Also secondary education received 150 million from this covenant to reduce workload, and my question is: will this be used in the same way and under the same conditions as has happened in primary education? I also read the welcome news this morning that the Minister of Education can give €3,500 a discount on the tuition fees of each qualified teacher who decides to work in primary education. An excellent idea, and this is also true of the proposal to provide an internship allowance for pabo students. Then I come to my last minute, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u243	Some time ago, we were able to read a reconstruction of the budget debate on, among other things, education in the newspaper, which D66 did not renounce. It said that D66 wouldn't have asked for money for education at all. Now the question is: what exactly is this gap? How much money is that? Now I think two things are coming together. Is it true that as an educational party you didn't ask for anything in the budget because you didn't know exactly how much money it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u244	It's a nice story, but it doesn't add up. We always ask for money for education, but sometimes there's no chance. As Mr Heerema knows, we then tried again in the General Reviews. For example, we have managed to raise EUR 2 billion for housing, a major problem in our country, as you may know. In the same treatment of the Prince's Daypieces, we managed that 460 million occasionally. We even tried to make that amount structural, but that was not supported by the VVD among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u245	Can we then conclude that, if the Minister gives the exact amount of the difference between p.o. and vo, that the stakes will be on the next budget debate? I'm just looking. You're asking these ministers for figures. These seem to be very interesting figures for you. You want to do something with that. I'm just looking for the course of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u246	The point is, time doesn't stand still. Things happen all the time in that area. I hear very different reports about what is now needed to close that gap. This varies from roughly 250 million structurally to 600 million. I can't figure that out myself, so I'm asking the Minister. I can charge 600 million, and if it costs 250 million, we'll find a good destination for the other 350 million. However, I do not want to do it that way. That is why I am asking you to get an exact picture of this for once. For example, Mr Kwint has asked, and I have supported it, to get an idea of how high the teacher shortage actually is. Those are important data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u247	There was still a website for that or something. We are now about ten minutes watching some kind of live broadcast relationship therapy between the coalition partners. As amusing as I may find it personally, there is an embarrassing component to it. It's all like: I did ask something then, and you didn't, or you didn't want to, but he did, and then you were mad at me, and that's why you don't care, and I do. Meanwhile, that teacher shortage is like some kind of heather fire through education. I do not want to overstep Mr Van Meenen to use his words, because I know he is aware of that. Can we at least agree that, when we have completed the whole number debate on the exact extent of the pay gap, we are going to settle it together? I do not know which coalition parties would like to join. They're all staring at their phones at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u248	I would really like nothing more. I think it's been way too long. We have actually noticed that gap just before or just after the 2017 elections. Since then, we've taken steps. You acknowledge that, too. We all acknowledge it, but it's not enough. Even if we were to close that gap today, that will not immediately provide the solution. We have to be honest about that, too. Then the lack of teachers is not immediately gone. I hope Mr Kwint believes me. There's nothing I'd like more than to solve that, but I want a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u249	I believe Mr Van Meenen in that. If we are to be clear about the figures, then there must also be a moment when the live broadcast relationship therapy has ended in plenary. That's what we all have to say: okay, we know how much it is now, and we're gonna take care of it now. I'd like to believe all the ifs and buts about how complicated it is working with some people. But if that's what you want most, then we're just gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u250	That is too easy, I say to Mr Kwint. We're different parties. I just said that with all due respect. We are here together in this Chamber precisely because we differ. I have great respect for my colleagues in the coalition, including the fact that they have other priorities. It is then too easy to say: if we all agree with Mr.Kwint, it will soon be resolved. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. Mr. Kwint, I consider you a partner, but a partner must also seriously look for solutions. They must also be found with the help of the coalition. You can't talk to me about that alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u251	Okay, then I suggest you go to a roundup.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u252	I would like to use my last minute of speaking time to repeat what a wonderful profession that is in the context of recruitment for teaching. I say this to the people who are following that debate and who are not yet. Those who are, they already know. It's like drinking. The drinkers know why it's so bad. This is exactly the other way around. The teachers know why it's so beautiful. But hopefully there are also a lot of teachers, or people who are not yet, who are following this debate. Well, folks, it's really a fantastic job. And we're all gonna try to make it even more fantastic here. But one of the most beautiful things about that profession is that you never have to wonder if it matters. It matters incredibly if you can help young people and move them forward. It's the most beautiful thing there is. In short, your life is fulfilled. Become it all. We're gonna help and support you, but do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u253	I think everyone agrees with that here in the Chamber. It is a nice conclusion to the first term from the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u254	After the suspension, we will vote first and then we will have the arrangement of work.
