ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr N.H.M. Tummers. I ask the Members to stand up. Today we remember Nic Tummers, who died on 24 April last at the age of 92. He was a member of the First Chamber of the States-General for the Labour Party for almost 21 years, from 17 September 1974 until 13 June 1995. Nicolaas Hendrik Marie Tummers was born on 5 February 1928 in Heerlen. He went to the HBS in his birthplace for four years, but completed his secondary education in 1949 at the Secondary School of Arts in Maastricht. In Paris in 1954 he attended a sculpture course with visual artist Zadkine at the Académie de la Grande Chaumière. He was a visual artist at the time since 1950. From 1954 Nic Tummers also worked in education. First as a drawing teacher at the lts in Heerlen, later as a teacher of art history and drawing at the Bishop's College in Sittard and as a teacher of social building history at the Technische Hogeschool Eindhoven, the Academy of Architecture in Maastricht and the Academy of Architecture in Tilburg. From 1961 to 1974 he was also associated with the daily newspaper for the construction of Cobouw as an associate of architecture and visual art. His entire life Tummers continued to write about architecture, social building history and visual arts for various newspapers and magazines. In 1974 he was elected to both the Provincial States of Limburg and the First Chamber. He was involved in culture, Europe and traffic in this Chamber. In 1993, during a debate on the adoption of the Schengen Convention, Tummers spoke of a "caprice diplomaticique," a diplomatic whim. I quote: 'President, Schengen is the Nazareth of united Europe! With Nathaniel one might ask: 'Can something good come from Schengen?'" Nic Tummers was also active internationally on behalf of the First Chamber, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and of the Western European Union. In the Council of Europe he was also chairman of the Committee on Culture and Education for some time. He was President-in-Office of the Council on a regular basis as a Member of Parliament who was the longest in office, in the event that the President himself was not available. Like many other events in the Chamber, Tummers also made a drawing of such a moment, with the caption: "in memory of my first sitting in the cockpit of the First Chamber." His drawings were bundled at his farewell. On the cover of this collection is a drawing of the restoration of the plenary room, which Tummers always referred to as "the Sistine Chapel of Dutch politics." Nic Tummers spoke in 1995 at the farewell session on behalf of the outgoing MPs. At that time, the First Chamber, like now, met temporarily in the Knight's Room. Tummers said, and I quote again: "[We, the outgoing members] step back from the Knight's Room here today, from the office and from the office of the practitioner of the Ars Politica." That's how Tummers saw politics: as one of the arts. In addition to his social and political career, Nic Tummers was active in many boards and foundations, particularly in the fields of art, culture and architecture. For example, he was a member of the Limburg Cultural Council, a board member of the Netherlands Architecture Museum in Amsterdam, chairman of the Foundation for Forming theatre Limburg GL2 and chairman of the policy advisory committee Kunstcentrum Brabant in Tilburg. Among his many awards are some: in 1953 he was laureate of The Unknown Political Prisoner, in 1986 he was appointed Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion, in 1995 he was Commander of the Order of Orange-Nassau and in 2008 he was honorary citizen of Heerlen. Nic Tummers was known as a curious person who connected historical knowledge and activism with relativism and humor and with a great heart for Limburg and Europe. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-2.u2	Thank you.
