ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u1	The next item is the General Financial Reviews and the examination of Room Document 35570-IX. Today we have the first term on the side of the Chamber. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u3	Thank you, Mr President. As a result of the corona pandemic, the economy has entered a dive. We've been in the deepest recession since World War II from one day to the next. Last year there was a satisfied Minister of Finance, who was able to raise billions of overpaid taxpayers' money every year. Previously, this was 14 billion dollars, but now there is a crippled minister here, who sees one billion after another evaporate under his direction. The billions are flying out of the Ministry. It is impossible to keep up, not even for us as financial spokesmen. This year's public debt will rise by 74 billion and by another 40 billion next year. Instead of having a surplus, as we thought, this minister is 56 billion short this year and another 44 billion next year. Mr. Chairman. This is unprecedented. From a surplus of 14 billion last year to a deficit of over 100 billion this year and next year. In the second quarter the economy was completely shut down by the cabinet. It just didn't make any more money. All the cases were closed and hardly anything was spent. In this quarter, no less than 340,000 jobs disappeared. Especially flex workers andzzp'ers were screwed. But the future also looks gloomy. The CPB predicted a doubling of unemployment next year to 550,000 people. And that's the optimistic scenario. At a second wave, with a possible lockdown, that's where we're sitting now. The cabinet is trying to reduce the damage with emergency packages. With 46 billion of measures, businesses should be prevented from going bankrupt and people should lose their jobs unnecessarily. I understand that, and that is what the PVV has supported, but how can the CPB expect unemployment to double next year? And how can I read in the Millions Note that a bankruptcy wave cannot be ruled out? So we are pumping 46 billion in support money into the economy, while hundreds of thousands of people are still losing their jobs and a bankruptcy wave is ahead of us. Mr. Chairman. But it's getting even darker. At a second wave, we are sitting there now, and the CPB expects an unemployment rate of 8.5% and a deficit of 77 billion. At the moment 1.5 million people in the Netherlands are in danger. They work without a fixed contract in a sector where there is less demand for work. We're on a time bomb. For this reason, the PVV has called for aid not to be reduced in the next quarter and six months, but at least to be continued. Wouldn't it be a shame if, despite all the support, companies went bankrupt and people lost their jobs? Then it's all been for nothing. The PVV therefore finds it incomprehensible that the dismissal penalty is now turned into a discharge bonus. In the third support package, you can fire staff up to 20% of the wage bill without being reimbursed for your compensation. That's a perverse incentive to dump staff. Who made this up? Fire as a earning model! Last summer, we also saw companies getting back together, but we're all holding on to our hearts. Therefore, from the outset, the PVV has advocated a more flexible system of reimbursement of deferred taxes. I understand that this has now been taken over by the coalition. That is a good thing, because why can the Greeks and the Italians do 30 years to repay a loan from this minister, when our companies should do so in two years? Mr. Chairman. I also have the feeling that the crisis is being abused to push stickhorses through it. Never washed a good crisis, they must have thought in Brussels and at GroenLinks. In this crisis, too, the cabinet makes the wrong decisions on all fronts. We saw this in the previous crisis: then suddenly we were going to make massive cuts and even raise taxes significantly, so we were only going to sink further and deeper into the crisis. Fortunately, they are not making the same mistake. When I brought that up a few years ago, I was laughed at. Now they say: yes, we shouldn't have cut so hard and we certainly shouldn't have increased burdens. But now it looks like they're going crazy on the other side. The minister wants to invest himself out of the crisis, that's what it's called. He scatters billions: two times 2 billion for a BIK scheme, which no one is waiting for. No one knows what it means, and he expects us to sign for it. A $300 million solvency fund: is that a farewell gift for Hans de Boer? 5 billion for so-called nitrogen reduction. 4 billion for windmills, every year. A 20 billion national growth fund, no one knows what it looks like. Mr. Chairman. But there will also be additional money for asylum reception, another half a billion more, for integration, another half a billion more, for the culture sector, another half a billion more, Africa, half a billion more, and how else can it be an extra billion for Brussels? But the worst part is that Rutte signed this summer for a package of 1,800 billion for the European Union. 1 800 billion, to which the Netherlands can contribute 100 billion. How do you manage to transfer 100 billion of our hard-earned taxpayers' money to countries like Italy, Spain and Greece? That's $12,500 per family. And why? Because we are trapped in the euro and in the transfer union, where we will have to pay for weak countries until we are bankrupt. And in Spain they celebrate. There the siesta can be extended for another hour, at our expense. A country such as Italy, which has for many years been subject to budgetary discipline, is now being rewarded for bad behaviour. They receive 85 billion in their laps, gifts, and the Netherlands, the Dutch taxpayer, contributes 5 billion. They weren't asked. So we lost that money. And I am not even talking about the billions of cheap loans, the purchase of Italian junk bonds by the ECB up to 500 billion, the TARGET2 exposure of 500 billion and loans I said as much as 150 billion. It is becoming increasingly interesting for Italy to leave the euro. They'll be able to wipe out half of their sovereign debt in one go. An ixit. And the Netherlands is left with a hangover and a fat bill of 75 billion. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has already had a lot of debates on this. But it's still too scandalous for words. We therefore hope that next year the electorate will deal with this malpractice. Because that's what it is: malpractice. I'm sure no Dutch family is willing to donate 650 to a country like Italy, but that's exactly what's happening now, especially if you know that the average Italian is three times as rich as the Dutch. In Italy they now want to reduce taxes and throw extra benefits on our money. In Spain, which receives a gift of 71 billion, everyone will receive a basic income. And the planned tax increases are of course out of the question. And in France, which gets a grant of 51 billion, the care workers do get a fat salary increase of €2,000 from our money. The cabinet has been pretending for years that we are such a rich country, but we are not at all. The Netherlands has more debts than Greece. So why give away all these billions to abroad and to foreigners, while our own people are in the water's mouths? The NIBUD charged us with it: at present 1.3 million households face problematic debts and late payments. And because of the corona crisis, this is going to double next year. 2.6 million households that can no longer live: that is one in three families in trouble. These families have not been able to build up a buffer because of the government policy of recent years. Each year the purchasing power plus was promised but a minus was given. Under ten years of Rutte, the burden on citizens has only increased further, despite all the good promises, while the economy grew by 9%. The result? Almost 40% of Dutch people have less than €1,000 in their savings account. 40%, that's almost half of all Dutch families, doesn't even have €1,000. Then we don't talk about a rich country, Minister. Then we talk about poverty, misery, uncertainty, sleepless nights, food banks and stress. And if you lose your job as a zzp'er or lose your assignments, then you're really in bad shape. If you see with what ease this minister and the Prime Minister borrow billions to give to other countries and all to finance beautiful climate projects, you will be angry. And that's right. The cabinet again sets the wrong priorities. Under Rutte's offices everything became more expensive: the rents went up by 30%, the pensions were frozen, the VAT went up, just like the energy costs, the care costs and so on. Everything was getting more expensive. People are sick of being squeezed. They're looking for a little air in the wallet. The disposable We've barely made any progress. The state and business divide the cake and the families are shipped off with a crumb. In the answer to Question 47 on the draft budget, we could read: "In the last 30 years, the increase in real disposable household income has been lagging behind that of GDP." So anyone who doubts it, read the answer to question 47. Therefore, the PVV proposes to boost consumption. A purchasing power impulse, that's what we need. And the burden on citizens needs to be substantially reduced. They do the same in other countries, albeit from our money. They do this in Italy, Germany and Belgium. Only the Netherlands doesn't. Therefore, the PVV proposes to set the VAT on messages at 0% for a year, temporarily. The rents can be significantly reduced. They have gone up 30%, so as far as we are concerned they can be reduced by 15%. And the energy bill has to go down by $350. This purchasing power boost gives people more than €2,000 extra a year in the wallet, reduces debt problems and is good for business and employment. What the Netherlands needs now is purchasing power. And what we can spare as a toothache is more Europe, more windmills, more subsidies, more sustainability, more immigration and more development aid. So cut it out. It is high time to put the Dutchman back on one. It's our turn now. Thank you. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u4	No, Mrs Aukje de Vries is next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u5	Not a pin to get in, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u6	You must not provoke Mrs. Aukje de Vries. Thank you. You dropped something. I don't know if you need that for your contribution. No? I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance started his speech when offering the briefcase containing the Millions note 2021 with a story about Willem de Flaming. This explorer came from the beautiful Wadden Island of Vlieland. As a Friezin, of course, that appeals to me. It is also good to look in these special times at what we can learn from the past and from past years, and to see how we can translate that into now and into the future. Mr. Chairman. For the second time in just over a decade, we are talking about the biggest economic crisis in many years: first the credit crisis and now the corona crisis. Let me say straight away: these two crises are in very few respects alike. There is no point in looking at both crises through the same lens or putting the same blueprint on it. Just as a doctor doesn't prescribe the same medicine to two patients with different diseases, the government can now respond with the same policy recipes. The corona crisis is a unique crisis that no one could have predicted and that we have never experienced before. This calls for measures that we may never have thought possible. Solving a crisis means being flexible, responding to what is needed and acting, like the explorers of the past, and to an open view without ideological dogmas. The same goes for my own party, of course. I did not expect to have to say this again as the financial spokesman for the VVD, but it is a good thing that we have a large budget deficit and increase public debt. This is necessary in order to keep entrepreneurs and their employees alive and to mitigate the economic setback as much as possible. A sovereign debt is not necessarily bad and is sometimes even useful, but just as the VVD now looks at it more nuanced, I think that some parties should also do so with a number of things that they may always raise. Because all this is only justified and possible because we were financially well placed at the beginning of the corona crisis. That was not a coincidence, but it was due to sensible policies. The cabinet has built up a financial buffer for bad times, despite the fact that many parties in this Chamber would have preferred to spend that buffer at that time. It is only because of that sensible policy that we now have the financial space to deal with the much-needed crisis, by taking measures that help entrepreneurs, hopefully allow as many people as possible to keep their jobs and incomes and help the Netherlands through this crisis. Nevertheless, entrepreneurs and many people will feel the consequences of the economic downturn, due to the loss of their business, their job or their income. Our king said it strikingly: corona hits us all, from Terschelling to Aruba, from young to old. That message of unity, which we heard in the Grote Kerk, is in stark contrast to the words we often hear here in the Lower House, where the entrepreneurs are sometimes easily removed. That's what the VVD is resisting. Society is not a choice menu. It is not either entrepreneurs or the public sector. We will need both if we want to get back out of this crisis. Mr. Chairman. Every party in this Chamber cares about the public sector. That's what we do our job for. There are no parties that have the exclusive right to do so. We're not gonna win anything by putting the public sector in front of the private sector. We're all the Netherlands. We too, or just us, care and education. And if I may pass out a little bit: it is a bit easy that the accusations often come from parties who wanted to cut back on defence, for example. That too is the public sector. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the private sector. It allows millions of people to earn a living every day. It is precisely those entrepreneurs who bashen that are one of the most unwise things we can do in this Chamber while the entrepreneurs are currently fighting hard to survive, to keep their business going and to keep their employees in service. Those are just as well people we have to fight for here in the Chamber. But is everything business does by definition right? Definitely not. My group chairman has already made that clear in the past year. The VVD wants a Philips society. Just as the government has a responsibility for entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs also have a responsibility to society: paying taxes, being good for employees and contributing to society. And companies that end up with the sides of it, so we also address and deal with them. Mr. Chairman. We want a strong government that makes society work, looking at you and your problem instead of rules and the system, which has the power to make changes in society. But before certain parties start watering teeth I see the SP getting up a powerful government is not necessarily equal to a large government. A large government is the easy answer: high taxes, many officials, many rules, many forms and a lot of hassle. That's not what the VVD wants. A strong government is much harder than the simple answer alone. A strong government requires customization and flexibility to be there when it is needed, but also to give freedom when it is possible. That often doesn't happen at the moment. IT systems are too old and gambled to cope with changes. The cabinet itself notes that the service provided by the government is under pressure. There is outdated ICT, staff shortages and complex laws, rules and policies. People sometimes sink through the ice with terrifying consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u8	The VVD makes a bit of a caricature of many legitimate concerns that live in the country about how the account of the crisis will be distributed. Many people see a party that has been in power for years, which is now spending a lot of money on companies and is then unwilling to pay extra money for the public sector and is also unwilling to ask for something extra from business. On the contrary, if one discount, that one gift to business, cannot go on, it will be repacked in another package and it will go back to business. Does Mrs De Vries also see these concerns in society? Does she not agree with the SP that the bill for this crisis should be shared fairly, and that business should also have a fair bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u9	I've been trying to figure out how to get out of those shooter pits. I am sorry that the SP is getting into that again by talking about that present to the business community again. If the SP looks closely at what has happened in recent years, it can be seen that there has been 5 billion relief for citizens and about 5 billion increase in burdens for businesses. And I think we should speak with respect about all those entrepreneurs who are doing their best to keep their business together. It is not so much that we want to help these companies. There are all those behind it who earn an income, who have a job there. It would be good if the SP stood up for that and also for the people in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u10	This is a reflection moment from the VVD, because you guys did that charge increase on companies, didn't you? We didn't do that. That is what the Rutte I, II and III Cabinets have done. If you add that up, you'll see a burden increase for the companies. Congratulations on that, I'd say. We in the SP would have done it differently. You have to tax capital, and that does not necessarily mean that you have to tax labour within companies, for example. In recent times, too, there has been an increasing tendency to tax capital more lightly. The tax on profits is constantly being reduced. It was 48% in the 1980s and the cabinet wants to make it 21.7%. More than half a half in 30 years. Does Mrs De Vries, if she just looks at this situation honestly, also see that you could allow SMEs to pay less tax by, for example, reducing the burden on labour and not on capital, as the VVD is constantly doing? The first attempt with the dividend tax was the most observant way and then it went in an increasingly less eye-catching way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u11	I think we can find each other if we want to reduce the burden on SMEs. There is also a proposal for this in the budget. I'm glad the SP supports that, too. Mr. Alkaya of the SP notes that you should tax less on labour. Then you must also be honest: then you should be a great supporter of the BIK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u12	It is an important subject to continue on. I will continue to do exactly this in my own term. With a lot of good intentions you could recognize in the BIK an attempt by the cabinet to relieve the burden on labor and remove it from capital. But the problem is that nobody knows exactly how it works. If you had entered into the conversation with the unions, with us, we could have come to a much better measure. And what do we get today? Two additional paragraphs over 2 billion a year. Everyone sees that, of course, the intention is not to reduce the burden on labour, but simply to give a reduction to business. The packaging around it has changed and therefore the VVD thinks to get away with it. Mrs De Vries cannot think that the Netherlands is so stupid that we fall for that, that we here in the Chamber agree to the dividend tax 3.0 because she has incorporated the word "jobs" in the name?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u13	At least I'm glad the SP wants to look open to the BIK. It is true that there is a reduction in the wage charge for companies. I therefore hope for an open attitude from the SP. But for the rest, I think it's important to paint an honest picture. Business investment fell sharply in 2020. We think it is important to encourage them. Then indeed we choose a BIK, which stimulates investment, not for the purpose of helping those companies, but to ensure that they can continue in and after this economic crisis, and that the people there simply have a job. I hope the SP stands up for those employees, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u14	Finally. Hopefully we will get something out of this debate. If the VVD really believes that the burden on labour should be reduced and that that is the goal of the BIK, the Job-related Investment Discount... But now everyone's saying it's not gonna work. Economists say that. Implementing agencies say that this is a much too cumbersome and complicated way. If the VVD truly believes that the goal is to reduce the burden on labour and not to give another gift to the companies, is an alternative possible with the VVD? Can we also discuss alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u15	I'm getting a little tired of the "gift to business." That's what people are after. All those who work hard and try to earn their living, who are happy to keep their jobs with those companies. But let's talk about the BIK. Mr. Alkaya of the SP now interprets it so as if it is only about less taxing labour. We are also linking this to investment. You say that we are going to discuss the proposal and that improvements are still possible. I am glad that the SP also wants to do something for the business community. But we do attach ourselves to this BIK. I'm very honest with you about that. We think it is important that investment, including in the private sector, should just get back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u16	One of the main concerns of the PvdA is the rise in unemployment and the decline in employment. People need to go to UWV and welfare and there's a lack of jobs. I also hear Mrs De Vries talking about this. At the same time, Mrs De Vries says that politics, or the government in the Netherlands, is not a choice menu. But of course it is about political choices that we make here. If the VVD agrees with the PvdA that employment is one of the main concerns that I expect, is Mrs De Vries prepared to see if we can create as many jobs as possible with the two-time 2 billion reserved for the VIK, keep as many jobs as possible and reduce unemployment as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u17	What I said in my own contribution: I think it's not a choice of either-or, but of and-and. I think you should do both. You need to look at the public sector, which this cabinet has already done, and you need to look at the private sector, so you need to look at the companies. I find it a pity that the PvdA is actually only looking at that one particle. We can find each other when it comes to maintaining jobs. I think the cabinet is doing a great deal about that, too, with all the support packages that are available now. You can only light this out and say that this is not right, but I disagree. We believe that it is important that these investments should be restarted. You yourself saw that these collapsed in 2020. The Central Planning Bureau has also indicated that it is only slowly recovering. These investments are badly needed for companies to have those jobs and that growth again in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u18	Mrs De Vries pretends to present a general picture of the Netherlands, that that would be sensible and that the rest is taking a little populist stance. I'm not gonna let that get to me. For example, if you look at the investments in construction, with a lot of private companies and a lot of people working there, then a lesson from the previous crisis is: don't lose them again. The housing shortage is immense and has only increased in recent years. It has been proven that, if you pay extra money for this now, you can keep construction workers at work, solve the housing shortage and also do something about sustainability. I think that is a much more sensible use. That's what this is about. $2 billion is being reserved. The group chairman of Mrs De Vries has simply done it to say that if the Chamber does not want to do so, we are going to reduce the tax on profits, even if it does not create jobs, which I do not care about. That's the position of the VVD. That is the party that does not really see what it means for employment. Or are you willing to do that? Because that is what I hope to get out of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u19	I regret that the PvdA is trying to create another contradiction. I think we can find each other on a lot of points when it comes to tackling and stimulating the housing market. I think the cabinet has included a large number of plans in this Millions note. More needs to be built, absolutely. That is an important development. Money is invested in that too. I'm sorry to put that contradiction down myself. I think we should look at the public sector and the private sector, but we should also look at the housing market, absolutely. Or housing, if that's what you prefer to call it. That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u20	I am very curious to see where Mrs De Vries's VVD is about to lay the burden. We see a whole story about business, but in business there are winners and losers. The question is how does the VVD want the winners to contribute to resolving the financial consequences of this crisis and how does it think that a proportionate burden-sharing can take place in the future, rather than what we have seen, namely that the public in particular will be billed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u21	I think it is important that we resolve this crisis now and do the right things now. I also said that that is why I am fine with having the budget deficit that we have, even though I never thought we would have that again, with an increasing public debt. But in this Millions note you will also see a number of measures aimed at business, for example. A number of proposals have been adopted by the Ter Haar Committee to take a number of measures. I think this is a good move. I think it's also a good move that we're going to look at equity and debt. These are developments with which I think we are doing it more fairly towards business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u22	I agree with Mrs De Vries that these are unprecedented times. Last year I had a motion in which: these are exceptional financial times. That motion was about pensions. I couldn't imagine at that time that it would have become as exceptional a year later as it is now. The Ter Haar Committee, agreed, contains very good proposals. But I still don't feel the beginning of how to give citizens the comfort that they don't have to pay the bill when we're going to bring that budget deficit back to no matter what level. It will be returned. Then who pays the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u23	I'm not going to anticipate that right now. We just had a press conference yesterday in which much tougher measures were announced. They will also have the necessary effect. Already speculating on where we might have to do something again in a number of years, I am not going to participate in that now. I think we're busy solving this crisis right now and we need to do the things we need to do. That's what's most important right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u24	Then I suggest that you... Oh, first Mr Tony van Dijck and then Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u25	Mrs De Vries herself mentioned yesterday's press conference. We're in a second wave. That's a fact now. The measures will be stricter and stricter. Does Mrs De Vries now think that this is the time to reduce the NOW regime for many companies, while the thumbscrews are being turned back on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u26	I think it is important that we look again and again at what is needed, what we can scale down and where we need to take another step. Of course, a step has been taken with the Tozo: we take the power key off. A motion has been adopted, and I assume that it will be carried out swiftly by the Cabinet, on the payment system for taxes. That's what you were talking about. That's gonna get picked up. Companies may be granted a longer delay of payment. And then you need to see what else is needed. I think I have also said in previous debates: do what is necessary. I can't predict the consequences right now. I don't know what's going on in the next few weeks. We will always be open to looking at it openly to see what is needed. In that sense, I think that perhaps we can find each other there in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u27	I ask this because we have just voted on an amendment by Mr Wilders and Mr Léon de Jong, which says that the NOW scheme and the Tozo scheme should not be reduced further, and the VVD will vote against it, knowing how difficult the companies will be in the next quarter, especially the catering industry. Winter's coming. Companies have to close again at 10:00. In other words, I do not understand why you do not vote in favour of such a detailed amendment by the PVV, while you then have to rethink how difficult these companies will be. But we know they're gonna have a hard time. We know that a lot of people are about to lose their jobs. You gotta want to get ahead of that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u28	I believe that an amendment by Mr Aartsen on the Tozo was also voted on this afternoon. A motion has been tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Lodders on the payment arrangements. I think it is a good thing that the cabinet also talks with the parties: what impact do these new measures have on companies and what could need to be changed? Maybe I can pass that question on to the cabinet: do they want to enter into these talks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u29	I found the Philips society of the group chairman of Mrs De Vries one of the most beautiful images of recent years in the General Reviews. Mrs De Vries gave some underwater stitches towards parties in this Chamber who occasionally are a bit critical of business. Does Mrs De Vries think that Tata Steel is entitled to a BIK discount?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u30	That depends on what investments they make and how we are going to shape that BIG. But I find it a pity that GroenLinks also puts that image here. This Millions note even contains a bill adopted by GroenLinks, aimed at large companies. I find it a pity that there is still a hint of this: it is a gift to the business community. I would like us all here in this Parliament to fight for those companies, those hard-working entrepreneurs, and the jobs they provide. Unfortunately, I sometimes miss that. I had also hoped that this crisis might bring some reflection to GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u31	I'm working on another bill. I hope that will leave Unilever in the Netherlands. Then maybe we'll even have another Unilever society. But it is very silly of Mrs De Vries to put left-wing parties or parties in this Chamber every time that they evoke an image that companies are wrong. I didn't bring up the Philips society for nothing. I didn't bring up Unilever for nothing either. But the point is... Why did this law adopted by the Cabinet, on the liquidation loss scheme, receive support? Because investigative journalism showed that Shell pays zero euros profit tax. The VVD also rightly did not consider this to be sustainable. I therefore believe that we should continue to monitor how companies behave in practice. Do they pay taxes properly? Or do we think the law should be amended? My concern with the BIK is that eventually another very large amount of that 2 billion goes to companies that don't need it, or in economic terms: there is a deadweight loss of 80% to 90%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u32	The proposal for loss relief has simply been taken over. We very much support that. However, I do think that GroenLinks should not be playing the sacred game here that they always speak very neatly about business. I also hear regularly: the gifts to the business community. While I see it as: helping companies through this crisis and supporting them in making investments that are needed. I do not necessarily want that for those companies but for all those people who work there, who earn their living there and who are also in uncertainty. I think we should also have a little more in mind for the people who work in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u33	Finally, Mr President. My point is this. I really agree with Mr Nijboer. Of course, we are also simply talking about jobs, employment and investment. This also happens a lot in companies and in the public sector, but there seems to be a kind of two-dimensional policy at the VVD. Take care pay. An ESC committee will have to study for months to see if we can finally come to the conclusion that we need to do something about care salaries, especially at the bottom. They have to study for a long time. But for business there is a budget of 2 billion, without us actually knowing exactly what to do with it. That's a two-size policy that makes me a little creepy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u34	I am sorry that the picture is again presented that this is the only thing we would do for the care sector. For next year there will be as much as 1 billion for salaries, structural, in the budget. There is a health bonus, for which 1.5 to 2 billion has been released, occasionally. 130 million has been made available to make working in healthcare more attractive. I find it a bit unfortunate that such a one-sided story is told: a commission is being set up and we give gifts to the business community. That's a contradiction I wouldn't choose. I would say: let us both give care a good place and appreciate business and ensure that it gets through the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u35	You will not hear me say that this is a gift for business. As far as I'm concerned, it's just a gift: two times two billion, this year and next year. I notice that Mrs De Vries always strikes back a bit catty when she gets criticism. I would like to say that, Mrs De Vries, you do not need that at all; you stand for the 2 billion; so did your group chairman. But we don't have any information about it at all. In the last interrupt debate, you said yourself: we are going to work it out. I think that a lot of Dutch people, and not just the MPs, are entitled to that, so that they know what this is a solution for. How are you going to ensure that this guarantees jobs? How will this be further developed? Why don't you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u36	I think the contours are outlined. We have also received a letter from the Minister or the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. I would like to get rid of that with a number of outlines of how that could be used. We see the importance of investment. That is why we are committed to giving this impetus to companies. I hope you also have the open attitude you expect from me when it comes to the BIK, but I don't get that impression after the reactions. A number of parties have already chopped up this arrangement about five minutes after the briefcase with the Millions note was offered, and I do not think that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u37	Still hitting back catty again in response to the question that was asked. I think it was Louis Asscher of the PvdA who said: we can hardly talk about an arrangement that we don't know how it works. If the idea is to hold on to a great many jobs with this scheme, then we must also make demands to ensure that this is done. The conclusion is that that just hasn't worked out. Mrs. De Vries doesn't know. We do not know which companies are eligible. Does it mean that companies in the Netherlands have to order goods and make investments? I've asked questions about that. It's just unclear. I find it really too easy for Mrs De Vries to say that everyone is cutting off an arrangement that they do not even know. No, the problem is that we want to be able to test it, as with the dividend tax... It's kind of a gutsy thing, I hear colleague Tony van Dijck say. You can't do 2 billion for something because you feel a problem somewhere, then reserve that amount and then think again about what problem you solve with it and how you make sure that that ensures that people keep their jobs? That's what it's meant for. So I ask the question again, through the President: can Mrs De Vries explain to us what the problem is, how it is going to work out and how we are going to safeguard jobs? And don't come up with... Mr President, I would like to add a comma, with your approval. Saying "Mr. Azarkan, you do not want to invest in the Netherlands" is as nonsense as saying "I do not want companies to create jobs or pay less tax." The point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u38	The interruption is getting longer and longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u39	Yeah, it's getting longer. But if we pull out 2 billion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u40	And catty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u41	And catty. If we pull out 2 billion, we have a duty to explain why the 2 billion is needed. Not because we don't want to help companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u42	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u43	... but because we want to explain to the Netherlands why it is important that we use 2 billion taxpayers' money for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u44	Indeed, as the President said, perhaps a somewhat catty interruption by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u45	Back. There!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u46	We see that, I hope, Mr Azarkan will also see that these business investments have collapsed considerably. Of course, we think it is important that this should have a good effect in the near future. I have not yet got to it in my story, but I will also ask the Minister to ensure that it gets a good effect and that we learn from what the WIR has brought, a previous investment deduction. We shall also look at this at the moment, on 5 October, I believe, as the cabinet has promised to do, that the whole effect will be here. But I also hope that Mr Azarkan will open his eyes, because that would be important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u47	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u48	And I hadn't even gotten to the BIK in my story yet, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u49	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u50	I was still with the strong government. An ambitious and decisive approach seems to be lacking. A strong government is not regulated in one day. But I still want to encourage the cabinet a little bit. For example, look at the project Work on implementation. What is the government going to do in concrete terms to tackle this problem? How will people and companies for which the service is provided be involved? And how does this cabinet deal with the grievance of regulation? Mr. Chairman. This budget is aimed at the future, not only helping us out of the crisis, but also strengthening our future earning capacity. "We don't need economic growth," you hear. But I strongly oppose that. That's a lesson you shouldn't want to learn. Without growth and entrepreneurs, there is no room for the more than necessary money for the public sector. For police, for defence, for education, for care and for a social safety net. This is also evident in this crisis. We need a good investment climate, not as an end in itself, but to preserve and realise jobs. So I would like to say that the next lesson is that the Netherlands needs more investment, to improve its earning capacity and to strengthen our society. It is therefore a good thing that investments are brought forward by the ministries. The question to the Minister is why it is not possible to bring forward much more investment. And the public sector can't do it alone, so we need private investment as well. Business investment is falling by 6.8% in 2020 and catching up is needed. The BIK helps with that. How is this Minister going to ensure that it becomes an effective measure and that it does what it has to do? Mr. Chairman. Given this lesson, the VVD is therefore also positive about the growth fund for more economic growth through investment in knowledge, innovation and infrastructure. But the VVD does give a warning. Minister Hoekstra, watch your case! It must be prevented from becoming a political grabby pot. It is therefore a good thing that an independent committee should be set up to advise against using the money for an ever wider definition of investment. It should not become a thousand things, which we ask ourselves afterwards where the money has gone and which we say is too fragmented and does not know what effect it has had. How's the cabinet gonna prevent this? The growth fund is not the only one that must ensure more economic growth. Many things are also just on the regular budget. The VVD calls for this to be made better and more explicit in the budget. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr. Chairman. Maybe the last lesson towards the future, strengthening middle incomes. This is the backbone of our society and deserves permanent attention. Due to rising healthcare costs, higher pension contributions and the cost of the energy transition. If we don't do something, the middle incomes literally pay the bill, and we don't want to. How does the Cabinet intend to prevent this? How does the cabinet ensure that these assassins of purchasing power for middle incomes do not get out of hand? How do we prevent a structurally rising care premium, energy premium, pension contributions and other costs? Can the cabinet go into that? An example. Why has the cabinet not also agreed on the increase in local burdens and support for entrepreneurs in the corona support for the municipalities? Or how realistic is the predicted increase in the care premium by €37? And when will we finally get a windfall formula so often advocated by my group? How are we going to take advantage of lessons from the corona crisis, such as smart care, remote care and less dependence on medicines and tools? The Dutch Healthcare Authority has written a good report on the lessons from this crisis. An additional opinion has been requested, but how can we expect this additional opinion now and when? Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is not over, not even the economic consequences. Much is unclear and still uncertain. There will be plenty of lessons to be learned. We're gonna be doing this for years. My group chairman said it strikingly in the General Political Reviews: "Everyone wants to know: when will it be ready, how will it be? But to be perfectly honest, we all don't know it here either. We don't know when it's over. We don't know if it's gonna get much worse at first. And when we get rid of corona and have a vaccine, it's still not normal. Then we must begin to repair the damage and build a stronger society. But luckily, there's also good news. In the end, it's all gonna be okay." That does require that we stick to the rules as best we can, so that we can avoid a second lockdown. This would have disastrous consequences for our economy, for people's jobs and income, for entrepreneurs and for public finances, as well as for our health and well-being. Let's all try to avoid that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u51	Thank you. Mr Stoffer and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u52	It was, of course, an excellent contribution by Mr De Vries. I hear a number of things that raise questions with me. Actually, the most exciting thing is that investment fund. I like that the VVD also indicates that she is critical. I am. That will be reflected in my contribution. But my question to Mrs De Vries is whether she has an idea of what should now be under the investment fund, which does not fit into the regular government budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u53	I believe that the aim of the Investment Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................. I also think it is important for the independent committee to carry out a proper assessment of this. Of course, there are a lot of things in there for growth. I have already asked for this in the budget. We think it should be really extra, because of course we are going to borrow 20 billion to make this possible. I also think that we should be very critical of the fact that it does not go to all kinds of things that we ourselves may find very nice or logical. We must set aside such an independent committee in order to keep an eye on the fact that that objective is not lost in sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u54	This answer could also be given to me. Because I can't get much further than that. So it's actually on that committee now. But we have to say yes or no to that fund right now. I don't have a single image of what's underneath. Does Mrs De Vries have any idea of what kind of investment that might be concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u55	The cabinet has presented a growth letter. There are more things in there than just this growth fund. There are a number of additional issues. I think it is very clearly stated that the fund is about knowledge, innovation and infrastructure. That is also what we consider important for this additional economic growth. But I don't want to be tempted right now to say that it should be this or that project. I think we'd go to hell with that. I think we have learned that from previous funds in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u56	We were just talking about that $2 billion present, but now there's a $300 million present. What I don't understand so well is this. If you're having a hard time, like a lot of people at the moment, because of the corona crisis and you're asking for a concession from, say, €1,500, then you'll be turned inside out. But what does the VVD charge for the $300 million? How is that tested?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u57	I don't know yet. I think there's a reservation in the budget. It doesn't say we're gonna do it either. I think the Minister has explained that before. I therefore think it is important for the Cabinet, when it would like to propose to participate in the fund, to look closely at what exactly it is intended for, whether we really need public money for this or whether it can only be done with business money and how we are going to achieve those goals that we would like to achieve. I think it's a reservation. You speak of a gift to business again. I believe that there is a reservation in the budget to see if it is a good plan and whether we, as the Empire, can or should contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u58	But here's what's wrong. If you ask for a small concession from the government because you've worked your teeth, if you're a taxi driver, you're seeing your income fall and you have to make investments in preparation for the fight against the corona crisis, because you have to take measures, then you're just being turned inside out. Then you'll have to report to the county. You're gonna have to take everything with you. You need to see what your partner deserves. You need to see if you still have power. I would like to point out the ease with which Mrs De Vries of the VVD says: well, we just have EUR 300 million; we have already prepared that for big business. This is what is wrong in the Netherlands. The big money gets 300 million without scrutiny and if you apply for €1,500, you will be turned inside out. People at home don't understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u59	I think it's a little too easy to say this. In the aid package for companies in the context of the corona crisis, which included tens of billions of euros, we made the money very easily available, because we wanted to get the money to the people quickly. Also with the taxi driver, if it was about the Tozo for example. So I think you're making it a caricature again, which makes me uncomfortable. I believe that we have rightly spent those tens of billions to get people and businesses through the crisis, but certainly also the workers who work in the companies. I think that Mr Azarkan is going a little too short there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u60	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u61	Mr. Chairman. In the General Financial Reviews last year, I expressed my optimism about the tide in politics. There seemed to be a broad political rethink. After 40 years of a policy that defended market forces and flexibilisation as rational choices without alternative, there was a turnaround. Politics put itself back on the stage. A year later, that sunny feeling that I had a year ago is far away. Corona has suffered many casualties and there may be a second wave at the door. We're gonna have an uncertain fall. Also socially hard-working people, and entrepreneurs, Mrs De Vries, have seen the land disappear under built-up guarantees and life projects. They too fear the near future. Nevertheless, despite this gloomy, this coronasomberte, optimism about what politics can mean has not been lost. For who would have thought a year ago that arrangements for which we normally take a year could be rolled out within a few weeks? The concerns about public debt, which so affected an effective crisis policy in the previous crisis, have disappeared like snow before the sun. The corona crisis has only been an impetus for the political recalibrate. The forceful government is back. Not because such a government is an end in itself, but because we see, just in corona time, that it protects us and gives us direction where markets fail. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet deserves praise for its economic actions in the first weeks and months of crisis. GroenLinks is once again counting on an adequate and social approach in perhaps a new upcoming lockdown. We have to do everything we can to prevent it from being necessary, but we can't rule him out either. How does the cabinet view a possible necessary adjustment of the third aid package? Can the phasing-out be limited or deleted, for example in the NOW? I'll mention all those parameters that we could work on. How do we deal with fiscal measures? The legal basis for a number of crisis measures has been laid precisely in this budget and in this Tax Plan. Can they be adapted quickly again? The cabinet is already deleting the asset test in the arrangement forzzp'ers. That's good. But why not, or right, the partner test? I would like a response, also to the cabinet's strategy for the coming period. Besides the sincere compliments, there's also something rubbing. Our own CPB mathematicians came up with an unmistakeable appeal in the Macro Economic Exploration: tackle inequality. According to the CPB, inequalities in health, education and the labour market are increasing. Special attention is paid to our young people and to how they are disproportionately affected. Unemployment is the highest among them. Ten years after the financial crisis, our young people will find themselves in a cold bath again. It is good that, as GroenLinks, we have been able to make agreements with the cabinet with the latest support package to help them and to give them more opportunities for assistance and help in finding a job. It's a good step, but it's not enough. A second wave will further fade the prospects for young people. And what are we going to do for them? Not for nothing did I just ask the question about the partner test at the Tozo. Flex workers and zzp'ers often young people are affected by the traditional safety net. Is the cabinet prepared, if the support package needs to be adjusted, to strengthen the gaps in the safety net for them, even if only temporarily? Mr. Chairman. Then I also have a very specific question for cabinet and coalition. I know that social service is important for some parties in this Chamber and perhaps for all of them. But there's still money on the shelf. At the same time, we are seeing a major problem in the number of placements for young people in this crisis. I think it's wise to put a slide in those resources. Cooperation is important in times of crisis. I hope that we can discuss this with the coalition and with the cabinet. I'd like a response. I can be brief about the inequality in housing. We're already talking about that. In the middle of the crisis we have the biggest rent increase ever and there is a housing shortage of already 30.00 homes. We can do that, and we need to do more. Mr. Chairman. In June of this year, some central bankers from the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and France said the following. We cannot protect ourselves from the climate crisis with quarantine. We need to think more strategically about how we're going to shape the recovery. The high priests of financial-monetary technology look at us and ask for a vision of that recovery. Exactly there it rubs when I look at the cabinet plans. What exactly is the green strategy when it comes to how to get out of this crisis? We already saw it at the APB. It concerns, for example, the national growth fund. It is an important subject for the future of our country. That's not the difference of opinion. However, the focus seems to be one-sided on the impact on GDP growth. For my group, it is not sufficiently clear how this fund should then contribute to the necessary transitions that we as a society stand for, such as the transition to a climate-neutral society. According to GroenLinks, it is at least necessary to ensure that investments are not at the expense of key climate and biodiversity standards. How does the cabinet see that? What about the House's budget law? The ministers of EZK and Finance decide whether growth fund funds come directly from the fund or run through other budgets. Where it runs through another budget, we still need an occasional supplementary budget. For example, sometimes there seems to be no budget right for the Chamber. How's that? Why didn't the cabinet opt for an institution law for a budget fund? Here, too, the Prime Minister at the APB has indicated that this discussion needs to be continued. I look forward to hearing the views of the Minister of Finance. Mr. Chairman. I also question the strategy followed in relation to other transition policies. GroenLinks is relieved that the cabinet does not choose to postpone the CO levy as a whole. But at the same time my group does not count on real wealth. Not in a literal sense, because in the coming years this tax will yield zero euros, and not in a figuratively sense, because the cabinet in climate policy is too often the student who learns to get a 5.5 and then always reaches a 5. Too often, when it comes to climate change, the cabinet does not even have a six-way policy. In the meantime, Europe has increased its ambitions towards 55%, and economists and experts say: a good recovery from crisis can only be a green recovery. This cannot go hand in hand with delay for major polluters. Mind you, Tata Steel was the great leader of the resistance against a serious CO tax. Now it turns out that this company wasn't about the profitability or the financial-economic future of the company. In any case, they were working on constructions to channel money abroad or to keep it out of profit tax. I'd like a response. After all, what is the green strategy of the cabinet in this respect? What extra homework is the cabinet going to do for that? Can we, I ask the Secretary of State, be sure that the flight tax will be introduced as of 1 January 2021? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the solidity of the strategy pursued, I really call it the BIK. There are many things we can disagree politically, but we must agree that policies must have a sound basis. It is not for nothing that such a justification is a legal obligation under Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. So far the BIK disappoints in that and that is not only because we have yet to receive the legal text. Even the letter we received half an hour before the debate does not give much clarity. The question is above all, what exactly is the purpose of this BIK: to preserve jobs or stimulate investment? Is it a crisis measure and, if so, why does the budget remain in the books? And what about effectiveness? Because when it comes to investment, how big can the cabinet say is the deadweight loss? How will the cabinet not only remove criticism from the opposition, but also from the Council of State, the Court of Auditors and economists? I have the same kind of questions about the announced solvency fund. The cabinet explicitly states that the idea for this fund comes out of the box of VNO-NCW and admits that it still needs to be considered whether this fund solves a problem at all. In the meantime, 300 million has already been set aside. Why is that? Mr. Chairman. As rapporteur on the Quality Insight operation, I feel quite uncomfortable about this, but also politically I do not feel comfortable. The contrast with other cases is too great. Take care pay. Here too, it is clear that there is a political choice that has proportional budgetary consequences. We know, here in The Hague and in the sector itself, that starting salaries are relatively low. We have made a promise for extra appreciation, but in the meantime let us first breed an ESC committee for another six months on the basis. Why do we have to study here and extend decision-making for us and not with the BIK and the solvency fund? As far as I'm concerned there are too many ball-balls played with article 3.1 and that doesn't suit me very well. It is not for nothing that the Council of State is critical of this very point, on the basis of policy. It worries me. I ask the Minister as guardian of the Compatibility Act and as head of economic crisis management to reflect on that. Finally, Mr President. The moment at the APB two weeks ago was striking: the Prime Minister came to the block abroad and said that this could probably be dealt with briefly. That is not a reproach to him, but it does say something about how we deal with foreign affairs in The Hague. Because don't we lay the boundaries for our own good a little too often with Lobith and Hazeldonk? This spring, we read in an urgent AIV opinion that it is in our own interest to invest 1 billion in development cooperation. The importance of this will only increase as global infections continue to increase. Here too, it is the experts who make a sobering appeal to us for vision and future-proof action. And then what is the strategy of the cabinet? Out of the 1 billion of AIVs, 500 million were left after a lot of marriage. Pretty good, but 350 million of them were needed to close the regular holes. The ODA system has created an additional hole, which is then polished away by a cash slide from the future to the present. It wasn't big news, I know, but it's exactly why I'm going to bring it up again. For once again: do we have our strategic priorities in order, what choices are in our interests and are we ultimately prepared to give them with financial choices? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u62	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "What's the time then? As long as no one asks me, I know. But if I have to answer that question, I don't know anymore." Says Augustine. What Augustine describes here in terms of time is also the feeling that I get at how we should read budgets. This Millions note was written under a star, where we saw the contagion rates rise, but it still seemed manageable. We now live two weeks after the presentation of the Millions Note. We're seeing a rapid increase in hospital admissions. Public action needs to be strengthened and the number of pin transactions reduced. This is about the controllability of the virus. At the same time, we need to look further at how to restore the economy. Controlling the virus and working on economic recovery are not just things of government. Households and entrepreneurs also play a role in this. If we are to survive this period with as little damage as possible, we must therefore invest not only in euros, but also in jointness and in mutual trust. Next year's Millions Note presents a series of measures, such as bringing forward already planned investments in infrastructure, for example. In addition, investment in key technologies is being made through the National Growth Fund. Furthermore, the Millions Note also aims to stimulate investment in industry over the next two years through the Job-related Investment Discount. Although we think these are important elements for recovery, we are missing something, namely investing in the relationship between government and business, between city and region. The Millions note also gives clues for this by explicitly naming the Rhineland-Palatinate thinking. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, the Rhineland-Palatinate's thinking is not just about polling and palavering in committees with unions and employers, although I am one of those who believe that we are too often too harsh about it. No, it's also how we shape corporate governance. It is also about involving more parties than just the shareholders, in increasing the involvement and responsibility of employees and other stakeholders, which is really something other than worker self-management. The government can also contribute to this, for example through state participations. Previously, my group colleague Palland, together with Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks, asked for an investigation into a place for an employee seat on the Supervisory Board. Also, those involved in the Corporate Governance Code have called for a firm anchoring of a number of aspects of that code, for example the obligation to establish the right of existence, the corporate purpose of companies in the statutes. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this? With this idea my thoughts go back a bit in time. Good relations between politics, business and society have not often taken for granted, for example in the 1970s and 1980s. That was a reason for Shell-topman Gerrit Wagner to get involved in the public debate. The captivating Wagner said he felt hurt at that time because entrepreneurs were being looked down on. Although everyone recognizes that we need to emerge from the crisis together, my group notes an enormous polarisation in the public debate. The public sector is confronted with the private sector. And also in the words of people who oppose government measures to prevent the corona virus from spreading, there is distrust of the pharmaceutical industry, for example. For example, we could read this in an interview in Trouw with influencer Dorien Rose Duinker, founder of the whatsapp group Watchdogs, the group in which #I don't care anymore. And the same parallel, the same gap the CDA sees back when it comes to city and region. In the region there is a great deal of attention to be paid to the problems of the shortage of teachers and nurses who can and want to work in the city. But the region does not always experience the same compassion when it comes to the small number of psychiatrists outside the Randstad or the follow-up problems of the GP in the village, let alone when it comes to infrastructure bottlenecks. In the region, new measures can also have many far-reaching consequences, which also increases the division. Think, for example, of introducing the freight tax, which could lead to the loss of many jobs in the Maastricht region. How does the Minister look at a type of Wagner Commission, with the task of bridging the tensions between government and industry, and between Randstad and region? How wise is it in the context of the economic development of the region to implement the freight tax now, also because SEO's report indicates that this could lead to the loss of 3,000 jobs around Maastricht? Mr. Chairman. The gaps I have just described are also reflected in the ashes of society and climate. Making our economy robust also means making it more sustainable. However, we see that the consequences may be uneven. For this reason, the CDA considers it important to strike a careful balance between the burden on business and the burden on ordinary citizens when implementing climate action. In the Millions note, we saw that the increase in collective burdens from 2023 had to do with a series of factors, but as far as I could see, they cannot be traced back to rising environmental burdens. Is this true? And does the Minister assure us that the burden of burden does not eliminate the acceptance of climate action? Mr. Chairman. Time is also something in which one can look ahead, but sometimes the nebula of time hinders the view of reality, while the Dutch budget is built up in such a way that it has to provide guidance for events of the future with its three expenditure frameworks: one for care, one for social security and one for the rest, the state budget in a narrow sense. The budget should help Parliament to understand the direction in which long-term expenditure is to be spent. Now the Minister has chosen to stop the additional expenditure in these frameworks. The long line is then temporarily mixed with high, additional incidental expenses. As a result, it is an additional search for structural expenditure, its development and incidental expenditure for a Member of Parliament. This makes it particularly difficult to monitor expenditure in the long term. In fact, I expected that the Millions Note 2021 would have reflected on the one hand regular expenditure and on the other hand a separate overview of the aid measures related to the corona pandemic; a separation between structural regular expenditure and incidental expenditure related to corona, in particular because this was chosen on the burden side. Can the Minister explain why the expenditure frameworks have not been chosen for this purpose? How can Parliament still monitor the long line of expenditure and revenue without occasional expenditure clouding that picture? Mr. Chairman. The reason I am asking is because of the expenditure on care. To our surprise, the framework for 2020 shows an endorsement. That feels weird when we know that all kinds of extra expenses have been incurred in connection with corona. Now we also know that all kinds of operations have not taken place elsewhere in healthcare. We also know that a number of people were reluctant, even though they had the possibility of being admitted to a nursing home, for example. But next year, in 2021, the healthcare framework will also be adjusted downwards. So the expectation is that we're going to spend less money on care in 2021 than we thought last year. This is something difficult to understand. It is a good thing that, despite additional spending, we spend less money on healthcare in 2020. We understand that, because in other places there was also less spending. But wouldn't you expect there to be additional expenses next year to make up for this delayed care? Those who study the annex will come to an answer, but a Millions note should not only be for deep-seated specialists who find fun in digging out attachments. Is the Minister prepared to present more policy-wise developments in expenditure in the context of care in the Autumn paper? And can we make a distinction between cure and care? Mr. Chairman. Take your time; it is better than it is too late. The cabinet wants to make society resilient. We'd better start today than tomorrow. The fact that the government was financially well-off is mainly due to iron discipline in the sense that windfalls were always a gift for the government and never for the taxpayer. But isn't there perhaps the downside to the fact that the burden on households is rising rather easily? Why is it fair for collective windfalls to benefit only the public authorities and not households? Isn't this sneaking the possibility of building buffers by households being undermined? That is why last year the CDA called for the re-launch of the Zijlstra standard, dividing the surplus between increases in expenditure and reductions in charges. We want some structural windfalls to fall on taxpayers too, in particular in order to cope with the sneaky way in which these burdens are constantly increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u64	We're six months away from the election. We have huge expenses. We have a government budget that... You're now windfall formulas and I don't know what's going on. I'm a little surprised to see that. But I actually wanted to ask you about the housing budget. Mr Slootweg of the CDA said that this healthcare budget is quite a puzzle; it really should not be, it should be clearer. The housing budget is about the same. An additional 200 million is being presented, but 62 million has to be raked back, because it was too much spent, and 38 million of the rent payment is being skimmed. All in all, there is not so much left of a housing investment by the cabinet. You can see that, because the investments in housing are falling, as can be seen from the studies of the CPB. Is that also a concern of the CDA Group? I hear Mr Heerma all the time about housing. We have also tabled a motion together which states that there must be another minister for this. Does the CDA also say that something more needs to be done about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u65	Yes, I think Mr Nijboer has heard our group chairman correctly. This indeed requires a number of things, for example a Minister for Housing when it comes to perseverance. We believe that land-use planning notes should be drawn up again in order to give a little more direction, especially in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u66	That is a good thing, because I tabled that motion together with Mr Ronnes. That's what the CDA still thinks. But I also asked about the budget. Of course, we all have crisis packages for different sectors. I will say something about this in my contribution. If you look closely at the budget, if you really go through it for a while, also at the distinction between structuralally and occasionally, you can see that there is relatively little to housing, while housing is immense. The rents have increased enormously in six years. Doesn't the CDA think that there is a greater financial contribution to this? After all, affordable living simply costs money. Are there any business to be done about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u67	Whether you can do business always depends on the proposal. I think it's a little too easy to pretend this cabinet hasn't done anything. It is true that investment has been made. Otherwise, much less investment would have been involved. I only agree with Mr Nijboer that you must present that clearly and clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u69	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u70	Oh, no, there's been an interruption by Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u71	Mr Slootweg's CDA always presents itself as a family party. Now the Nibud brought out that 2.6 million families will have payment problems next year. One in three families suffers from problematic debts. How do you explain to those 2.6 million families that we're spending up to 4 billion dollars on an investment-like thing like BIK, which we don't know what it looks like, that we're doing something for solvency for 300 million and that there's 100 billion going to Italy? We are talking about one in three families who have sleepless nights because they have payment problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u72	I am pleased that a number of measures have been taken which are already reducing the burden on these families. For these families, too, I think it is very important that there are also jobs in the future to make money. I am therefore pleased that the question of how to detach these investments in business is being looked at. And I am glad that it is another en-en package, which looks at people's burdens, but also at how we can ensure that their jobs will be preserved in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u73	With this piece of burden relief, which is ahead of us and which we still have to see what happens to the municipal burden, with that small plus of 0.8%, we still have 2.6 million families in payment problems. That means sleepless nights. That means you can't give your kids what you'd like to give them. Those people, these families, they've been counting on the CDA all along, but the CDA just leaves them in the cold. That says: I'd rather give 4 billion to a BIK, to an investment in business that nobody knows what it is, I'd rather give 300 million to a solvency fund, and I'd rather give 100 billion to Italy, Spain and those other countries. You do, and those families are just dropping you like crazy. So let me ask you again: what would you like to do extra for these families? Besides what's in the budget now, because that's nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u74	Well, is it extra? I still do not see the contradiction Mr Van Dijck is trying to create with regard to the measures we need to take to ensure that as many people as possible have a job. That seems to me to be better than just being supported by the government. I think this is certainly not better in the long term. But I do have some ideas about the family paragraph, as we call it. If that's okay with me, I'll take care of it. Maybe you'll be thrilled, and you'll be on the couch in a minute, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u75	Well, we're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u76	I do notice a little scepticism among the President and doubt whether she will show the same behaviour. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u77	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u78	That is why last year the CDA called for a re-launch of the Zijlstranorm, which divides the surplus between the increase in expenditure and the reduction in charges. We want some structural windfalls to fall on taxpayers too, in particular in order to cope with the sneaky way in which these burdens are constantly increasing. This year the collective burden is falling sharply and next year it will increase due to a one-off accounting set-off, and then reach this year's level in 2022. However, if you see the long series, you will see an increase again from 2023. What is the reason why, from 2023 onwards, collective burdens will rise again if policies remain unchanged? Is there anything to say about which groups are dealing with this burden increase? How does the Minister intend to give a clear place to the Council of State's recommendation to set standards for burden-limiting in future budgetary policy, hands and feet? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the family paragraph. The income position of families remains a challenge for the CDA. We welcome the extra resources that have been made available through the child-related budget. This is a more than welcome contribution. I have already argued in favour of comparing measures taken by other countries. In doing so, I have taken Germany as an example, which temporarily reduced VAT, but also where the children's bonus was part of the package to give households more financial scope. The renowned German economic agency I am only translating it as "Institute for Macro-Economics and Economics" has made an analysis. A first striking outcome was that in this corona time households with children incur additional costs compared to households without children. The effect of the children's bonus was measured. This showed that the measure was more effective than the temporary VAT reduction, because it was going to be spent more. Is the Minister prepared to check whether Corona also increased costs for households with children in the Netherlands compared to households without children? Clear was also the overview of private debts. We realize that this debt position faces a lot of wealth from households and companies. Think of the possession of residential properties and pension assets. Yet these are assets that are not easy to convert into money. As a result, in a situation of crisis, Dutch people actually have few buffers. Many Dutch people are also going to save and redeem, reducing the liquid buffers again. We can see that the cabinet is already taking a number of steps, for example, look at the reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction, which makes it less attractive to enter into large debts. We also see that the adoption of some measures by the Ter Haar Commission reduces the tax incentives for debt-taking. We also see the high level of debt in companies. There we see that measures to reduce interest relief reduce tax incentives for companies to incur debts. There will also be research into how the tax treatment of debt and equity can be better balanced. Yet we see more possibilities. How does the cabinet view the idea of making building savings attractive? The negative interest rate of course does not help to build buffers. How could this be dealt with? How does the Minister view a re-introducing the Youth Savings Act? Mr. Chairman. I look at the clock and see that time flies. In conclusion. While we hope that measures and the taking of personal responsibility will minimise the economic consequences of corona, the budget should also look forward. In addition, we expect the cabinet and entrepreneurs to take additional steps together to increase mutual trust between politics, society and business. In doing so, the resilience of households will need to be looked at how we build in mechanisms to reduce burden and how we make it more attractive for households to build buffers. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to end with another statement by Augustine: the times, that is us. This means that we must take responsibility at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u79	Thank you. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u80	A good end: we certainly have to take responsibility in these times. So does the CDA, and it always has. That's the compliment I'd like to give you. I also liked the fact that Mr Slootweg indicated that he was more or less instructing the Minister to look at the extra costs for families with children at this time. I'd say that's step one. I'm assuming it is. If so, will the CDA also come up with step two to actually do something about it and, if so, what then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u81	I find it remarkable that this is happening in Germany. Because each country has its own structure, I do not know why. So I think it is far too early, but if there is an outcome, we want to keep it in mind, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u82	Of all those families with kids saying we're investigating this and we're keeping this in mind... My question is very specific: will the CDA also take action if it becomes clear that these costs are indeed higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u83	I believe that this cabinet has already taken a number of measures for families. That is why I think the analysis is really very important. I find it remarkable that this is happening in Germany. It's a renowned institution, but I really want more data before I say do it or do it. I think we should make a good analysis of that, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u84	Finally. I actually sense "research and so on" right now, but no action. My very specific question is: if these studies show that this is the case, will there be butter in the fish? In other words, does compensation have to be paid to these families?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u85	Look, to ask as-then you can only answer when "if" is there. So I really think it is important that we just map the situation carefully first. In that sense, as CDA, I think we always want to see what we can do there. Fortunately, we always see that several parties are in favour of seeing how we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u86	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona virus makes everything in our lives insecure. The second wave is unfortunately here. The government seems surprised, the government seems unprepared and the government also seems a little panicked. The chaotic way in which the government in our country deals with this virus makes everything even more insecure than it would otherwise have been. It therefore feels surreal to look at public finances today, when things seem to be getting more uncertain and many of the figures we are discussing today seem obsolete again. The government's first, second and third top priorities, above everything else we are talking about today, should therefore be to get control of the virus now. But if the world changes so quickly and if it looks so different now than it did a year ago, then it is not surprising that there is a very different view of public finances and that there is a very different view of public finances. The Minister of Finance would go from a surplus of 1.7% last year to a historical deficit of 7.2% this year and 5.5% next year even before we entered this second wave. But it is more likely that these deficits will increase. Budget deficits are likely to continue to be part of public finances over the years. That is understandable as far as the Socialist Party is concerned. It would also be unwise and unfair to concentrate now on public debt, which is already very low, as opposed to the debt that many people have and the uncertainty that they find themselves in. They were already dealing with high student debt. They were already dealing with mortgage debts and other debts. On top of that are the concerns about their health, loneliness and uncertainty. That is what keeps many people awake at night and not public finances. There's no reason for that either. At the beginning of this month, the economist magazine ESB conducted research among 364 Dutch economists and asked them when the government debt would be a problem. Of them 92% indicated that public debt would become unsustainable only if it increased by half or even doubled or increased even more. 92%! Only 8% thought it was already between 60% and 90% problematic. Almost all economists therefore agree that a larger public debt is now not a problem. And that moving insight is fortunately also seen in many political parties. It was the first Rutte cabinet, with CDA Minister Jan Kees de Jager, which laid the foundations for billions of cuts, with the support of the PVV Group. It was the second Rutte cabinet, with PvdA Minister of Finance Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who continued to cut on the basis of the Kunduz agreement, which was supported by CDA, D66, GroenLinks and ChristenUnion. And the third and, as far as I am concerned, last Rutte cabinet, with once again a CDA Minister of Finance at the helm, now proves that the cuts under Rutte I and II were simply bad for our country, and fortunately chooses a different course. The Socialist Party wanted more investment in our country all along. And where we were first scorned by almost all the parties in this Chamber, our analysis is now the new foundation of all government policy. Of course we are happy with that, but with only a new foundation you don't have a good house yet. Decisions to invest instead of making cuts have been an important step, but then you have to invest in the right things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u88	Mr Alkaya rightly quotes a number of economists here, but what is the limit for him? What percentage is the correct answer according to Mr Alkaya?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u89	The exact limit cannot be determined, but it is likely that it is somewhere between 90% and 120% if you look at the Dutch economy. So we can still go a whole lot upstairs. I also remember last year's General Financial Reviews, when I said that government debt is now far too low; we already have a buffer and we can move towards 80% or 90% in times of crisis. Then it was precisely Mr Sneller who said: 80% or 90% is bizarre and we should not want that; 60% is the upper limit. For us, 60% is pretty much the lower limit. You can easily and without any problems sit between 60% and 90%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u90	Mr Alkaya is not quoting me quite correctly, but he is forgiven for that. But about the 90% to 120%. Is that just in a stable situation, if it goes well? Or is that the maximum if it's a crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u91	So it has to do with the state of the economy. It's bound to the economy, so that's different from country to country, and it's bound to time. I say that now looking at the Dutch economy, looking at the Dutch situation and looking at the situation we are in. That could be different in 10 years. Of course, that wasn't chiseled in stone. But Mr Sneller will agree with me that it is bizarre that we should draw one line in all these different economies in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u92	If I understand correctly, this would not have been the right answer last year, but it is the right answer at the bottom of the crisis, now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u93	Between last year and this year, of course, a lot has changed. It will be easier for us to agree on that. But even in the difficult situation in which we are now, the Dutch economy could have that. Mr Sneller agrees with me, doesn't he? If all those economists now say that you can easily reach 90% to 120% of your GDP, that was, of course, the case in times of prosperity. It could've been easier. Even at this time, our economy can have a higher public debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u94	No, just when you're making it lower in good times, you can use it when it's going to be bad to fight a crisis and let it get worse. That's why I asked my question. I am not looking for nails on low tide and I am not trying to catch Mr Alkaya either. I'm just trying to understand what he's saying. He says: in good times you have to have it at 90% or 60% so that it can rise afterwards, and then you have to let it rise? Or does he say: in good times you have to make sure that it is between 90% and 120% and in bad times we see it; then it may be above 120%? That's just my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u95	I would have misunderstood the question, but I think I have just answered it. I see 60% as the lower limit. So if it goes well, you can sit around 60% and if it goes badly, you still have a buffer towards 90% and 120%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u97	That is why I also said last year that the 45% we were going to end up with was far too low, unnecessarily low.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u99	Mr. Chairman. Decisions to invest instead of cutting back have thus been an important step of this cabinet, but then you have to invest in the right things. You have to make sensible choices and this cabinet makes the wrong choices for our country in many respects. The SP wants to make our country fairer and stronger out of this crisis. People are entitled to an honest income, but they haven't been getting it for years, despite all the calls and despite all the promises. For years people are looking for an affordable home, just a good house with a reasonable rent, but affordable living has become an illusion in the Netherlands. People give our caregivers a fair reward, because the coronavirus has shown that you first need to be healthy in order to flourish, as an individual but also together, as a country. That would have been our top priorities. Then, of course, you have to distribute the bill fairly. The social account must then be distributed fairly. That would have been our pillars of the new foundation of investment policy, but the cabinet still has only one pillar, which it still believes in. Those are multinationals and big companies. I understand they're having a hard time with that. I understand they're not happy about that, but it's just obvious that that's the case. Everyone can see that now. That is where billions go now, with or without justification, useful or useless. The risk is that, while a neoliberal way of governance is being taken away, our country is moving towards some kind of state capitalism, a system in which the lusts in the economy still end up with a small elite of shareholders and top managers and the burden on the taxpayer at a time when things are going badly. We reject this system as a Socialist Party. State capitalism is not progress for the Netherlands. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether this is his intention: a state capitalist Netherlands in which large companies can convert billions, but cannot go bankrupt at the time when things are going badly, because the State intervenes with taxpayers' money, often without asking for anything in return. Then the bill will also be deposited with ordinary people, because it will simply end up in the public debt. To avoid this, the bill for rescue operations from KLM or IHC, for example, should not be sent to ordinary citizens but to the business community itself. That's not because we hate business or anything like that, that's just fair. You have to split the bill fairly. Would it therefore be only right, after such massive rescue operations, to ask for an extra contribution from those companies that are going to make a profit again afterwards? Corporate tax on high profits was 48% in the 1980s. 48%! This cabinet wanted to lower it to 21.7%. That's what we were just talking about with the VVD. From 48% to 21.7%: that would have been downright antisocial and unfair. Fortunately, they saw that in time and saw that it was not explainable, but the current 25% is thus historically low. Capital is taxed far too low in the Netherlands. Does the Minister share the view that it would be economically sensible to increase the tax on profits and to reduce the tax on labour? If necessary, we will do so neutrally for business, by looking in business at how we can tax labour less heavily and tax capital more heavily. That is just sensible, from the point of view of what has just been the subject of a number of interrupting debates, namely that you want to stimulate jobs. In the so-called Job-related Investment Discount you could see with a lot of good intentions a very bad attempt to do exactly this. Only no one knows exactly what the cabinet intends to do with that BIK. Economists are already saying it won't work. Structurally 2 billion a year tax discount for companies: that is what the cabinet demands from us, without any justification. But we do not know whether it will create additional jobs and, if so, how many. If the goal is then jobs, we do not know if this is the most effective measure. That is why I ask the cabinet whether we cannot use the 2 billion more effectively to create jobs. What other measures have been examined? Doesn't this cumbersome way of promoting jobs cause huge implementation problems at the National Entrepreneurship Office in the Netherlands or at the Tax Office? That is what the implementing services say. Does the Minister recognize this? What does the Minister think about Parliament getting information so late about this 2 billion tax reduction for business? We just got a letter about this an hour ago. There too, there is still a great deal of uncertainty. If we ask for the underlying documents, we are told by the cabinet that we must wait for them because a WOB procedure has also been set up. That is, of course, the whole world on its head, because we Members of Parliament must finally approve this. It seems more and more that we cannot do that, because the documents are missing, but it is of course quite strange that we cannot get an explanation, because we are waiting for a WOB procedure. Mr. Chairman. It is becoming more and more like the goal is not job creation and a tax discount is the means, but the other way around, that the reduction to business is the real goal and that job creation is just the packaging. This is simply the third attempt since the debacle with the dividend tax. The old austerity drive seems to have turned liberal Netherlands into an urge to put billions of public money into private companies, often without proper justification. Thus, VNO-NCW has also set up a fund, which has already been referred to a number of times, to invest in companies in difficulty. They're asking for 300 million from the cabinet. And yes, the 300 million will already be released, while the cabinet has no idea if it will solve a problem. So in the meantime, has the cabinet been able to think about a marketing talk and a foundation for this fund, and would it share this with us? When it comes to businesses, money is reserved first, and then everything is taken out of the closet to speak right which is crooked. What I find so striking is the difference in the attitude of the cabinet towards the rest of society, towards the care, for example, or the victims in the supplementing affair at the Tax Office. Then research is done after investigation, we have to table motion after motion in vain, committee after committee is set up, causing people to lose confidence in their own government. Because if VNO-NCW or KLM knocks, or if you're a mink breeder, then the money is so arranged. What is the government going to do about the idea that the government has become too much against citizens and is far too much an accomplice of large companies? Is the Cabinet prepared to take a step to remove that image, for example by compensating as many of the victims of the supplement affair as possible before the coming holidays or, if not, at least sending an advance for compensation? Mr. Chairman. Even after the letter about the BIK, so about ten minutes before this debate began, we received the progress regarding the supplementing affair. The first assumption was that there were 5,000 duped parents, who are therefore in financial trouble and misery. Of these, only 300 to 600 will be compensated this year, while it was promised that there would be 5,000. How does the cabinet feel about that? Is there at least a willingness to do everything possible to give as many parents as possible an advance on the money they are just entitled to before the holidays? Mr. Chairman. A foundation of investment rather than austerity offers opportunities to do many good things for society, but whatever we decide, people expect us to take responsibility for the things we spend their money on and explain that we support our choices as elected politicians. The Council of State says that fiscal policy is important not only for us, but also for citizens. It forces us to confess to our constituents in public color. That is precisely why it is unacceptable how the cabinet wants to organise this responsibility away in the so-called growth fund. Mr. Chairman. I don't need to tell the two creators of this fund, the two McKinsey consultants Wiebes and Hoekstra, that democracy doesn't work that way, does it? It is not just about the substantive and economic balance between public investment, but also about the balance of interests between society. Those who weigh such social interests are we, elected representatives of the people, not some elite so-called good-looking committee. The money of the Rotary or the golf club is not a problem, but not the money of all Dutch people. The Council of State and the General Court are therefore extremely critical of this fund. It undermines Parliament's control function, says the Council of State. The General Court says that the cabinet wants to guide the fund through Parliament in an improper and artificial way. Very heavy words. What is the Minister's reaction to this harsh criticism and how does he intend to guarantee a majority for this fund if the criticism is so great and society asks for it to be invested? Mr. Chairman. The debts that the minister is now in charge of are all of us and must ultimately be repaid. Not in the years to come, but in the decades to come. At the same time, when it comes to the SP, we must not cut back on the public sector. Meanwhile, there are also societal challenges to combat inequality and combat global warming. We therefore need additional income for this. We can get them from the big companies, from the shareholders and from the highest assets. Last year, a motion by myself and Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 was adopted, in my view, when dealing with the Tax Plan, to examine the possibilities for a millionaire tax, a small additional tax on private assets over 1 million. I was happy to read that it is also in D66's new election programme. It's with us, too. Meanwhile, there is a new Secretary of State on Fiscal Affairs, a planned reform of the capital return tax is off the table because small investors are small investors! We haven't heard anything about our motion. Where can we expect the results of the promised research into millionaire tax? Or did the new Secretary of State put this motion aside in the hope that we would forget it? I should hope not, since it is also included in the D66 election programme. Mr. Chairman. Every crisis exposes vulnerabilities in our society and gives the incumbent power the opportunity to tackle them. For example, after the banking crisis, the government chose to charge the housing corporations extra with a landlord's tax. Now the disastrous effects of this are becoming apparent, on the availability of housing, on the quality of housing and on rental prices, and the tide seems to be finally turning. For far too long people have paid too much rent for far too bad homes. And while everyone seems to agree on the undesirableness of this monstrosity from the past, the cabinet still allows this measure to exist for a very large part, resulting in a year with too little housing, too high rents and unnecessarily bad homes. So my question to the cabinet is: what are they waiting for? I've already mentioned several ways to pay for this, just in my first input. There is enough money in the Netherlands, but unfortunately it is in the wrong place. This leads me once again to the conclusion that although there is a new foundation of investment under public policy, our money is being spent wrongly and the account is not being distributed fairly. If this continues, after neoliberalism, state capitalism, with high private profits in times of prosperity, high public spending on companies in times of crisis and then huge burdens on ordinary people, will threaten the Netherlands. If it goes on like this, then the little elite gets even more lust and we get more burdens. But at least it doesn't have to go on like this. Fortunately, after the elections, a social and fair cabinet can also put something stable and something wonderful for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u100	Thank you. Mr Slootweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u101	I would have expected you to highlight the counter-budget a little more firmly. Are you still in favour of that CO levy that's in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u102	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u103	But what I don't quite understand is this. Last year you also launched a plan, I believe. In it, that money comes back to the people and not this time. So now it has just become a tax at the expense of the wallet. Has anything changed in there? Don't people need that anymore? Isn't the acceptance of ordinary people important for that tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u104	No. On the contrary, we think it is very important that there is support for environmental measures by ordinary people, especially in the case of the CO levy. In the counter-budget, you can also find a lot of different measures that benefit society, contrary to what the cabinet has presented. Take, for example, public sector investment and wages. We have just shown that if you raise 9 billion extra somewhere, you can spend that 9 billion more usefully in relation to what the cabinet is planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u105	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During World War I, it was the state-of-the-art military strategy: all bets on winning the decisive battle by immediately encircling the enemy with all armies at the same time. General von Clausewitz had learned that from his study of the Battle of Cannae in 216 BC. In the 1930s, the French generals had developed a magnificent and ingenious trenches system that would certainly stop the German threat at the Maginot Line. But when it came down to it, the Luftwaffe flew right over it. As generals often try to win the previous war, so politicians are often tempted to solve the previous crisis. Partly, of course, it is very sensible to learn from the past and to put these lessons into practice. For example, we learned from the previous crisis that we should not wait for reform until that crisis breaks out and that blunt cuts in times of economic need can cause more damage than we like, while there is more scope and opportunities for anti-cyclical policies than some thought. But we must win not only the previous battle, but also the next battle. For this, it is necessary to look beyond the current crisis: what shortcomings did our economy already have before that and what weaknesses will come back hard after this crisis? If I do that, I can see that capitalism has brought us a great deal, but it is also in need of serious reform. We need to build an economy that lets people out, but doesn't let anyone down; we need to build progressive capitalism. That is a wish that sounds ever wider, but also an audition that does not go by itself and is still going to ask for a lot of courage, policy and loyalty. I would like to comment on a number of pillars under that progressive capitalism. The use of prices that reflect actual costs and not just artificially low prices because costs are passed on to society, to nature or to subsequent generations. A government that values the public sector and thus invests in public services needed for a prosperous society, but also actively invests in an exciting economy through research and infrastructure. Control of market power, a liberal task par excellence. And companies that not only focus on the short term and the value for their shareholders, but also show that other values are important. Mr. Chairman. The first pillar: fair prices. When I was in the Microeconomics 101 class at university, the first few hundred pages of the textbook covered all the ins and outs of a very elegant, modelly reality. At the end, there was one chapter on market failure. But by now we know that market failure is the norm rather than the exception and should be on page 1 and should come back in all chapters afterwards. To reassure you: I understand that this has been arranged at many universities and is better in the curriculum. But the question is whether it is better in our policy as well. Because many negative externalities, as they are called in the economy, are still not sufficiently included in prices and taken into account. Pollution and CO emissions are still too cheap. Fortunately, we are taking important steps: we are the first country with a climate agreement, we are introducing a flight tax and there will also be a CO tax. But next steps are needed. For example, the cabinet letter showing that more than 4.5 billion goes to fossil subsidies was another wake-up call. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet how we handle this. Can we give these subsidies a clearer place in the Millions Note? Why does the cabinet still not know the budgetary impact of some tax subsidies, such as the refinery exemption? Mr. Chairman. The elegant economic models I mentioned, of course, are all based on the beautiful assumption of perfect competition. This brings me to the second pillar: tackling market power. Because in many markets there is very imperfect competition. The trend seems to be moving towards more than less concentration. Big Tech might be the best example of that. There may seem a lot of competition, but if your application isn't on the Apple Store, you can almost forget about it as a developer, and if you don't get into the top five Google search terms, no visitor will be on your website. They are large companies with great impact on our daily lives, our democracy and our freedom. And so we need to update those competition rules so that these companies have less power over our data and our lives and people and supervisors themselves have more opportunities. In Europe we are working on this, but what is the situation with regard to the adaptation of the legislation following the own-initiative paper by my colleague Mr Verhoeven? Wider than Big Tech, there is undesirable concentration and further consolidation in markets. We talked about it yesterday with the Minister in the debate on the accountancy sector, but I see the same trend, for example, in the Dutch daily press and wider. Last week, the CPB showed that there is more and more evidence that employers have market power in the labour market and can therefore lower wages than would otherwise be the case. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third pillar: the value that the public sector adds to our economy and its revaluation. It is a good thing that, after a decades of falling trend in public investment as a percentage of our national income, there is a broad recognition that this percentage should be raised. The National Growth Fund is a first concrete step in this direction. But an important criterion is, of course, what is invested in? The Prime Minister mentioned it a few times in the General Political Reviews: one of them is that the social costs and benefits, including viability, are positive. Last year, I tabled a motion to the General Financial Reviews, which was also adopted, to review the guidance that exists for SMBs, which are called social cost-benefit analyses, and to better reflect the importance of broad prosperity. The drafting of the motion would come to the Chamber last summer, but the Growth Fund will, of course, make it even more urgent. So my question to the Minister is: when will the Chamber get this effect? Mr. Chairman. I fully share the view of those who say that we are not there yet with these investments. Research carried out by Erasmus University shows that income mobility has deteriorated during the previous crisis. Let us at least learn this lesson from the crisis. Let us invest ourselves out of the crisis, but let us make sure that we improve equality of opportunity by investing in a rich school day for every child, with the best education of a teacher who is valued, who has time and can fill in that education, with sports, homework guidance and a healthy lunch. We already see from the first results that it works. In schools in Limburg they have already started with more exercise and a healthy lunch. Children grow up healthier and even influence their parents with healthy behavior, especially in neighbourhoods where children grow up with fewer opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u107	Those are worthy words from D66. I don't think that's so crazy either. Education is close to the heart of D66. If you're really looking at what's going on in education, with teachers' shortages, the reading skills that are deteriorating, the workload that is huge, and if you're looking at such a big Wopke-Wiebes fund, wouldn't D66 really have preferred to have more structural investment in education, that something really was done about that opportunity inequality, instead of presenting such a large and compelling fund, where we finally have to see where it comes from?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u108	I was very pleased with the announcement in the Spring Paper that extra money was being allocated to tackle, for example, the teacher shortage in the big cities, where it was really poignant. I think that the growth letter, which Mrs De Vries referred to, says that there are also things that can come out of that fund that can help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u109	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u110	Yes, I know, Mr. Chairman. I didn't agree. You also understand why. Anyway, I always join your lead. You know that. Look at the problems in education. The pay gap between primary and secondary education remains. There are problems with the workload, including at universities. There's a shortage of internships on MBOs. Then the package that the cabinet comes up with is not a serious answer to the needs of education, is it? Surely Mr Sneller agrees with me? It can't hide behind such a Wopke-Wiebes fund, where perhaps a little money comes from for part of the education, money that is also incidental?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u111	Fortunately, in this cabinet period, an additional 1.9 billion has already gone into education and teachers' salaries in primary education have increased by almost 10%. So I think we've taken some serious steps there. If it is up to me, we will continue these steps and continue on that road that I will not make Mr Nijboer too catty after the previous cabinet has been deployed. Now I've done it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u113	Mr. Chairman. In the Millions note it is all a bit more prosaic: "In an developed economy like in the Netherlands, human capital is the main driver of future prosperity." Extra money for education is therefore urgently needed. But then it will help if the models of our CPB calculators, whose independent role as referee of the economic debate I very much appreciate, would also recognise that investment in education and research leads to prosperity gains and economic growth. I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at that discussion, because that recognition could also help to shift public expenditure from consumption to investment. And deeper, as Mr Snels pointed out, we need to improve the quality of public expenditure, as the Council of State also states in his opinion on the Millions Note. An important anchor for this is Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. As far as I am concerned, it would be very welcome for the Council of State itself to take this issue more explicitly in legislative advice before it comes to the Chamber. I come to the fourth pillar, which I mentioned earlier: the companies that are also thinking about the long term and a broader group of stakeholders than just their shareholders. They also play a central role in investment, but also in employment and climate. Many companies are already doing this, of course. We have a corporate governance code in the Netherlands, which requires management of listed companies to respect a wide range of economic, but also social, interests in a balanced way. Only in practice we see that this does not always happen. The short-term interests of shareholders still prevail too often. Unlisted companies are not even covered by this code. In short, good and responsible behaviour of companies is still not enough practice. This analysis isn't just mine. The European Commission is also showing this in recent research. In the Netherlands, for example, companies are very focused on this short term, when looking at the distribution of dividends as a percentage of turnover. For example, the Netherlands will be in the top three of Europe. In almost all of Europe, this is falling, but in the Netherlands it is rising. The other day I read in Het Financieele Dagblad that directors and Commissioners would only have this discussion within the boardrooms. That is not entirely my experience, but at least this conversation belongs in the public and in politics much more often. There are several ways to achieve the same goal. Mr Slootweg mentioned the anchoring of a corporate purpose, but one could also think of better and stricter compliance with the balanced balance of interests I mentioned. That is why I think it is important that we take steps in this regard. In politics, it is a kind of Bermuda square between Social Affairs, Justice and Security, Economic Affairs and Finance, so Mr Slootweg and I thought: let us bring this up in the General Financial Reviews. That is why, for my part, the question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to investigate how we can stimulate this responsible form of governance, with a view to all stakeholders and with a longer-term focus, and whether it requires better legal anchoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u114	I share this interest wholeheartedly. I have a slightly different analysis of how you should do that. If you look at the material conditions within the companies and the balance of power, I think it is almost impossible, because they are now so focused that short-term interests prevail. Shouldn't we be looking at that balance of power, too? Should we give the employees, who really have an interest in the continuity of the company, more control over this kind of business?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u115	In fact, the last time I was allowed to have a debate on corporate governance, we did so, and we enshrined it in the law, by strengthening the advisory right of the works council. Among other things, an amendment by Mr Snels has given shareholders more control over the proposals for remuneration. This has led to quite a lot of proposals for remuneration being rejected in the last pay season. I think that Mr Alkaya also finds an ally in the shareholders more often than he might think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u116	I know these movements, but I would like to go a step further, including the right of assent when it comes to strategic decisions. During the General Political Reviews, we launched three legislative proposals for initiatives. One is really about changing those power relations within companies, precisely to ensure that decisions taken by the administration are more long-term. How do you feel about that? By ensuring that employees actually have to agree on important decisions, namely the division of a business line, offshoring or all kinds of other strategic decisions that affect employees. It is a question of giving the employees a stronger voice and preferably a right of consent. Then go to the canton court if you don't get out. But the employees must also support it. Can we ask the cabinet together to include this in the research that the CDA and D66 are now asking for, and also to see if employees should not be given more right of consent in relation to strategic decision-making within companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u117	Let us have this discussion in particular when we discuss the bill announced by the SP. To be honest, I haven't read that yet, but I look forward to it with interest. It is just one of the dimensions I mentioned. It is also about climate and broader considerations about ecology and so on. But I look forward to it with interest. I think the Minister has heard your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u118	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u119	Mr. Chairman. Companies in a progressive capitalist system of course also simply pay their fair share of taxes. That is up to companies themselves, but that is also up to governments. That is why I am pleased that tax avoidance is being addressed again, because tax avoidance leads to unfair competition and an uneven playing field. D66 also looks forward with interest to the proposals on loss relief, which Mr Snels mentioned earlier. We must not sit back and wait, but we must also continue to explore how we can tackle these streamers and thus stimulate investment. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State if he has any more details on the committee that has been announced to investigate this. Mr. Chairman. In order to face the next crisis more resiliently or, as some would say, more anti-fragitively, we will also have to address weaknesses in our economy. This requires further reforms not only elsewhere in Europe, but also in the Netherlands, and the European Recovery Fund provides a strong incentive for this. My question to the Minister is what the cabinet is going to do with this. What's going to be in that cabinet recovery plan? Are the reforms in the Millions Note sufficient to claim this? Do we also address these country-specific recommendations for the Netherlands sufficiently? So what will be our request, Minister? Mr President, I will conclude. In this crisis, the deep grooves in society have become clear. Let us face these grooves so that we do not go back into the same pitfalls and stick to the same system where the cost of the climate crisis is passed on to future generations, market power continues to exist and the role of the public sector is undervalued. In short, let us reform capitalism in order to preserve it for an economy in which everyone is free and we don't let anyone fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u120	I only have one question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u121	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u122	Mr Sneller referred to fairer tax payments. I think we share that. It is also good that there are proposals from the Ter Haar committee in the Tax Plan. But now, in Question Time, I looked at it with a slanted eye, because I was preparing this debate that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy had to say: I can't say anything about Tata Steel's tax return, because it's classified; Article 67 General law on state taxes. Now the Ter Haar committee has said: we should actually change that; we should actually oblige large companies to give access, even in the public debate, to how much tax they actually pay. Does Mr Sneller agree with me that we should actually ask the cabinet to take steps to increase transparency here too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u123	I think I've overlooked that part of Mr. Snels's Open Government Act. I have not seen Question Time, so I cannot entirely judge this. In general, I think country-by-country reporting for multinationals is a very important movement. I found this very unsatisfactory, for example, in the debate on digital taxation and what is and is not paid there. But let me promise Mr Snels that I will return to that in the second term. Then I can take a look at Question Time, because I was also working on something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u124	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer. I'm watching. Mr. Bruins is after that. After Mr Bruins, I'm going to suspend for dinner break. Are you guys hanging in there? Not really? No. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually want to start with a call from the first Nobel Prize winner for Economics, the Dutchman Jan Tinbergen. He called economists, whatever I am, to look out the window. I think it is certainly useful in these times to look out the window, to look at society, at the economy, at what is happening there, to analyse it, and then to take policy lessons from it. If I looked out the window right now, I'd see three things. First of all, of course, a huge health crisis. And health policy is economic policy at the moment. This is also reflected in yesterday's decisions, which have a huge impact on entrepreneurs: on catering entrepreneurs, but also on people who work in culture, who have a business in them, not to mention museums, theatres and sports clubs. They may not be entrepreneurs, but they are part of our society, part of our social life. You can't stand there on the field anymore. That has a huge impact. And for the government's decision to act too laxly in August, we are already paying the price. We are always talking about a second wave in which things are going wrong, but it is already going wrong. If we had intervened before, we wouldn't have had these problems. In short, health policy is economic policy. That's the first observation. The second observation is about the inequalities that exist in society. This has been mentioned a lot and the CPB has also given a nice analysis of this, although the subject of the analysis is of course not beautiful at all. These inequalities in society are very exposed. Flex workers pay the bill first. Some measures have been taken for them, but they are still out of a job. It's harder for people who get out of school to get a job. Youth unemployment is rising. Zzp'ers see their entire income go up in smoke. And of course there are stut packages, but it's a tough one. The inequality of opportunity in education is increasing. Children with less educated parents have just fallen behind. And now teachers are sick every day at all schools, so classes have to be joined together. A very good friend of mine is a teacher at an elementary school. After the lockdown on one day, she saw all the children of her class together again, namely on the first day after that lockdown. For the rest of the time, her class has never been complete. There was always someone sick, someone always had to stay home because parents were sick. If this has been going on for so long, for many months, it will have an impact on development. And how you live matters. You're only gonna live in an apartment with three kids without having to work outside, and you're gonna have to work at home all the time and do a little work that way, with a boss who looks a little cranky and says, "Is this what you're delivering?" In short, there is enormous light on the dividing lines that exist in society. Mr. Chairman. The third thing I see when I look out the window is the enormous importance that the government has in the economy, but also in society. The government is not the enemy, but the government is crucial to the proper functioning of our society. You can make political choices about how you use it. Mr. Chairman. Along these three broad lines, I am also looking at the present budget. I shall begin with one of the main concerns of the Labour Party, namely rising unemployment. Because whatever scenario you take, we'll see that jobs are lost. In the disaster scenario there will be hundreds of thousands, but also in the CPB scenario you can see that many, many tens of thousands of people are becoming unemployed. Getting unemployed is a disaster for everyone who happens to be. We've got to put all the sails in place to prevent that. I am therefore asking the cabinet the same question that my group chairman asked last week. Is the Cabinet prepared to look again at the extension of the measures which are now due to expire in January, now that these measures are being reinforced? And is the cabinet also prepared to look at sectors that are being hit hard again? I refer to the cultural sector. Only 30 people are allowed in the Rijksmuseum, 30 people a day. This simply means the death sentence if we do not give more support to this sector. This also applies to sports clubs. Those exist of the beers sold, Rivella's and Coke's; it's as simple as that. That's something that needs to be dealt with. Is the cabinet prepared to provide additional resources for this? Mr President, I come to the second point. The biggest policy priority in the financial sense of this cabinet for the next two years is the BIK. It's unsubstantiated, unfinished. It's a gift looking for the right paper. If any minister or secretary of state would come to this finance minister with this plan, then this minister would immediately say: yes, hello, we cannot come up with this because we must have a basis, we must have law, we must have thought about what we want with it and we must have an objective. But this is from the Treasury Department, so apparently there's no one there to say that. Well, I'll say it from the Chamber, at least on my own behalf. I do not think you can spend 2 billion while the underlying law is not yet in the biggest financial debate of the year. And I think the cabinet itself actually knows that. The BIK is very similar to the WIR, the investment scheme of the past. We know it went wrong with that WIR. It was very sensitive to fraud and a lot of improper use was made of it. And then the budget was totally out of control. Moreover, the WIR did not provide the employment target. I ask the cabinet whether it really thinks it can come up with a kind of arrangement that is also generic and fiscal, but does not have these negative effects? Does the Cabinet really think so? The second question I would like to ask the cabinet is: is this really the most effective measure to achieve job retention, which is perhaps most important for the PvdA at the moment? I would like to put the housing budget against that. Look at the housing, the rents, which have risen most in the last six years, the housing shortage, which is massive, which is shared from left to right here in the Chamber. I explained in an interruption how I look at this housing budget: there is some intensification, but there is also some withdrawal. You can see that the investments in housing are falling. There's just a minus of a few percent. The number of construction workers at risk of becoming unemployed is increasing. If there is one lesson from the previous crisis, it is anti-cyclical investment in construction. Make sure construction workers don't lose their jobs, because then you come home from a cold carnival. We already have a housing shortage. We have to spend a lot more. Then look at the underlying figures. It's been calculated that you can create 60,000 jobs if you halve the landlord's tax. I'm always like, whether it's 60 or 30 or 40. But that is rather more concrete than what the Prime Minister said here in the General Reviews: we never know what a tax measure is doing. The landlord's tax is tax. That contrast is huge to me. You can do something about the housing shortage, you can do something about the housing and you can keep jobs. Why isn't that more explicit? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the other big proposal, which was actually announced last year. There was a lot of criticism at the time, because yes, 50 billion, 100 billion, even without ideas. I saw a bit of a comparison with the BICC in that respect. That has now been worked out, and I am dissatisfied with that, while the PvdA Group is strongly in favour of investment. I'm from an investment fund, too. In fact, I've argued for that before. But I have three problems with this fund. It threatens to become an old recipe for the old economy. That is what the objective is: GDP growth as a holy grail. That really isn't of this time anymore, but the Cabinet hangs everything on that. Isn't there more than just GDP growth? We live in a society in which broad prosperity is leading, don't we? It is not the case that we no longer have to count on pollution at all or that we cannot look at it, or, stronger, at saving measures or become more innovative in healthcare. You can do that with home automation, for example, which helps people online. This leads to lower GDP growth. It's not like you don't want that kind of innovation, is it? So I ask the Cabinet to abandon that criterion. Moreover, the reasoning is not correct in the answers, as the sustainability of public finances deteriorates as GDP grows. That's weird. I can elaborate on that. So it is also a very simplistic argument. I find Mr Van der Linde difficult to look at, but that is because the increase in productivity... Actually, Baumol's law... Uh, people should also... Mr President, I'm getting bogged down in technology. I won't. Mr. Chairman. My second objection is that you also have to have an idea as a policy that you want to spend the money on. If you want to separate 20 billion in taxpayers' money, I think that's a political choice. I am in favour of investing more in education, housing and public transport, but not in airports and perhaps not in roads where I do not like them, which would be great for GDP growth. You can't outsource that. Mr Alkaya also said the necessary thing about this. That's a political choice. I think that's what the Chamber should be about. There's no way of thinking about it. Let me clarify that the PvdA is going to give a free pass of EUR 20 billion without having any idea where it's going, even though I'm in favour of an investment fund. No way! I also consider this to be parliamentaryly irresponsible. Mr. Chairman. The third point concerns the themes that have been identified. That's three, but I miss sustainability, I miss housing and I miss... Well, you might still be able to support education if you still include those knowledge-intensive things, but that's too vague for me. But that's really necessary. A technical question on this matter. I saw that it is not going to be over four years, yes, in the budget, but that expenditure is actually going to be over eight years. So it looked like four times 5 billion, but it's actually only 1 billion next year. Well, we don't know what it is yet, so we'll see if we can do it. And the next year, it's only 2 billion. So basically that fund doesn't put them in the middle of this crisis and it goes on for another eight years. In 2028 these funds were only spent once. I couldn't help noticing that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u126	I think the PvdA itself has a nice plan about infrastructure for the 21st century. It'll be 10 billion. For example, that plan refers to a Lelyline. Is it there next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u127	No, I'm not. I have the ambition to do so for the coming cabinet period. But I agree with you on that. I don't know if you can make the first ride in four years. I don't know if that's gonna work. You have to be honest about that, too. I think you can start construction then. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u128	Why is Mr Nijboer so honest about his own plan and so unfair about the cabinet's plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u129	That's not me at all. I'm just asking if it's true that it's not spread in four years, but in eight years. That was news to me. That's what I read on Sunday. Four times 5 billion was announced until 2025. That turns out to be 1 billion next year and 2 billion in 2022. Then I ask: is that correct; do I understand correctly? As a crisis measure, I do not think that puts so much effort into it. Then I am more in favour of setting the landlord's tax to zero next year, for example. Then you have 1.6 billion and you can build houses right away. Well, I think that's wiser. That seems to me to be a good question for a financial spokesman, but Mr Sneller looks at it a little difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u130	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u131	I still find it so difficult for Mr Nijboer to say that he would have spent the 10 billion as quickly as a crisis measure. The criticism of the rise in the fund presented by the cabinet is that it will take some time, but that is because it may actually happen. It takes some time for such a Lely line to be completely drawn and constructed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u132	Perhaps Mr Sneller knows more than I do and more than the cabinet, but I do not think the cabinet has any idea what it is spending on. So it's already quite an art to predict a rise for that. Of course, for infrastructure, you have to apply for permits, and that takes a long time. Innovation can be done faster. Education can be done directly. I would have liked to have D66 by my side to do more, but well, he has not yet supported that. Mr. Chairman. I come to education. I think that's a contrast, too. I have outlined the contrast between the BIK, the short-term employment and the housing shortage and the construction compartment. I agree with the investment fund. If you really want to invest in the future of this country, if you really want to increase your earning ability, do what's right, reduce the odds, make our population forward-looking, so that you're all productive and have a job that suits you, can't you just invest structurally in education? Everyone, from left to right, agrees on that, right? But I just don't see that happening. Then we can all have discussions about questions like "what is the cause of the table?" and "are they crisis measures?', But the issue is that the numbers of pupils are falling and that in five years' time, the overall expenditure on education is less than in 2020. I find that incomprehensible. There is a very large fund for the future of the economy, but structural expenditure on education is falling. It can't be, can it? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the debt. I was surprised to look at the CDA and the VVD that were already discussing windfall formulas, while, I think, there is not much change in the budgetary rules of this cabinet. That doesn't have much impact on that anymore, while the question of whether the Stability and Growth Pact, as agreed, is still sustainable is a serious question. The Minister's running away from that a little bit. It's been asked. He says, "Now we're gonna take it out, but yeah, someday..." I'm gonna ask for a little more vision on that. The SGP is clear about that. He says, "Put the shit to shit and you'll have to cut back in the end." That's kind of the same as the Council of State says. I don't think so. I'd like to look out the window with Tinbergen and see what happens. That's one thing: anti-cyclical investment. That's what the Cabinet does. But two, we are already in a low-interest environment where you can stimulate economic growth and where a higher level of debt may be justifiable. In the past, that was a problem. Even in the 1990s, we spent 5% of GDP on interest payments. That's 0.5% now, one tenth of it. So the whole problem of interest that suppresses the other spending on government budgets has disappeared like snow before the sun. Is debt no longer relevant? Yeah, of course it's relevant, because it's easier to take punches. We can see that now. But maybe you can look at those interest payments as a burden on them. Maybe you can hold your debt longer, too, to say it in domestic terms, so for example for ten years. It's been seven to eight years. I believe that it is now on average seven years, with a range of six to eight years. Can you pin it down for ten years, when the interest rate rises, have ten years of adjustment time? I think that's an interesting discussion. This also gives room to invest in the social needs that became so visible in the wake of this crisis: the housing shortage, the public service, the appreciation and workload in education and care, the training of our future generations. But we see, and I find that really very worrying, that low literacy is increasing and knowledge and skills are decreasing. That's really disastrous for our economy. So isn't that much more important? Isn't he blind to the guilt of our future blind? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. We do live in a difficult time with a lot of uncertainty. At this time, at least the people I speak to are very unhappy with these new measures. They have to stay home, they are restricted in their freedoms again, they can't even visit their own family properly anymore. At least if you have two kids who each have a partner, as is the case at my parents' house, you can't get together with six of them anymore. That has a huge impact. There are also people insecure about their jobs. At that time, the PvdA felt that the government should stand by, that we should be aware of this and that we should contribute and work towards a future more beautiful, stronger and social country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u133	Mr Slootweg and Mr Tony van Dijck have questions for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u134	Let's do it on seniority. I wouldn't say you would, Mr. Van Dijck!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u135	We do it at an age. Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u136	I read a column by Ronald Plasterk, not the first one in the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u137	I'm his successor!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u138	I have experienced Mr Plasterk as a financial spokesman. At that time, I often had discussions and debates with him about how the euro is such a good currency and how we should, above all, remain in the European Union. And now let's call it "long-term insight," he says in his column: "We've messed up a transfer union. We need to get out of the euro as soon as possible, because this is not sustainable. We cannot give 85 billion to Italy and ask Dutch taxpayers 5 billion to participate in this donation towards Italy." The same applies to Spain, France and all these countries. What does this do with the PvdA's vision of the euro and the future of the euro and the European Union? You're saying that man's gone completely mad since he's not in politics anymore? Or does he have a point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u139	Oh, boy. Well, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u140	Occasionally, on a number of other points, I do not agree with Mr Plasterk. That is also the case at this point. That's pretty serious. I do not believe that we, the Netherlands, are better off if we do not get through it together and Italy goes down, or if France or Germany, where things are going well now, but in the past has also been called 'the sick man of Europe', suffering enormously. That is a fundamental difference with the PVV, which says: put a fence around the Netherlands and everything will be fine. No, we live in an open world where we have to do it together. You're gonna have to help each other out once. It is also in its own interest to do so. I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u141	Your last question, Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u142	Mr. Plasterk is not a dumb man.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u143	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u144	He went to college and a good bunch of brains. He's just come to the understanding that you're setting up a really wrong policy and a really wrong picture. Indeed, you cannot ask the Dutch people to pay 5 billion towards Italy because Italy is over-indebted. Now I see why you're pleading for a higher debt. If we had had a debt of 130%, we would have received the 85 billion. But that's not where it goes and that's where we've checked it out. 'Cause then who's gonna pay us? Italy? I don't think so! So in other words, the system we are currently in is not sustainable. You have just mentioned a whole list of wishes: more money for housing, more money for education. In the meantime, however, you are transferring 5 billion to Italy, so that they can build more there, so that they can do more about education there. You're setting your priorities wrong. You must invest your money here in the Netherlands and not in Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u145	Together with the SP and GroenLinks, we have submitted a neat counter-budget in which we show that it can be done. Everything I have just advocated here, we have covered. This includes European solidarity, which has also been used. Mr Van Dijck says here that none of this can be done. The PVV constantly runs away when it is difficult and serves all uncovered things. But you can't blame me for that. I get almost all the blames as a PvdAer, but the irresponsible handling of public finances is not usually my fault. I think that's right, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u146	You may respond briefly to this, but you are through your interruptions, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u147	I'm being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u148	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u149	However, the fact remains that this summer the EUR 100 billion will be transferred to Brussels and other Member States. That's taxpayers' money from people in the Netherlands. They have to earn that. Then they'll give it to this finance minister and he'll pass it on. He's throwing 100 billion all over Europe. Then you can come up with a plan that is covered, but you are throwing 100 billion through the well and that is called Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u150	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u151	We do not agree on that amount either. It is partly made up of loans and partly of gifts. It's not 100 billion. The Dutch share is 6%. But Mr Van Dijck knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u152	No, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u153	Mr Van Dijck is also an intelligent man, just like some others who have been addressed. But we fundamentally disagree on this. You can do that sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u154	It went quietly so far, until you started interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u155	I do think it's important that the viewers know at home...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u156	Okay, you can fix it, but then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u157	...that the 100 billion is right, because a signature has been signed under 1,800 billion. That is the budget for seven years of the European Union and the recovery fund with grants and loans. If you assume that these loans will never come back, and don't worry, they'll never come back if you lend something to Italy. It's 6% of 1,800 billion. What's that again, 6% of 1,800 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u158	Yeah, and assuming that the Netherlands doesn't get any of that... We are, of course, part of Europe. We also have border control together and we also have sustainable measures together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u159	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u160	No, I'm not. No, no, no, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u161	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u162	Mr Van Dijck disagrees, but they are also paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u163	No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u164	So we don't agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u165	Mr. Nijboer, I'm going to see Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u166	I almost regretted being so generous yesterday. First of all, congratulations, because Mr Nijboer always does this very beautifully by heart. That's always a good reason for me to wait, because then he can splash out his image nicely, especially that image from the window. I have a question about looking out the window and actually about the counter-budget. I have actually put that question to Mr Alkaya. You have already submitted a plan for this CO levy in the past, but it came back to the people. I understand now that Mr Alkaya even wants to raise 9 billion. How are you going to do that? After all, it really costs people's purchasing power if you put a levy there, as presented in the counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u167	We have a tax on companies in the counter-budget. You can see that we've focused all the intensifications on people: higher teacher salaries, higher salaries for people in care; permanent, so not a bonus, but permanent. All that kind of intensification we've done with that. It'll end up with people, won't it? I do not understand Mr Slootweg's whole point at all. We're taxing, all right. That's true. That's a choice. We are in favour of a sustainable economy. So we burden polluting behavior. That has to be paid, too. That is what we spend on these public needs, for example on housing in the form of affordable rental houses. That too is something that affects people's income. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u168	Let me put it this way: I would like to tell Mr Nijboer that of course you will not get those intensifications from Mr Nijboer if you are simply working as a truck driver or if you are working in a grocery store somewhere. That's what you notice when you have to come to the grocery store. If you look out the window, we shouldn't do it with selective sunglasses. Then we really should just say that the costs are there. If you don't work in health care and you're not a teacher, you just pay the top prize at the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u169	I find that a firm position of a party that supports a BIK of 2 billion, with which you can do much more meaningful things, which apparently doesn't want to green the economy right now and which finds 1 billion of burdens for companies too much. I think 1 billion is very controlled. What's a billion dollars of carbon tax for companies? That is what we want to spend on, for example, lower rentals, which would also benefit very large groups of elderly people, I say to the CDA. In short, we really disagree on that. It is good that this has been clarified in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u172	I shall now give the floor to Mr Bruins. I do that because Mr. Bruins is very anxious to tell you something, Mr. Tony van Dijck. Otherwise, I'd say I'm gonna give everyone the floor. Then I'll suspend for dinner break. Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u173	"Confidence in the future"; that's what the coalition agreement we've been on the road with for almost three years now. Only three more years! While our country is flooded by a second wave of corona contaminations, the title sounds like something from a distant past. As Seneca eloquently put it 2,000 years ago: how much happens what we didn't expect and how much of what we expected didn't show up? It requires modesty and yet I quote: confidence in the future. For over the past three years, we have been able to move in the right direction, even though we believe that the Christian Union still needs a real reform of the housing market, the labour market and the tax system. For now, I will leave the subject of taxation aside, because we will soon be discussing the whole tax package in marathon sessions with the Secretary of State. In the run-up to that, the Christian Union is presenting its proposal for a hopefully realistic tax reform, which will make our tax system fairer and simpler. Of course, it is still clear that we have to get rid of the surcharges, in line with last year's broadly adopted Bruins/Van Weyenberg motion. But also in the current Millions note there are a number of promising steps. For example, the differentiation of transfer tax is a good step to improve the position of start-ups in the housing market. This was in line with my colleague Mr Dik-Faber's previous motion. The 150 million invested in the child-related budget from the third child is also good news. This straightens out the support for those slightly larger families with that for the smaller families. In addition, the basic rate for the first disc finally goes down instead of up. Finally, I am thinking of the plans for a guarantee fund. This will make additional money available to combat poverty and problematic debt. This fund should make it possible for problematic debt to be paid off smartly and quickly and for people to see a clean slate and a debt-free future. I ask the Minister what progress has been made in implementing and setting up this guarantee fund. Mr. Chairman. Today the Financial Reviews are and of course it is about money, but it is about much more. Because the rich budget shows who we are as a country and how the government contributes to a thriving society. And although GDP figures might tell us something about growth and economy, they don't tell us anything about how we really are. When you buy a pack of cigarettes, that's welfare-enhancing in terms of GDP, and the same goes for your lung doctor's treatment. Like Mr Nijboer, I say: well-being is more than prosperity. So it's not just caught in numbers, but it's wider than that. This broad concept of prosperity deserves an explicit place in policies and proposals aimed at growth. Support packages, budgets and tax plans have an impact not only on our economic growth, but also on our well-being, on that of future generations and on that of other countries, in short, on the here and now but also on the there and later. I think it is desirable to ensure this broad concept of prosperity even better in the policy and budgetary cycle: broad prosperity as a standard, GDP as a footnote. The Council of State is right to urge us to take further criteria for broad prosperity, transitions and the quality of expenditure. I am thinking, for example, of education and social progress, but also of ecological factors and sustainability and our outstretched hand to the poorest of the world. How does the Minister see the role of broad welfare indicators in terms of planned policies and investments? Is he willing to develop further criteria and give them a more prominent place? There is still much to gain in this area. For example, look at New Zealand, where broad prosperity has an explicit place in the budgetary system. Or think of a prominent role for different planning agencies to keep a new coalition agreement under review from a broad welfare perspective. Do you think we could meet here? Finally, on this point, perhaps a little ahead of schedule, I would like to ask how the Minister sees the place of the broad concept of prosperity in, for example, the review of proposals for the growth fund. Is it sufficient to refer to the SMEA, as the Prime Minister did in the General Political Reviews? Or are broad prosperity and the impact on future generations and other countries therefore part of the balancing framework? Mr. Chairman. Last year I said that the absurd thing had become the new normal. At that time, I was referring in particular to the ECB's quantitative expansion, negative interest rates and the high marginal tax burden for some groups. At that time I could not believe that in the present context normality would be even more absurd. A temporary national debt of more than 60% or 70% may be justified, but the long-term release of European fiscal rules has risks to the stability of the euro area in the longer term. The Council of State also sees these dangers and points out that within one cabinet period the European debt standard of 60% must be restored. In this light, the current Minister's suggestion that debt reduction could take up to 20 years is striking. On the other hand, these days, strangely enough, public debt has an economic element in it. As long as nominal economic growth is higher than government bond interest rates, public debt costs nothing. Last year, in the debate on the Autumn note, I asked for a motion to focus on various scenarios relating to discount rates and productivity growth. I ask the Minister when we can look forward to the implementation of this motion. After all, if the discount rate falls below the structural growth rate of the economy, sustainability figures lose value and significance. This has consequences for how you feel about fiscal rules and government debt. That makes the fixation on a certain number, 60% or 70% of public debt, debatable. So, although we have to get back to a financial normal budgetary policy soon after this crisis, that doesn't mean we have to go back to, for example, a government debt of a certain percentage as soon as possible. This is a different approach from that of the Council of State. How does the Minister view this? Is a higher state debt a moral problem? Or is it for macroeconomic reasons to defend? How does he intend to deal with the risk that interest rates will ever rise again? What does this do with the European dynamics of budgetary rules? For example, I would like to ask Mr Nijboer and Mr Tinbergen. Mr. Chairman. Briefly about the municipalities and the social domain. In the debate on the Spring paper, I asked the Minister to identify the financial problems caused by the corona crisis in municipalities and to involve this in the August decision-making process. What exactly came to municipalities and what was needed in terms of commitment to the social domain? At that time it was promised to bring this to the attention of the responsible directors. I am now asking the Minister what is going on with this. Is there a view of what municipalities need? How much certainty do they have by now? Is it not wise to look further ahead now and look into the effects of the crisis on municipalities in the coming years and whether they have been equipped to do so at all? Can they handle it? I am talking not only about financial, but also about capacity and expertise. Mr. Chairman. Among the measures presented with Prince's Day, there are also a few new lottery tickets to the tribe, such as the BIK. It's already been discussed. It is quite logical to make investment more attractive in crisis times, but there is still much unclear. What the cabinet can say about the arrangement, we have seen in the letter, but that all sounds rather socially desirable but very vague. That must be more concrete and convincing in six days' time, I say to the Secretary of State. Does the cabinet also provide an SME test by the IKK, as agreed for new arrangements? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European money. In the debate on the European Recovery Fund, the Sjoerdsma/Bruins motion called on the Cabinet to carefully consider how to make the Netherlands benefit fully from this recovery fund. Devoting to the future requires commitment to innovation, such as Horizon Europe, and less to Structural Funds. If movement is still possible in Europe, if movement is possible, will the cabinet continue to focus on innovation and above all on those pillars where we score well within Horizon Europe, such as ERC and public-private cooperation? Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution with the stoic Seneca. The corona crisis makes it clear how relatively our creative thinking and our sense of control are. That incalculability Seneca is talking about is the incalculability of the corona crisis. It has clearly shown weaknesses, including in our economy. The economic impact is mainly felt by vulnerable groups, young people,zzp'ers and flex workers. The CPB rightly points out that it is now the challenge to address the underlying inequality, so that a next crisis affects a stronger society. As a government, parliament and government, let us take up this challenge and therefore work for the prosperity of society. Because being surrounded by uncertainty does not relieve us of the duty to do our best, with confidence in the future. Let me therefore end with a sober advice from another stoic, Epictetus. He wrote: we must do as well as possible what is in our power and, for the rest, deal with the circumstances as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u175	We will continue with the debate on the General Financial Reviews. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking over this debate from Mr Van Raan, who could not be present because of circumstances. I could only join later because I had a debate for this with the Minister of LNV. Apologies for that, not for that debate with the Minister of LNV, but because I couldn't get here earlier. So it wasn't a disinterest. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance told us about explorers and fortune seekers in 1630 and about black swans, who in the course of the centuries have become a symbol of something that you can't predict because you don't even know it's there. You don't know there's black swans until you see them. The Minister compared the corona crisis with a black swan, but I would like to compare the state of the country's finances with a white swan, the white swan used by our national airline for years as an unpaid model in its advertising campaigns. KLM's commitment is symptomatic of how this budget does not focus on the future, but on the past, on business as usual. KLM is a company that together with fossil partner Air France is engaged in a hell of a dive on the stock exchange. It can count on almost unconditional support from the cabinet. Although there are many more people employed in healthcare, in the arts and culture sector and in the catering industry than in aviation, aviation has a special place in the cabinet. That raises questions. KLM has now been able to count on 3.4 billion in public support, but more is now needed, because the prospects are poor. At the start of this debate, the entire Air France-KLM group was still worth 1.24 billion. At the end of this debate, in a few days' time, that value is expected to decrease further. The Minister bought 14% of Air France-KLM's shares in February 2019 with 750 million euros in public money, under conditions that we discussed extensively. The value of this interest, which, according to the Court of Auditors, should not have been bought, has now been reduced to 170 million, i.e. no less than 75% loss. Air France-KLM is a bottomless well, but the cabinet proposes to make billions available to the company without many sustainability conditions, billions that are mainly for the benefit of leasing companies in Ireland, who pay hardly any tax, and to suppliers of duty-free kerosene, with whom future contracts have been concluded, which is not so convenient if you hardly need kerosene because of the crisis. I ask the Minister to respond to this, because it indicates how much the current budgetary system is founded in outdated thinking, throwing money at evil in good money. Why does the government not use the crisis as an opportunity to achieve the sustainability our country and the world are longing for? This should be done in the light of the economic crisis, the raw materials crisis, the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis, the major consequences that we see for the entire world population and for the emergence of uncontrolled refugee flows. I'd like a response. Now borrowing money is making money, it seems like the cabinet's adage, but public debt is rising to record heights, which will have to be repaid by future generations. If we burden our children with that obligation, they will also have to pay more attention to their interests. We have an obligation not only to leave debts to them, but above all to a viable planet. Our legacy must not consist of negligence. Our children cannot reject this legacy. They're gonna have to do with it. Expensive gifts for the polluting business sector and the support packages that companies need to keep in the air that are not actually viable are the most expensive election campaign ever, a festive budget in crisis time. This is done without the radical change of direction that is needed according to numerous advisory bodies, such as the Plan Bureau for the Environment in the Netherlands, but also internationally the IPBES in the field of biodiversity or the IPCC in relation to climate. For example, what does coalition party D66 say to the words of her Eminence Grise, Jan Terlouw, who describes the corona pandemic as "a whiff, a sigh, compared to the storm that awaits our children through global warming"? The cabinet is more concerned about the locational climate than about the climate crisis. The Minister's Millions Note focuses on consolidation: more of the same. Instead of taking the entire budget as a transition fund, there will be a mini-Wopke-Wiebes fund to secure the earning capacity of the Netherlands. What does the Minister himself think of the implementation of our motion to include broad prosperity development in the Millions note, in order to prevent breeding? Yes, there is a framework in the Millions Note, for which thanks, but the Minister will agree that this can only be a start. What contribution has been made to uncovering policy areas? I note that the broad concept of prosperity is still not part of the policy cycle, but that must be the aim. I'd like a response. The Corona Support Packages are also focused only on macroeconomic indicators. Is the Minister prepared to define broad welfare objectives for the next financial year for corona support? Are the corona euros rolling in the right direction? We now have a chance to get greener and better out of the crisis than we did when we got into it. Why does the Minister opt for another package of aid which does not contain any incentive to green up? The answers to our written questions on NOW 1.0 show that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is not prepared to reflect, not in terms of ethics, nor in terms of efficiency. I would like to hear from the Minister how he thinks about ethics and efficiency of generic support measures that delay a green transition. I'm considering a motion. How does the Minister intend to make our economy resilient without returning to business as usual? The economy has already changed so much. Oil prices have fallen enormously. All the Minister has to do is stop subsidising fossil fuels. Is the Minister prepared to reap this low-hanging fruit to combat climate change? We are also considering a motion for a resolution. Green coming out of the crisis and a resilient economy also require a radical change in the tax system, not labour being taxed but anything that puts pressure on our living environment, so anything that is scarce or polluting. Has a fifteen-minute maker already started the broad social review of our food system? We will soon come up with a proposal for a slaughter tax, in accordance with the polluter pays principle. While the world is on fire, this minister makes plans to keep the e.g. the Netherlands running and increase the earning capacity. During the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister said several times that projects from the Growth Fund should not harm the climate, but the severity of the climate and biodiversity crisis requires that every next euro spent has a positive impact on climate and biodiversity. So it goes far beyond "not allowed to harm." In order to have earning capital in the Netherlands at all in the future, should the Gróéi Fund not be a green fund and therefore actually a shrinking fund? For example, allow the unimaginably large number of animals in livestock farming to shrink. That's 650 million animals a year. I'm just gonna remind you. That's 40 animal stables for every Dutchman. And does the cabinet still rank for a 1.5 meter underwater economy instead of the necessary 1.5°C economy? Isn't it harsh that companies that invest in machines that make people redundant will soon be allowed to deduct the costs from the payroll tax, according to the BIK? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The cabinet keeps asking people to comply with the rules: 1.5 meters. Now we ask the Cabinet to abide by the rules: 1.5°C. We do not want a bookkeeper's cabinet that controls spending ceilings and funding of state finances, but millions of notes and budgets with ceilings that really matter, such as CO and nitrogen emission ceilings, but also raw material ceilings and the ambition to drop World Overshoot Day in our country later instead of earlier. We want a cabinet that no longer supports polluters, sick people and animal executioners, because those who harm the public interest must not be supported by general means. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u177	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u178	Mr. Chairman. "Uncertainty" is a word that has recently fallen into many living rooms. Does my job still exist next year? Do I get enough assignments for our family business? Here in this Chamber, too, many things are uncertain. Are we doing enough to support and support the economy? How high is the public debt? Uncertainty is not new, uncertainty is of all times. Look at Job, a rich farmer from the Bible. He had his affairs in order, but I'm sure the Minister and the Secretary of State will know the story after a while Job loses everything: no business, no capital and no family anymore. Uncertainty about the future. For those of you who don't know the story, I recommend you read the whole Bible book. You can learn a lot from it. Mr. Chairman. On the points I have just mentioned, I would like to go into a little more detail: the family, the entrepreneurs and the treasury. I'm taking the growth fund into account as well. First the family. It's good to have money for the child-related budget, but as far as we're concerned, that may be more. Because the carrying capacity of families with children is under pressure. That is why I ask the Minister whether it is not time for a more family-friendly tax system. The tax gap between the one- and two-earners has not declined in recent years, but has grown steadily, despite promises made in the coalition agreement and despite alarming reports from, for example, the Central Planning Office. Why wasn't there anything done about that rift? Has it actually been considered to narrow that gap in this cabinet period? I'd like to get a reaction to that. It's good that a committee is going to look at carrying capacity and the tax system. Mr Omtzigt has taken an initiative and that has been taken up. My question is very specific: does it include the capacity of the family? Mr. Chairman. Then I turn to entrepreneurs, especially SMEs. The cabinet wants to invest out of the crisis. Does the Minister agree that this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises? How does the Minister ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises can continue to grow despite the crisis? Mr. Chairman. With the Tax Plan I hope to return to the storage of energy taxes, but I do have a few questions about this already. Does the Minister see that the ODE levy has grown too high? Am I reading that right? Is it true that there has been some kind of compensation of 25 million for the next two years? I would like an answer to this. My impression is that this does not do justice to the burden increase for SMEs, for example for greenhouse horticulture. I do not think it fits in with the energy strategy to make the step from gas to electric either. I've heard several people say, "Maybe I should get back to the gas." Mr. Chairman. Third, public finances. Last year I was named by the Volkskrant the last Zeeland girl in the House of Representatives. I think I really am a boy, but well, the SGP was then characterized as the only party that really stood up for financial soundness. The same newspaper wrote two weeks ago that the SGP is the only party still awake from public finances. I've taken that as a compliment, but if I'm being completely honest, it hurts me. Of course, it makes sense that the state debt has been incurred. The SGP has also strongly supported the necessary support packages. But we also have to be honest: that sovereign debt must be paid off sometime. I have the impression that we are getting over that very easily. The Prime Minister said the following in the General Reviews. "We've built up a big buffer." That's right. "The interest rate is low and we are growing out of the crisis." But a low interest rate can't be a reason not to pay off the debt, can it? Why is the Prime Minister, and with that I think the rest of the cabinet, so sure of strong economic growth? The treacherous corona virus is resurrected. My question is: are public finances prepared for this? I actually agree with the Council of State that calls for a budget stress test. My question is therefore what the Minister thinks of that. For example, the Council also points to the lack of sustainability. My question is how the Minister looks at this. But I am not the only one, I understand that Mr Bruins has also asked questions about this from a slightly different perspective. Mr. Chairman. Last year, the trend in fiscal policy, the salmon standard, was abandoned, and now the cabinet offers little prospect of reducing government debt in the long term. My thesis, following our contribution to the General Reviews, is: already give a clear perspective on the reduction of public debt. I would also like to hear a reaction to that. After all, sound and sound public finances have proved very important towards this crisis, but they are also towards the next crisis, which is undoubtedly to come. Mr. Chairman. In the European Union, too, we are hearing noises to let go of all the reins of the budgetary rules. The President of the European Commission does not want budgetary discipline for the time being, and France has already said that it does not want to go back to European budgetary rules. Does the Minister agree with me that, after the corona crisis, the EU's budgetary rules should simply apply again? And is he going to make an active commitment to that? That is still separate from the recovery fund that has been rigged up. I think it is unfair that we are seeing the burdens here in the Netherlands, for example those earners and entrepreneurs I have just appointed, while in Italy we want to reduce taxes considerably with support money coming from, among other things, the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then the local authorities. They have been struggling for years to get their budget in order. They are now seriously considering closing down libraries, swimming pools or village houses. My question is how the government looks at this problem. Then there's the growth fund. To be honest, that is just a real dilemma for us. On the one hand, we see the need for investment to maintain that earning capacity of the Netherlands in the future. Indeed, the fund should not be too close to politics. No political grabbedton. But the other side is: how do we ensure that the growth fund really guarantees a future earning ability? I didn't ask the VVD for nothing before: do you have a visual on what's underneath? Well, I don't have it. My question is, at the same time, with things that I see now being appointed: why can't we just invest it through the budget? I would also like to point out to the Minister that we already have an Infrastructure Fund, for example, and also a Future Fund. I get the impression that the Court's budget law is being compromised. The Chamber gives a well-stocked wallet to the Commission and must hope that that money will be well spent. Why hasn't politics been given a final opinion on whether the projects can finally continue? How do we guarantee the Commission's independence, even in the future? In the end, does the Commission not simply make political choices? The General Court and the Council of State are particularly critical of the Fund. For example, the General Court has serious doubts about the use of a non-departmental budget. Speed has actually been the main reason for using it. Why does the cabinet not take more time to shape the fund properly, so that the Court's budget law is really intact? And why wasn't it just chosen for a budget fund? I hope to get clear and confidence-building answers to my critical approach. They really need to be put in place, and I would like to make it quite clear here that we want to support the cabinet in this growth fund. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion. I started my contribution with uncertainty and with the Bible book Job. And I'm shutting that down, too. For in spite of all adversity Job regained faith in God, and in spite of that uncertainty he kept hope. And I hope that families, entrepreneurs and, above all, the government can have or get this job confidence. And I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u179	That was a nice, solid story, in line with Mr Stoffer's party. But I still have a number of questions for Mr Stoffer. I understand he's very concerned about how we keep it financially sound. But if I'm going to go through this list, there clearly needs to be more relief for families. Something more needs to be done for entrepreneurs. I haven't heard from Mr Stoffer about defence. Actually, on the one hand, I hear the call for economics: not a penny too much. And on the other hand, the wish list doesn't stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u180	In my view, this is an observation and not really a question. But, of course, I would like to say something about that, because I understand what the observation is. I like it very much, because just last week I looked at the CPB calculations, including for the forthcoming election programme, together with people from the group and a policy officer who is now in the back of the room. Then you see that the government debt rises to 65%, and maybe it's a little higher in the years 2025 and beyond. At the moment, I'm really doing some rounds on how we can go back to that 60%, because I really think that's necessary. That's gonna hurt. I will honestly say that I am really looking at where I find these measures, particularly in the Social Affairs and Employment budget and the VWS budget. Those are the big bulks, aren't they? This figure is, of course, based on the sustainability of public finances. So in that direction, I'm really gonna look. Those are going to be quite painful choices, but that's where I'm looking for it to really come in that direction, and that's not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u181	Mr. Slootweg, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u182	That's the last thing I have left open. Can you still light up a little bit of the veil in that regard? It is, of course, about next year's budget. Is there anything you'd like to do there? In fact, I am a little surprised that Mr Stoffer has now stopped at 60%, because last year 45% was actually a little too large. What can we count on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u183	I'm glad Mr. Slootweg indicated that. What we are actually asking the government is: please give perspective. Now it is pretended to run away from that 65%, 66% or 67%. Now give perspective and tell me which direction you can go to get back to that 60%. That is the first task. We are doing so on the basis of the conditions imposed by the European Union on the budgets. So that's one. The beginning is already difficult, of course, because the question is when the corona crisis is over. Certainly not yet. So we also say: outline a bit of scenario in that. Suppose that crisis lasts a long time, then it has to go back a little further, because now braking is not really the intention. That 60% is the beginning. Hopefully, in the years after that, we'll just go back into the waves of economic booms. Then, as with the previous crisis, we go back to that 40% or 45%, which seems quite stable. Of course, that was the case during the last crisis, but this is not the previous one. But this is our commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u184	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan, on behalf of the DENK Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're in the middle of a second corona wave. This has a major impact on our economy. Entrepreneurs indicate that they can carry it harder and harder. They're threatening to fall. And the semi-intelligent lockdown proclaimed by the cabinet will, of course, again be the proverbial neck blow for many entrepreneurs. That actually means that the bad predictions about our economy and our society are coming true. It's getting harder. The second wave scenario of the CPB assumes 1% additional economic contraction and an economic contraction of 3.5% next year instead of the earlier expected economic growth. Unemployment is likely to increase by many percentage points and public debt is 10% higher. It's going to be about 72%. Mr. Chairman. If you were to make a graph of the sovereign debt that is huge and on the other hand make a graph of who is the most popular minister, then Mr.Wopke Hoekstra is on the right as the most popular minister, while he has also spent an enormous amount of money. Unbelievable. I think he spent more money than the entire Den Uyl cabinet sometime in the 1970s. It's unbelievable. Moreover, I do not think there is any coherence there, as Mr Baudet often suggests. At least, there is a connection, but no causality I'm gonna let you get out of there quickly. In any case, a lot of money has been spent. The question is how that's gonna work out. My question is: does the government already have a scenario for how to deal with the budget in the second wave? When will the Chamber be informed? Written questions have been asked. It has been stated that these financial estimates are simply not there. I can't imagine. Otherwise, I'm gonna ask why there aren't. Why haven't the scenarios been calculated? To what extent are the principles and policies presented on Princess Day still realistic after that second wave? We talked about it last week, and we already referred to it then, but when will the corona aid package be reviewed in the light of these changing circumstances? Does the government share the view that, given the second wave, the austerity of the aid package is not at issue and that additional measures may be needed? Today, the last General Financial Reviews, at least that is my expectation, of Minister Hoekstra, are assisted by two State Secretarys. We used to have one, but now we have two. We can take stock of the situation a little bit. If we take that balance, then we can only look at the housekeeping booklet, not only from the Netherlands, but especially from the Dutch. DENK stands for a government that actively wants to ensure that we share the wealth in our country fairly. On this subject, we must note that the cabinet has contributed to greater income inequality. If you want to say it a little scientifically, you actually come to: if you make little money, you get less, and if you make a lot of money, you get more. That's the conclusion. People with a lower income got less from this cabinet at every Princess's Day. Last year and the year before, we had the luxury of talking to each other about 0.5% income growth. Now that's over, too, but I've been doing some math for a while. Someone who earns €75,000 has received almost €1,500 from this cabinet in four years. Someone with an income of €20,000 to €25,000 has had to do it with a small €300. Of course, that has everything to do with the increase in the burden: the increase in the care premium, the absurd increase in the rents, if you can already find a home, the towering own risk and the anti-social increase in the tax on fruit and vegetables. If we include local burdens, such as waste taxes and waste-water taxes, then the low-income people are simply in the dark. The conclusion is therefore that this cabinet has increased income inequality. My first question to the cabinet, or actually the second one by now, is: how do they look back on that? Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the distribution of income? The greatest form of income inequality is actually in wealth. 1% of the Dutch own 25% of the assets. 10% of the Dutch own 70% of the assets. That's actually absurd. It's actually just unfair. Only in ultra-capitalist countries such as the United States is this inequality even greater. I would therefore like to ask the cabinet what it thinks of this hugely unequal distribution. Despite the fact that the gini coefficient in power has fallen slightly in recent years, it simply cannot be justified and we must also look at what this cabinet has done. It can't be that 10% of the Dutch own 70% of the assets. Then something about the growth fund. What are we supposed to do with that? The Netherlands has had a similar fund. It wasn't exactly a success: the Fund's economic structural strengthening. It existed from 1995 to 2010. There was about 40% of the natural gas benefits in it. The new growth fund is filled with cheap credits. The reason is that the government can borrow so cheaply. Of course there's the following underneath. It sounds so beautiful: we want to increase our earning capacity. But, yeah, how are we gonna do that? Do we not have the same problems as with the FES, namely that the money is looking for projects instead of the other way around? Of course, I'd like to give Wopke and Wiebes their place in history. In that sense, Minister Hoekstra has already earned him. He's seen the biggest sovereign debt ever, including in percentage. I think it was in 1922 that we had 10% deficit, but that was due to sewers and military setbacks. That was 200 million, by the way. This is going a little higher. When it comes to the growth fund, it seems as if the starting point was: the interest rate is low - even negative for the government - we have money and then we are going to do something with it. We have to do something with that. Why is this 20 billion not being invested, for example by Invest-NL or regional development companies? These banks have a little more experience. They're also investment vehicles. They have experience with corporate accounting. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the advisory committee that is going to decide on those projects of 30 million and above. Who see names like Jeroen, Laura, Robbert, Feike? I would say: isn't it time at this time for a little more diversity in that club? I am therefore considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. What is also not going to work to get the Netherlands critical is a blank cheque for the big companies. I already talked about this with the colleague of the VVD. Well, then, of course, I'm talking about the Job-oriented Investment Discount. Two times two billion. That's 4 billion for the years to come. There is no form of elaboration and the cabinet has already decided that the tax rebate for large companies will be introduced. The cheque has already been signed, while it still has to be made clear how the government is going to do it, what the terms will be and whether it is going to do anything at all. I never know why the Minister is prepared to go into his deepest fibers, at least that was the Prime Minister in the dividend tax, who happened to be 2 billion to issue that blank cheque of 4 billion for business. In any case, I hope to be able to get an answer to that before 5 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u186	Finish your sentence, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u187	The sentence is finished. I was just about to start the 300 million present, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u188	Okay. Then I'm going to see Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u189	To not end this evening completely without interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u190	Well, I just got word that you're actually out of your interruptions. But you can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u191	That's a big deal for you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I hear Mr Azarkan a number of times about large companies, large companies, large companies. Now I read in the letter we received just before the debate that it is expected that around 60% of the BIK reduction will reach SMEs. Does he have any reason to expect this to be incorrect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u192	I don't have that expectation. I think it is a good thing that this gets to SMEs, but my conclusion is that the large amounts initially end up in very large companies. So I have to read the whole effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u193	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u194	Mr. Chairman. I have noticed with increasing amazement that the cabinet reserves EUR 300 million to possibly participate in a kind of solvency fund that sounds nice for VNO-NCW. I don't know why the cabinet decides to transfer it to the Malie Tower. Why go to the lobbying organisation of the big companies, which, among other things, advocated dividend taxation at the time without any justification? Anyway, we're done with that. What's it about me? At a time when Dutch people who claim support must turn every dime, it cannot be that the government transfers EUR 4.3 billion to large companies without any form of accountability or justification. If you as a Dutchman want to get a poor €1,500 out of the corona package, you will be fairly pulled apart. Then you have to back everything up. People don't understand that. That's unfair. Mr. Chairman. Then something else, about the investments. What's going to work if we're gonna increase those investments? Actually, we already have one of those growth funds. We have 1,500 billion euros in the pension fund. In the time of the previous crisis, around 2011, I spoke to one of those large pension funds. They literally said we have enough money. The money blew up against the plinths, even in the time of the greatest crisis. They needed projects that were running quietly. We have to conclude that 88% of our pension assets are invested abroad, not here, and only 12% in the Netherlands. In the 1990s, pension funds still invested 50% in the Netherlands. So money isn't the problem. The problem is that we need projects that render quietly. If we were to bring a small part of our pension assets back to the Netherlands, this could give the economy a huge boost, much more than that BIK of 2 billion, the solvency fund of 300 million and the growth fund of 20 billion. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a point that DENK has repeatedly called for attention to be given to. There are still insufficient opportunities in the Netherlands to finance a house free of interest. One calls it interest-free banking, the other a halal mortgage. People need a loan without paying interest on it. One does so from religious regulations and the other from principles of expression. For them, this means that interest is not allowed. As a result, some Dutch people have been sentenced to expensive rentals, especially in the middle sector. They are therefore deprived of the advantages of their own home. And this while there are interest-free alternatives that make buying a house possible for these people. For example, you can think of rent purchase, where the bank becomes co-owner of the property, there is paid every month for the part that is not yet owned and reimbursed. I would therefore ask the government to make interest-free mortgages accessible and accessible to all Dutch people. This is already the practice in many countries. Why it can't be done in the Netherlands is just unknown to me. For how nice would it be if we could use this to transcend capitalist usury with money and debt and offer everyone a nice alternative so that they can also benefit from the advantages of buying their own house? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u195	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS. Mr Van Otterloo has 30 minutes' speaking time. I can't believe you're gonna sit in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u196	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad everyone's looking forward to that. Mr. Chairman. Last year we had a motion stating that these were exceptional times and that exceptional measures could actually be taken with pensions, but I could not have imagined, as I said earlier in the case of interruption, that there could be another form, a superb staircase, of exceptional times, as is the case now. We're dealing with a corona crisis that's chopping deep into it. We have a Monitor Brede Prosperity that showed last year that older people in particular were worse off. If you read the monitor, you can see that for the 65- to 75-year-olds more than 25% of the indicators were negative, but 9.2% of the indicators were positive and the rest remained the same. And what do we see now? We see a situation in which people overwhelm a great sense of threat. We are also talking here today about what the government itself does in its own financial system. In that respect, I would also like to refer to what Mr Stoffer said. I can follow him when it comes to solidity, but solidity and courage belong together. When I have a company, which I have had and still have a little, I look at how I can handle the money in the smartest way. Then I'm not postponing investment or spending if I know I'm going to have to pay a lot more for it later. Then I will do so when the money is cheap and I know there will be inflation. Similarly, as a government, you need to see how you can invest at any time at the lowest cost to society. I am also from the time when a 60% rule was adopted, which over the years has been given a holiness. I can assure you that percentage was more of a coincidence than a firm conviction. Because what we are talking about here in the area of public finances is the question of whether we can bear the burden. Then we are talking about the burden of the investment you have to pay off and the interest charges. If you can now borrow cheaply the government has just been able to raise money at a negative interest rate of 0.45%........................................................................................................................................... I'll come back later on to the story of the growth fund. That's the job that needs to be done right now. We must now ensure that we link courage and solidity. I have already challenged the Prime Minister in the discussion on the European Recovery Fund to follow a thought experiment, but he did not dare. He said he left that to his finance minister. When we look at Europe, we see that the Netherlands is characterised by a low level of public debt, even today, a very low level of public debt, and a high level of private debt. I am not so much concerned about the high public debt as about the relationship between the two. This means that there is also a certain imbalance in our own economy compared to that of other countries. With a high level of private debt, we also ensure that we are not able to serve our citizens sufficiently. That is why I ask the Minister of Finance to follow the next experiment. What would be the consequences if we could increase public debt and reduce private debt so that it would be more balanced? As far as we are concerned, this could well lead to an interesting outcome, namely a less vulnerable economy than today. And that's what this is all about, isn't it? A number of speakers have already told us in smells and colors how terrible it is with the recovery fund. That's part imaging. In the opinion of people, we have won the Roman glory with all the acid, there is a Spanish fiesta budget or an Italian macho budget, and Macron spends all our money. But apart from that, you have to find that in other calculations Dutch people look like those who make a lot of money from Europe. Only, that feeling isn't there with the people. And why is that? Because people themselves do not experience that Europe brings them much into the wallet. So that has to do with dividing what comes in. Where do profits come in and where are the charges then laid down, including by public policy? In this respect, I also think it is important that we try to make that clear. And where the government has room, it must itself ensure that everyone feels that Europe, if that is so important, is also contributing to our prosperity. One final comment on this document, Mr President. Everyone in Europe should be able to stop their own pants. But at the same time we believe that we in the Netherlands should also be able to decide for ourselves what we spend the money on. And on that point, we disagree with other parties in relation to the recovery fund. We believe that countries should be able to make their own political considerations. For we would not accept it if other countries now said with the recovery fund, for example, that the Netherlands should now abolish mortgage interest as soon as possible because our households have such high private debt. We believe that fiscal autonomy is very important and we do not want to sacrifice it in any way. Mr. Chairman. I'm on the National Green Fund. No, I'm sorry, it's the National Growth Fund; this slip may be saying something, but that's not my criticism. My criticism is about the following. I didn't make it up, but I already started last June that in the current situation, with the low interest rates and so on, we should also look at the opportunities that this offers. I said then that we should see if this should not lead us to raise some more money, in order to do something about the strength of the Netherlands. That summer there were the first rumors about the Wopke-Wiebes fund. And then there was a proposal. We had a discussion here about the growth fund. That discussion was rather disappointing in our view, because it was very much thought of only investments that could be taken up or that would be less easy to catch in computer science and the like. We do not think enough about investing in people. We believe more that you must put people into their power, and that you can do so as a society, as a whole. Society is made up of people. That is why, as far as we are concerned, you should think more about investing in training, in further training and in continuous improvement of quality. But of course we also have a list of things that we think are easy to improve the quality of the Dutch infrastructure. Whether it's a new coastline, Schiphol in the sea, a fast connection from Amsterdam to Groningen or a real North-South line from Utrecht to Breda; there are all kinds of things to consider that would improve the power of the Netherlands. We do not think it is a good solution, although we understand with our background as consultants of Wopke and Wiebes that they like to put it at a distance, but also consultants have their own fashionable views. If so much money is spent, we believe that this should be made into a political decision-making process. We are in good company here, at least as we see it, from both the Court of Auditors and Mr Ruding. I think it would be a good thing if we could talk about this here and we could decide things, because then there could be more consideration and much more consideration. It would greatly improve the transparency of decision-making if we could do so here in politics. In addition, the amount is not leading but following as far as we are concerned. That has to do with the investments that matter and which we all agree in democracy that they should be done, or at least a majority, and not a lobbyable group of so-called experts, who then decide in a sort of back room and whose outcome we can only see. Mr. Chairman. I told you, we're in the corona crisis. One of the things that has not yet been discussed is that I have also asked Mrs De Vries that there are many victims in the corona crisis in economic terms besides the victims in terms of health, but that there are also winners. The question to the cabinet, to which I would like an answer, is how the winners can contribute to the costs we have to make to cope with the suffering of the losers. Whether it is the manufacturers of medicines, the suppliers of plexiglass, but also the supermarkets and companies that work online; there are also winners as a whole. How does the cabinet now ensure that we all do so, and so it does not mean that in the future only the citizens will be charged with the full support we have given to the whole? It is also a question of how we can achieve a kind of tax on profits. Mr. Chairman. In the whole debate on public finances, the plightful financial position of municipalities plays a minor role. Last year we talked about the step-on-step principle, about all the problems, but now the municipalities are really going down. This means that a sustainable financial position for the municipalities really needs to be put in place. This also means, above all, sustainable towards the future. The measures proposed here are valid for one or two years. Then it goes back to the old level, while all kinds of tasks are transferred. I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance how much room there is in the discussion with the UNG to talk about this. Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't give the Secretary of State enough to take home with me if I didn't say something about taxes too. If I may make a compliment, I can say that the approach to box 3 has become somewhat simpler than the predecessor had in mind. But it's far from a solution. We are still dealing with expropriation issues from the previous approach. The same principle has been applied in recent years, which is not off the table. So we simply want a different approach to this issue, an approach that gives more peace and quiet. We would like to know what it would cost if you would make that foot with €25,000 higher each time than the cabinet is proposing. We shall come back to that in the Tax Plan. We would also like to know whether a solution can be found for all those small entrepreneurs who have reserved an amount for their pension because they have just saved up. You might not have thought I would start with this when it comes to pensions, but they never had a tax advantage because they could deduct the premiums or the purchase price. These entrepreneurs complain about the fact that they are being used for a higher return on their savings, while, if the amount is comparable to a good pension, they even have to pay money to the bank. So the question is how does the Secretary of State intend to solve this? Mr. Chairman. Last year we also talked about the housing crisis. We also discussed the need to free up the landlord's levy. It is five years since the nursing homes were closed down and a gap arose between independent living and protected living. This gap has created a blockage in the housing market, along with the other problems of under-building. We believe that the landlord levy should at least be reduced as soon as possible for the initiatives to fill that gap. By abolishing thezzp in health care that is something other than self-employed without staff; those are the care gravity packages 100,000 places have disappeared. Those people need to be housed and there are only plans now. And you can't live in plans. I won't repeat what Jan Schaefer said. That means you really have to do something. You have to make sure that corporations are given the financial resources to realize reasonably cheap elderly housing, because per nursing home you need about six Knarrenhoffen or care home complexes to cover the gap of the closed care homes alone. And you're not even talking about growth. Mr. Chairman. When I look at what else the Tax Plan brings, I start with age discrimination. That might be surprisingly not at the top, but at the bottom. There's a starter plan, at least it's been sold as a starter plan, in which people who haven't been 35 years can get a discount. But it's not a real starter's plan, because someone under that age who already has his own home because, for example, he had already received €100,000 from his parents and was so lucky to get to a store, is still benefiting from it, while all those people without rich parents who had waited until they had finished their study funding are excluded. After all, you haven't finished your study funding by the age of 35. So, to put it plastically, how can I explain to that 44-year-old nurse who has just cut off her student debt that she is not satisfied with the purchase of her first home, while someone 34 years old and 10 months old who has been in a sales house for ten years can get it? So that seems to us to be a very bad approach. If you want to do something, do it at a higher age limit, so that the student debt can be repaid. Finally, that will not surprise us. First of all, I must congratulate the Minister on putting an end to usury interest. The difference between the interest to be paid on a consumer credit and the actual interest rate was too large. But when it comes to pensions, we have the opposite. Once again, the citizen is in trouble, because the pensioner gets nothing of all the returns that there are. And if it's up to the cabinet, this won't happen for the next ten years. We just received a letter yesterday on pensions. So it will be dealt with later. But the question is what the Minister, who is also reasonably responsible for purchasing power stories, has to tell pensioners when you look at what the situation is. If nothing else happens, 1.3 million pensioners will be threatened with a reduction in their pension as of 2021. Something must be done there, because without other measures that will be the case. In fact, the Minister's letter states that it may not be as bad as it is now, he cannot say for sure yet, but that in 2022 it may amount to minus 10% for pensioners. If one thing is needed now, it is a boost to economic spending. But you do write down all the elders by just giving them an uncertain future. I also find that uncertain future illustrated by what happened at ABN AMRO, who felt that someone aged 60 years or older when he had a pension had insufficient certainty about that pension. Now that may be the opinion of ABN AMRO on the government's pension plans, but it is too crazy to say that if you have such age discrimination, the Kifid, which already has no best reputation in that area, then finds that there is no age discrimination? I would like to hear from the Minister whether he also considers that there is no age discrimination in this case. I find it strange when the Kifid takes the test of the Constitution in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u197	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u198	Mr. President, members of the Cabinet, members of staff. We live in strange and uncertain times, when it really makes little sense to look at purchasing power figures, CPB estimates and percentage points more or less. There are too many uncertainties, too many black swans to borrow a metaphor from the Minister of Finance. It is a time of great changes that will have a staggering impact on the Netherlands and the Dutch economy. Some may think that things are not going to go so fast, that our prosperity and our way of life are going to stay intact. After all, all that money seems free. At the moment, the government is even receiving money from government loans with negative interest rates. The European Central Bank's money presses are working overtime to repress extra euros, which would supposedly allow us to invest out of the crisis. Would our prosperity, built over the centuries by hard work, austerity and austerity, really be so strong and so robust that it cannot be broken, that we can subsidise indefinitely, that we can leave unlimited limits open, that we can build windmills and solar parks with subsidies, that we can sponsor southern Europe and so on? I fear this is not the case. Our prosperity is not self-evident. We must continue to work to protect our prosperity in the longer term, so that we can pass on the prosperity we now know to our children and grandchildren. Our economy faces three huge threats, which I have been warning for a long time: the billions of devouring climate plans, the ongoing mass immigration and the hopeless EU. On top of that, of course, we are now faced with very far-reaching measures to combat the corona virus. Those measures leave a trail of destruction. It is these four major elements that have a profound impact on our economy. It's the four riders of the Apocalypse. I'll start with the most up-to-date: corona. To this end, the ECB has set up a fund of EUR 750 billion. This is in addition to the ECB's regular buy-back programme, which already includes 600 billion. So we are dealing with a total of 1,350 billion. This will bring about a prosperity transfer from Northern European countries to Southern European countries. It is therefore more accurate to speak not of a recovery fund but of a redistribution fund. That Rutte has put pressure on himself to agree to this, the history books will go down as a historical mistake of unprecedented proportions. In their own countries, the support programmes have obviously given SMEs some air to continue to pay staff, but this support remains very limited, because other operating costs, such as rent, continue to go on. The aid packages are focused purely on the short term. The medium and long term promises little good. When companies rely on aid packages for too long, zombie companies are created that have only the right to exist on paper. To top it all off, the government is threatening a new lockdown. Anything that has saved the support measures so far, as good and as bad as it has done, will fade away from the economic armageddon that we will see when catering, shops, businesses, neighbourhood associations and sports clubs are forced to close again massively. Then we don't have to talk about percentage, disks or income figures anymore. The ministers who would take such a decision on their conscience would not only cause economic but also social disastrous consequences. That will have a profound impact on the generations to come. The current corona measures are therefore in all respects disproportionate and insufficiently effective. Of course, we must protect vulnerable groups and avoid the collapse of care capacity. Everyone agrees on that, but there are many smarter measures to achieve that goal, measures that do much less harm to our economy and our society, measures that do not shoot with hail but target certain people and keep the rest of society open. I feel supported by thousands of doctors at home and abroad who have sounded the alarm clock and plead for a radically different policy. Tomorrow I will discuss this extensively in the Corona debate. That is why I am now moving on to the following threat to our prosperity: the absurd climate plans. This horse of the Apocalypse, this second horse, is ridden by jockey Frans Timmermans, European champion, with his stablehandler Diederik Samsom, head of Timmermans' cabinet and responsible for implementing the Green Deal. These are thousands of billions wasted on inefficient wind turbines and solar panels. They do not want to call it "costs"; they would be "investments." So your home isolation would be recouped in about 250 years. "Creative accounting," we call it. Mr. Chairman. As long as nuclear energy is excluded for ideological reasons, we are threatening to commit a historic failure of unprecedented proportions. Nuclear energy is clean and cheap and ensures that citizens and businesses no longer have to suffer under expensive and compelling climate requirements. Last week, we were pleased to see that nuclear energy is the future. This will undoubtedly last until March 17, 2021, but unfortunately experience has shown that the VVD election promises after elections are often forgotten again. Nevertheless, a glimmer of hope. But then there's mass immigration. Apart from the disastrous effects it has on culture, it is also a disaster for the economy. So the third horse from the Apocalypse. For why is there never a proper debate on the economic damage caused by mass immigration? We often hear debates about culture, but not often about the economy, which is therefore deeply disrupted. Why not make a thorough analysis of the costs and benefits of the open immigration lock that the Netherlands has become under the Rutte Cabinets over the last ten years? No less than 750,000 people have joined the Netherlands since 2010, often illegal as well. It seems extremely useful to calculate on balance what immigrants have contributed to the Dutch economy after deduction of costs such as housing, benefits, medical care and social side effects. Elsevier calculated a few years ago that the cost of immigration has already risen to 200 billion. These are about the benefits of the Dutch natural gas fields since 1970. We could have been swimming in the money if we had spent those billions better. We could have invested in care, education, defense, housing and security. What a dream country the Netherlands could have been. Unfortunately, the cartel parties have decided to change their policies. VVD, CDA and the other parties that have been in power for the past 40 years have not chosen to do so. We cannot go back, but for the coming years it is possible to change the policy substantially. In any case, we are in favour of stopping all immigration which does not concern people who are going to make a positive contribution to our national economy. We only want people to come to the Netherlands to bring something. Every year the population of our country grows with about 100,000 people. That's about the size of a city like Delft, every year. It can and must not continue like this. Unfortunately, for decades, the government parties have been deaf and blind to the question of how many people can actually live in the Netherlands without the care, housing and our social services succumb because too many people rely on it without contributing to the carrying capacity. And finally, the fourth horse: the geopolitical project to integrate all the national states in Europe into a bureaucratic monster state, the European Union. We can be blind, as the prisoners in the cave that Plato described, or we can simply admit that the economic consequences of a transfer union have been hidden from the citizens. We are completely deceived with orwellian newspeak, in which donations in a bottomless pit are praised as loans, which we would get back with interest. Amounts so large that they can't be comprehended for people to take advantage of each other. It's hundreds of billions. You can't imagine it, but it does happen and it translates into lower purchasing power, into higher taxes and into less freedom. Citizen, who is suddenly seen as full once every four years and then allowed to go to the ballot box, has had to lose the thread regularly because the complicated Brussels regulations were not presented to him in a normal and fair manner. But of course that was precisely the intention of the Europhiles bureaucrats. For what would have happened if the citizen had realized in the voting booth that his pension would disappear like snow before the sun in order to save the pensions of French and Italians? Imagine if in March 2021 the tax authorities, pardon the voters, were to wonder why we should pay for failing governments in southern Europe, or why we should pay for a large informal economy and a low tax morale like in Italy. Worse still, what would happen if we asked the citizens of the Netherlands in a referendum what they thought about this? Or does the government not entrust this freedom to its citizens? Let the Dutch decide for themselves whether they have all these billions left over for a federal Europe. That would be our approach. Because for Dutch savers and for all those who hope to claim our pensions, the artificially low interest rate kept by the ECB is in any case very bad news. The calculation rate, which was once set at 4%, has long since become unfeasible, with the result that many Dutch people have been deprived of a carefree old age. Rob Jetten wants to support Italy financially, otherwise Florentine lovers will not be able to pay for their romantic bunch of flowers from our exporters. However, every bartender knows that sooner or later it will turn out to be an unwise economic choice if you let poor customers drink on the puff without money, here compared to poor countries. I therefore strongly advise Mr Jetten not to continue his career as a pub boss who wishes to continue to donate to his guests indefinitely. Just throwing in some money from your own cash register and then getting a new round paid. Mr. Chairman. According to Prime Minister Rutte, the Netherlands is deeply socialist. However, the problem is that socialists like to spend other people's money. With the best intentions of course, but at some point these resources, earned by hard-working enterprising citizens, are unfortunately up, after which the ideological fairy tale has ended. FvD doesn't believe in such a deep-socialist country. The Netherlands must be able to earn its own money and prosperity, in freedom, without any strings attached to European rules by the EU and the ECB, without undemocratic climate agreements, without imposed immigration quotas, as a conscious and sovereign country. How is that supposed to happen? By first of all supporting SMEs and relaxing regulation. By making work pay again. By lowering taxes and simplifying fees. By not forcing farmers to cut their businesses, but by enabling these professionals to exploit economically profitable businesses and provide our food supply. By making sure that the Netherlands is back on the top of the world in terms of scientific and innovation. By stopping endless subsidy flows in the refugee industry and the climate sector, which are distributed through NGOs and the Postal Code lottery, among others. By providing development aid only if it serves a Dutch interest directly and further significantly reduces with strict controls on efficiency. By building a reliable defense and not living on the pocket of the United States. The Dutch deserve to be free citizens of a sovereign country to make their own decisions and to be able to bring the government to order and adjust through a referendum. That is our view of the financial direction of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u199	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u200	Mr. Chairman. 2020 is a disaster year. The corona crisis is affecting many Dutch people financially, not only companies and entrepreneurs, but also many workers and pensioners. These impacts are also very unfair, especially for flex workers,zzp'ers, young people with temporary contracts and pensioners, who have not been indexed for more than 12 years. With the Temporary Emergency Measure Overbridging for Employment, the NOW, the first blows have been taken. That was desperately necessary. We have also fully supported this, but the NOW is not enough and it is not fair. Something has to be done, and now it is! Mr. Chairman. The blows that millions of people are now getting into their disposable income are huge. That is why we need a marshal's plan for purchasing power now. What is needed now is a one-off generic measure which will give all workers and pensioners a strong purchasing power boost from 1 January. What this Chamber is especially good at is serving all kinds of specific target groups. The Labour Party is always there as the chickens to regulate benefits for the education sector. GroenLinks does this for sustainability clubs. The VVD is, of course, there for the multinationals, the CDA for the farmers, at least sometimes. And D66... Well, they prefer to transfer as much of our hard-earned taxpayers' money as possible to Brussels at the speed of light. But what is needed now is a general, generic and concrete measure for all Dutch. Mr. Chairman. It's possible. Hence our ready-made amendment on corona purchasing power compensation, through a simple but supereffective change in the tax system. Our plan for corona compensation has now been worked out by the Ministry of Finance. We expect to publish it today and then hear the Minister's response in the first term. What do we suggest? We do not want to increase the general tax discount for 2021 by just a lousy €82, as this grocery cabinet wants, because you cannot even pay the increase in municipal taxes and the increase in the healthcare premium. Millions of people are now financially trapped. They need extra disposable income in the short term in these heavy corona times. Therefore, through our amendment on corona compensation, we want to substantially increase the general tax discount to more than €6,400 per year, so that all workers,zzp'ers, flexworkers, SMEs and pensioners can receive an additional €180 per month immediately. €180 that they desperately need, especially the lower and middle incomes. Mr. Chairman. It's possible. The Minister of Finance now wants to borrow EUR 20 billion on the capital market at 0% interest rates, with a duration of 30 years, and then distribute this money through friends' clubs to all kinds of vague projects that nobody is really waiting for and which do not provide jobs or money in the short term either. The fund doesn't even have to make a return. An illustrious predecessor and party colleague of Minister Hoekstra, the former Finance Minister Onno Ruding, said very clearly yesterday in Het Financieele Dagblad: "Such a fund soon becomes a big grabbelton. Suddenly someone comes running in with a big bucket of money, everybody comes in. Like locusts. That's the way it is in politics." Or, to sum up the words of former Minister Ruding, what we get is "money-seeking project." With this kind of crazy money bounce we really have to stop, but what is cleverly thought up by Minister Hoekstra is to start borrowing money for a long time, for example 30 years, at 0%. That money will be worth much less in 30 years' time and can in the meantime be used to reinvigorate the growth of our economy. So we can compensate for the massive demand loss caused by corona. For example, public debt, which is at a relatively low level, is also contained, by increasing GDP growth and thus maintaining its balance. Coen Teulings, former director of the Central Planning Bureau, has also recently indicated that at least EUR 15 billion per year is available for relief. I pointed this out to the Prime Minister two weeks ago. Covering for this corona purchasing power compensation we find by borrowing the money at 0% and not in the grabbelton of the friends of Wopke and Wiebes to stop, but where it belongs: in the wallet of the Dutch. For example, the Dutch also benefit a little from the far too generous policy of the European Central Bank, which has been printing thousands of billions of money for years. It is also an effective way of protecting us somewhat from the future euro crisis. The reduction of public debt as a madman, as the Rutte/Asscher cabinet did, is not wise in the euro system. Other countries, especially in southern Europe, do not either. The use of the Wopke-Wiebes fund is also completely outsourced to a group of political friends, such as Jeroen Dijsselbloem, and to friendly officials. Madness. This Parliament is so completely out of line. It is with the Wopke-Wiebes Fund, just like with the crazy climate tables of Minister Wiebes, which bring our economy to the brink of the abyss, which is now at a very late stage, that the criticism finally bursts. Minister Ollongren is already starting to make retreating movements with building-related funding, because the Climate Agreement is not proving to be feasible. At the climate tables everyone was sitting at the table, except for the taxpayer who can cough up the bill. It is not transparent and not democratic, because it is all decided in back rooms, outside the eyes of the electorate. Two weeks ago, I filed a motion for a government that is effective, fair and efficient. The motion was voted down. In the election programmes, the words "open, honest and transparent" are all over you, but when it comes to it, people vote against it. This room is full of grappers: do as I say, but I don't do it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u201	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u202	Mr. Chairman. The amendment on corona compensation has many advantages. It is the first step towards a much-needed simplification of the tax system. It is also a first step towards much less implementation costs. We also want to do something about the many Dutch in debt. If you fly your car out of the bend on the highway and end up in the ditch, you call emergency services. But this minister isn't. He doesn't call 911, but with a group of planners who are going to come up with a new path with various friendly companies. That won't be necessary. We need something now, now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u203	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u204	The follow-up to this debate, the answers on behalf of the cabinet, will take place on Thursday at 10.15 a.m. For now, I would like to thank the directors, the MPs and the people who have followed this debate in one way or another, the staff and the messengers. I'm closing the meeting.
