ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u1	I welcome the Minister for the Environment and Living in our midst. The next item is a VAO Environment, following a general consultation held on 20 February last. This plenary continuation has been requested by Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals. I'll give her the floor first. Two minutes' speaking time for you and also for the other Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we had a shocking hearing on the collapse of granules in Over de Maas. As far as we are concerned, the illegal landfill must end as soon as possible. That is why the SP and GroenLinks colleagues have already prepared a number of motions on this subject, I have seen. He will therefore wholeheartedly support the Party for Animals. So we are not making any motions about it ourselves at the moment. But it's a good thing they're gonna be here soon, if it's okay. We do have two other subjects, which I will present to the Chamber in a form of motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rotterdam Court ruled on 19 December 2019 that the manager of artificial grass fields in Enschede did not comply with Article 13 of the Soil Protection Act (Wbb);]] [[Whereas no manager of artificial turf fields with rubber granulate is likely to comply;]] [[noting that Article 13 requires all persons to take all measures that can reasonably be required to prevent pollution;]] [[noting that the spread of rubber granulate to the environment cannot be prevented, including with draining mats and edgeboards;]] [[considers that operators can reasonably be required to phase out rubber granulate in order to prevent pollution of the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to phase out the use of rubber granulate in artificial turf fields and to support sports clubs in moving to alternatives that have no negative impact on the environment, such as natural lawns or fields with harmless infill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-344]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u3	Then move on to the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Clean Air Agreement contains little or no concrete measures to combat the health damage and nuisance caused by fire;]] [[noting that 11 000 people die prematurely each year due to poor air quality and forest fires causing substantial health damage;]] [[noting that RIVM is issuing a fire alarm in weather conditions in which firewood causes even more health damage;]] [[calls on the Government to impose a ban on combustion during a combustion plant and also to ensure that it is maintained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-345]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Van Esch said, yesterday's hearing on the dumping of granules in the lakes at Over de Maas was quite shocking, astonishing. The information we have received there requires me, but I also hope the Chamber will say that much more research needs to be done. Much is not right, such as the product certificate and the application of the Soil Quality Decision. There are very worrying substances in granules. That's why I have a motion to stop the dumping of granules at least temporarily. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the dumping of granules in the area Over the Meuse has increased enormously in a very short time from 100,000 tonnes to 750,000 tonnes;]] [[noting that granules contain the polyacrylamide flocculant and that they may be carcinogenic;]] [[Whereas potential risks of polyacrylamides to health and the environment have not been investigated;]] [[Whereas several experts consider that granules should not be considered as "ground" and should therefore not be used for peeing;]] [[Whereas no ecological studies have been carried out on the effects of the dumping of granules in deep lakes;]] [[Whereas local authorities, citizens' collectives and local residents have indicated that they do not feel heard;]] [[calls on the government to temporarily stop the dumping of granules at Over de Maas and other active projects in order to carry out thorough research into the status of granules and the possible effects of polyacrylicamides on health and the environment, while ensuring that experts and residents are heard and have a say,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kröger, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-346]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u5	One short question, Mr President. Last Monday, together with a number of parties and municipalities, the Minister signed the cooperation agreement on asbestos roofs. But we are told by various parties that the criteria for participating in this fund are still unclear. What do municipalities, provinces and participating parties have to invest themselves in order to participate? And is it true that if a municipality has not signed, the inhabitants of that municipality will not be able to participate in that asbestos fund either? I would like a more detailed explanation from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u6	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u7	Mr. Chairman. Monday, yesterday, we had a hearing/round table on the granulate dump. I think that, in fact, all my fellow Members saw that something went terribly wrong here. I think we've become aware that there's really a system error in this. I am glad that we are also going to have a plenary debate on this. It is a system error which, without environmental research, has been confirmed without ecological research, granules and 75,000 kilos of a chemical. This leads to a very worrying substance in the event of degradation. It's not being measured at the moment. And all this has been tolerated for years with a wrong certificate. I think we should be very concerned about this, including as a room. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a great deal of social unrest about the dumping of granules with the chemical application flocculant in the project Over de Maas;]] [[Whereas the City Council of West Maas and Waal also called for a stop to the granulate landfill;]] [[noting that in its letter of 5 March, the Minister indicated that additional research was being carried out into the environmental quality of granules;]] [[Calls on the Government to maintain new reports for the use of granules in urine softening until further studies on the environmental quality of granules have been carried out;]] [[invites the Government to explore whether the accreditation of GIB for BRL 9321 can be suspended, so that the current application of granules with flocculant in the project Over de Maas is stopped immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Moorlag and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u8	Then I have another question on another subject that has been addressed in the AO Environment. That's the Clean Air Agreement. I would actually ask the Minister to outline in response to this question how we are going to ensure that more municipalities join the Clean Air Agreement. What are the obstacles? What does she need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u9	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. The next speaker is Mr von Martels from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From granules we switch to granules, because we also talked about rubber granulate and the duty of care that sports clubs have. The Minister replied satisfactorily to the CDA's written questions, but a new question has arisen. I would therefore like to table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that court cases are brought against sports clubs in order to force the sports clubs to comply with the duty of care and Article 13 of the Law on Soil Protection (Wbb) in the management of their artificial grass fields;]] [[Whereas the Minister has now made clear how clubs must comply with the duty of care and Article 13 Wbb in artificial turf fields with rubber granulate;]] [[calls on the Government also to make clear through an overview of other types of artificial turf fields how sports clubs must comply with the duty of care and Article 13 Wbb, such as artificial turf fields with cork, TPE, EPDM, coconut fibres and olive seed granulate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-348]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u11	So how does the Minister deal with the other infill? Shall I continue with the second motion, Mr. Chairman? It's about another subject, but I see someone standing by the interrupting microphone. That's a good friend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u12	That's right. Mr Van Aalst has signed up for the next VAO. I give him the opportunity to ask a short question now, even though he should actually register for zero minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u13	Yes, Mr. Chairman, perhaps I should have done that. I've been to the AO, by the way, but I didn't have any motions today. However, I have a practical question for Mr von Martels of the CDA, because you are asking a lot of questions here. I'm also a sports spokesperson, just like you. That is also what this discussion regularly comes by. How do you see that, with all those artificial turf fields in all those football clubs, which are generally not so broad financially? We'd like to keep everyone in the gym. How does Mr von Martels see it that all these clubs should re-sprinkle this kind of artificial turf?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u14	I think Mr Van Aalst misunderstood my motion. I have also submitted written questions on this subject. I'm just trying to keep clubs from getting in trouble because they don't know what they're up to. There was a lack of clarity about the rubber granulate. I think the municipality of Enschede has received a fine of €10,000, albeit conditionally. I would like to know how, in addition to rubber granulate, we deal with the other infill regarding the duty of care that clubs have in their sports fields. My second topic is the asbestos fund. I would like to table a motion on the situation that has arisen with regard to the asbestos fund, which runs until 2028. Insurance companies only go until 2025. Hopefully, the Minister will be able to remove the uncertainty that still exists on this issue. I have another question for the Minister about the asbestos fund. A number of parties have now signed, but not many parties, such as LTO, Aedes, VNG and Association Eigen Huis. How does the Minister deal with these parties to ensure that the asbestos fund is a success after all? The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the asbestos fund was set up to encourage homeowners to have asbestos removed from their roof;]] [[whereas homeowners can use the asbestos fund until 2028, while insurers often provide cover until 2025;]] [[calls on the government to table with insurers to see if insurers are willing to participate in the declaration of cooperation and to include the insurability of the disposal approach in order to cover up to 2028 instead of 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels and Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-349]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation on the environment, our group did say the necessary things about the Clean Air Agreement, i.e. the SLA. In particular, we discussed the situation of companies currently dealing with the PAS but also with PFAs. Those companies feel that their bucket is now full of everything they see coming by, what they have to meet and what they run into, not to mention everything that can still come at them. As I have done in general consultation, I would like to point out that the bucket is really very full now and that the Minister's ambitions may need to be timed, as it is called. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas construction companies, dredging companies and so on are already facing considerable problems due to the problems of pfas and nitrogen;]] [[Whereas the Clean Air Agreement may provide for stricter requirements for these companies;]] [[Whereas these companies are threatened by the financial consequences of their survival;]] [[calls on the government to have an impact assessment carried out with any changes in the laws and regulations of the Clean Air Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ziengs and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-350]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u16	This is a new proposal made by Mr Ziengs: an impact assessment. I wonder what exactly the impact Mr Ziengs wants to monitor. Does he think, for example, of all the health benefits that we achieve and all the benefits in the climate, i.e. all the benefits of the measures? What is Mr Ziengs thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u17	An impact assessment is intended in particular to assess the impact of legislation and the like. These can be all kinds of effects, but in general, an impact assessment is about the direct impact it has on companies, on employment and on investments that may not be made. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u18	I assume that the purpose of this impact assessment is to balance it with all the social benefits that a measure has. How am I supposed to imagine that? We're getting an impact assessment. What are we gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u19	It will probably be clear to Mrs Kröger, also in view of my input in the general consultation, that the ambitions of this minister go beyond the European standards we have set together. In any case, her ambition gives more direction to higher standards. That is a good goal in itself. That could mean that at the moment, when we find that the companies already have a huge bone in the PAS, the pfas et cetera, may also need to be timed. If the effect is such that companies fall down, companies have to turn in jobs, etc., then perhaps it would be wise to go a little less hard towards these ambitions.......................................................................................................................................................................................... That's the point, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u20	I thought Mr Ziengs was already working on the next VAO on pfas. I thought, "Did I miss something?" It's a good thing he's filing a motion on an impact assessment. Mr Ziesgs himself has already indicated that it has a major impact on all those entrepreneurs. He'd like to do an assessment on that. That seems like a good plan in itself. But I think the conclusion is pretty clear. That is just what Mr Ziengs said: that the entrepreneurs are already talking about the water, that the bucket is full. That said, what will the VVD do about it? I mean, that pfas didn't just happen. All this has happened thanks to this cabinet. Is the VVD prepared to meet these entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u21	I wonder whether the question is now focused on pfas or whether it is about the Clean Air Agreement, which I was referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u22	Let me get this straight. Mr Ziesgs just indicated that he wanted to do an impact assessment, because he noticed that it had a lot of consequences for the entrepreneurs and that the bucket was full because of the nitrogen measures and the pfas. He wants to demonstrate that with an impact assessment. My follow-up question is: if we find that these companies are in trouble, is the VVD prepared to compensate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u23	I believe that the VVD has made a clear statement on the dossiers mentioned by Mr Van Aalst, the dossiers relating to the PAS and the PFAs, as regards solutions that have been put forward. I mention, among other things, the SMEM, but it will probably also be on the agenda for the next debate. Then I think that we have sought a direction in which to come up with solutions, and also higher values and so on. But then I come to another debate that we are about to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u24	Yeah, we're gonna feed it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u25	So I'm just gonna stay away from that for a little while. But as far as the Clean Air Agreement is concerned, we have, strictly speaking, said: look now, with the ambitions that the Minister now shows, which are higher than the European standards that we have talked to each other, what effect that has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u26	Clear. That's what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u27	I had 34 seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u28	And you still want to use that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u29	Since I have long answered the questions raised by interrupting, I will give you those 34 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u30	Great. I give the floor to the last speaker from the Chamber. That is Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u31	Mr. Chairman. I also attended the round table yesterday about the flooding of the lake in the municipality of West Maas and Waal. That has given a lot of commotion to residents and to the municipal board. There are many questions about the quality of the decision, but also about its implementation. That's harmful to everyone. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. Besides, I can see my time isn't running out. Maybe I'm using Mr Zieng's 34 seconds now. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas reasonable doubts have been raised as to whether the decision to designate granules as soil is in conformity with the rules;]] [[Whereas the view has emerged that the decision on the designation of granules as soil has not been carefully established;]] [[Whereas there has been great concern and unrest and resistance among residents and the municipality of West Maas and Waal about the erosion of the sand mining lake Over the Meuse;]] [[calls on the Government to have an authoritative, independent and expert person, who also enjoys the confidence of the municipal administration of West Maas and Waal, carry out research into the quality of the decision and the implementation of the decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-351]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u32	Mr. Chairman. I think it is important that the doubts that exist, the genuinely reasonable doubts, be removed. It's two-and-a-half. Either the decision is right and it has been carefully made. Well, then, let's get that straight. Let that be established by an independent, authoritative expert. Either that is not the case and we must learn from it. I also believe that the Ministry and those involved would benefit from an expert, independent and authoritative view of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u33	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes, after which the Minister will give her appreciation of the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u34	The next item is the VAO Environment. I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living for her appreciation of the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In her motion, Mrs Van Esch asks for item No. 344 to prohibit or phase out rubber granulate. She does so on the basis of a judge's ruling, but that ruling concerned one specific sports club and cannot be generalised. Public phasing out of use is not necessary from the point of view of public health and the environment and could have a major impact on sports clubs and municipalities. However, the development of non-infill fields is encouraged by VWS with innovation grants. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u36	Do I hear the Minister seriously say that the phasing out of rubber granulate would not be necessary, because it would not cause damage to the environment and health? It seems to me that the opposite has been proven, so I am curious. You went very fast. You said: we do not need to phase out, because rubber granulate is not harmful to the environment and health. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u37	No, Mr. Chairman. Sport clubs applying rubber granulate to sports fields should take a number of precautions to prevent any effects on human health and the environment. Many studies have also been carried out to see whether the external distribution of rubber pellets would lead to unacceptable consequences. That didn't turn out to be true. Mrs Van Esch refers to a court ruling, which she generalises to all sports clubs. I have just checked it out and it cannot be said on the basis of that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u38	Mrs. Van Esch, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u39	That is not possible, but Article 13 simply says that you need to take precautions to prevent rubber granulate from getting into the environment. In my opinion, we all know that ramps and sideboards do not do so at all to a sufficient extent. In my view, we are absolutely not complying with Article 13 in this respect and are going to cause more courts to make the same ruling. As far as we are concerned, it is extremely unfortunate that as a state government we are not going to promote phasing it out. We are not talking about banning rubber granulate, we are not saying that at all. Phase out is the specific call. I insist that it is a real shame for the national government to fail in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u40	When we talk about promoting, we can find each other. Therefore, the development of non-infill fields is encouraged by VWS, also with an innovation subsidy. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 345, by Mrs Van Esch, calls for a ban on burning at a heating plant. I have taken a number of measures in the area of wood-burning. I think such a ban is a step too far now. It's also difficult to enforce. The municipality can of course do a number of things. First of all, giving this information is an important step. So I'm deceiving the motion. Then there is the motion for a resolution, Laçin c.s. in piece No. 346. A number of motions have been tabled on granules. As you said yourself, a further plenary debate is planned on this subject. I also see that social unrest has arisen. In the past week, I've spoken to the council alderman twice. All the research I'm having on the material and its application doesn't prove anything wrong. Despite that, I can see that there is great unrest. As I also informed you in the letter, I announced that I want a review of the investigations that are taking place. I think it was Mr Moorlag who said that it is one of two: either there is nothing going on, or there is something going on. But before you intervene as a government in a process, you must have a clear basis for that. That's why I agreed with the alderman to have that review done. I should also like to return to Mr Moorlag's motion in a moment to the question of which aspects we can look at. I will come back to that in the Chamber. The motion Laçin c.s. in piece No. 346 says stop that temporarily. I have no basis for that now, and that is why I must discourage this motion. But given the social unrest there is, I want a review and I have already informed you of that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u41	The motion is dissuaded. Mr Laçin wants to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u42	I am very surprised that the Minister here says that everything has gone according to the rules and that everything is right. We heard what was not right yesterday in a two-and-a-half-hour hearing alone, a round table. The product certificate is incorrect, the soil quality decision has been incorrectly applied and should not be applied at all and no research has been carried out into a very worrying substance that is in granules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u43	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u44	In view of the appeal also from the alderman who may have spoken to the Minister, I would therefore like to ask you this question: stop plotting; stop dumping granules into this project until everything is clear and clear. That is also Mr Moorlag's appeal. It really doesn't matter to continue dumping granules now and at the same time doing all kinds of research, because those people are now worried. They want it to stop now. They want us to investigate everything carefully. And if it's true, then we can move on. But it doesn't add up right now, and then we really can't keep dumping. I therefore call on the Minister and, above all, on the House to support this motion, so that all those concerned there feel supported by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u45	Yeah, but that's why you filed that motion, isn't it? In this term of the Minister, I try to make it a short question, because I do not know what the Minister is going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u46	Mr Laçin is concerned and many people are concerned. That's right. There's this unrest. I'm announcing a review that looks at all these points once again. Then I think we should be careful to say: I already know the conclusion. That is what Mr Laçin says: I already know the conclusion; it is not true. I think we should show that we take the unrest there very seriously. At the same time, I am also pleased that there are investigations that state that there is nothing going on. We're gonna have that checked again by an independent party that doesn't have anything to do with this company. That's exactly what I agreed with the alderman. It will also be involved in the research design. I will also be happy to inform your Chamber about this. But I can't say in advance, as you do, that it's all wrong if everything's okay. We'll have that review done, because we want to be sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u47	Mr. Laçin, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u48	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. It is not Mr Laçin who says it is not true. There were all kinds of experts yesterday who said the same thing, namely that granules are not grounds, that the product certificate is incorrect and that the soil quality decision has been incorrectly applied. Those are all words from experts, from experts. On that basis, I suggest with the alderman that this should stop until everything is clear. So again, I really want the Minister to consider this and look for ways to stop the landfill of granules at least temporarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u49	At least what I'm looking for is answers to all those questions that are there. Indeed, a number of questions were raised yesterday. I believe that we must ensure that there are good answers to all these questions. So I'm definitely gonna do that. On all the points raised by Mr Laçin, we will certainly do so. That gives me in advance, before I have those answers, no reason to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u50	I see that Mrs Kröger, as co-sponsor, has a short question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u51	I anticipate the fact that the Minister is probably going to dissuade my motion, but I'm just waiting for the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u52	The motion in part No. 347 is not recommended, yes indeed... So I'm going to have the municipality and the county do some additional research. The validity of the accreditation is also assessed by the ILT. RWS assesses the reports on the basis of the Bbk. If everything is met, I have no way to stop a report. I do think there should be good answers. Once again, the points have just been raised by Mr Laçin. So we're gonna answer all those questions in a good way. Many written questions have also been tabled. We must ensure that there is a clear answer to all these points. I'll share that with the Room. There's trouble. We need to show what the answer to all these questions is. If there are points that do not make sense, then we must do something about it. That's how I'm in it, but if all the reports I've got so far say "it's right," I can't say to you in advance: it's not right. Or, even though it's true, we're still shutting it down. But I take the social unrest very seriously, and I think that all these issues need to be answered clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u53	That means that the motion in part No. 347 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u54	What I find difficult about this is that we are in a situation where 500 000 tonnes are going to be dumped in a puddle. Another 250,000 tons just added. It's 75,000 kilos of flocculant. In none of the letters or information we have requested, at any time, the Minister has been able to demonstrate that the certificate BRL 9321 would be valid for granules. In no way. We've had a private technical briefing, so we can't say too much about that. But the conclusion I drew from that briefing was: there was a toleration. If that is the situation we are dealing with, then I do not understand why the Minister is not taking this motion with both hands. After all, this motion gives her the opportunity to say: I am seriously going to explore whether I can suspend this accreditation. There's been some kind of toleration. The Minister has no evidence that the certificate applies to granules. If she had that evidence, she would have given it to ZEMBLA or put it in the letter of office. Neither one of them did. So we're in a tolerance structure. Up to 75,000 tons of a chemical is deposited in a lake and there is an incredible amount of unrest about it. This minister can take a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u55	Mrs Kröger speaks of a tolerant construction. That's one of the questions we need to answer. She says she can't prove it's true. I can't say I have proof that I can't. So that's actually exactly what this is about. Has it been properly dealt with in this way or not? I think it is very important that there should be an answer to all these questions, but let us then take the process seriously in the sense that, if we are answering those questions, we should not anticipate it. The question of whether there is a tolerance structure is also real? This is one of the questions we need to answer. In that plenary debate, which you yourself requested, rightly, we must ensure that we have an answer on these points. If, in the meantime, something gives me a different view, I shall, of course, come back to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u56	Mrs Kröger, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u57	I ask myself the following question with this answer. At the time when you, through the President-in-Office of the Council, allow the Minister to deposit an extra 250 000 tonnes, when you cannot actually provide any evidence that the 250 000 tonnes have a valid certificate, should we not intervene? The Minister can do that, and that's why I'm tabling this motion. She also knows that this is the legal way to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u58	Mrs Kröger always assumes that there is a basis to stop it. If there were, this might be a way. However, on the basis of the studies I have also shared with you, I have also been discussed flocculantly in one of those studies, and not the basis for doing so. Mrs Kröger is suggesting it is. Where all the information that came up in the technical briefing yesterday raised questions, I think we should take a serious look at that. I'm gonna do that seriously. I'm just not seriously getting ahead of it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u59	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u60	Mrs Kröger, we have three debates this evening. This debate has taken place. I get the impression that this is going to be discussed further in the near future. Mr Van Aalst, who is not a co-author of this motion, has also come forward. Very briefly, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u61	Can the Minister submit the certificate, the valid certificate on the basis of which the deposit of 250 000 tonnes of granules is authorised by this Minister, to our Chamber as a matter of urgency? If she can't, that means it's not legal and can therefore be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u62	The question raised by Mrs Kröger, whether appropriate use has been made of the certification system, is one of the questions I will answer. We will answer all the questions asked as a matter of urgency, because all these questions obviously need to be answered properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u63	Thank you. Mr. Van Aalst for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u64	This is exactly the dilemma the PVV is struggling with. On the one hand, licences have just been issued. There are companies that have a permit and just do their job. The moment we shut it down, they're gonna say: what are we gonna do; do we have to file a claim for damages? On the other hand, I have seen the unrest caused by all the new data. So I also have this dilemma, but would it not be wiser to stop it temporarily and schedule a debate next week so that we can have clarity? Because that's what everybody's waiting for and it's just taking way too long. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u65	It's all developing very quickly. Yesterday was that debate, and now these questions are being raised. Or: yesterday was that closed technical briefing, now there is a question raised at this VAO which I think should indeed be answered quickly. I can imagine that we will see if we can clarify the question about that certificate with some priority. Because apparently one of the most perplexing questions that you have had from the technical briefing I did not come up with at the meeting and the round table: how about that? Has there been any toleration, yes or no? Let us make sure that we answer this question quickly. There will indeed be a plenary debate and that this question will be clarified quickly, because you do not want to stop anything for nothing either. If there's no ground for that, then I don't have anything to shut it down on. But I can imagine the question of whether this is the right certificate is pregnant. I will make every effort to answer them as soon as possible. Then I'll go to the motion-Von Martels on piece number. 348. It asks the government to clarify how and when other infills can actually be used, how you properly comply with the duty of care. If I may read it in such a way that I call on the VSG and trade associations to remind municipalities, at the request of the Chamber, of the information that has been put in place for this purpose, then I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. So there's information about it. We need to make sure that it is well available to the municipalities, so that they know what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u66	I note that the petitioner is nodding in agreement. The motion has judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u67	The motion in part No. 349 calls on insurance companies to table insurance related to asbestos and the fund. I would like to work with all those who support the approach. Insurance companies are also an important party. This is in line with the approach set out in the declaration of cooperation. So I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u68	The motion in part No. 349 has judgment in Chamber. From Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u69	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. I understand somewhat the motion tabled by Mr von Martels. On the other hand, I think: well, insurability... If I understand correctly, there is currently no ban on asbestos roofs, so I see no reason why the insurer should say: you are uninsurable. I wonder if the motion does not call for something that is not currently being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u70	It is up to the insurer himself to decide what he wants to insure or not. In doing so, the insurer also makes an assessment of the risks. Even without an asbestos roof ban, the roofs are ageing and almost all roofs are 30 years or older. This means that there may be reason for insurers to say, even without an asbestos roof ban, that this is too much risk for me; I do not guarantee this anymore. Where the ban on asbestos roofs was first in 2024 we now want to encourage as many people as possible to clean their roofs at least before 2028, precisely from the point of view of risks. That is why I think it is a point to ask the insurers whether they would be prepared, as a kind of extra incentive to use that scheme and to clean up the roof as soon as possible, despite the expiry of the ban, to extend that insurance period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u71	I have a brief question: can it simply be that there is ignorance among insurers about the fact that there is no more ban on asbestos roofs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u72	You should never rule out anything, but it does not seem to me to have escaped the media that the ban on asbestos roofs has been abolished as such and that we are now working with a fund. But I'll leave the motion's judgment to point no. 349 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u73	The motion in part No. 349 is Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u74	I'll come to the motion in part No. 350. In consultation with the sector, I will further elaborate the SLA measures. This means that we are further implementing it together, but sometimes we also indicate how something develops over time. A good example is the construction equipment. Together with the construction sector, a roadmap will be drawn up to see how quickly we expect the equipment to become available, which can also be requested. Then it is important to ask for it, because then you can earn back such an investment. So they're both important, but they need to get together at the right pace. We're definitely gonna do that. In the case of new legislation and regulations, we also present costs and benefits in advance. I think I'll serve you both at your request. If I can read the motion like that, I'll give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u75	I'll take a look at the petitioner. He nods in agreement, so that's the case. The motion in part No. 350 is Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u76	Ms Kröger asked how we are going to ensure that more municipalities can participate in the SLA. We're getting that actively into all the conversations. I expect more municipalities and provinces to join in the coming year. That is why we inform all municipalities about and involve them in the progress and results of the Clean Air Agreement. I would, of course, like to convey the active appeal of the Chamber to the municipalities to consider this. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Laçin mentioned the fund: what is needed? Provinces and municipalities wishing to make use of that fund will fill that in together. The Empire contributes, of course. It's used as a first loss. The Empire takes the greatest risk. The intention is to grant loans from this fund until 2028 in order to maximise the incentive for voluntary reorganisation. After the establishment of the Fund, the parties still have 18 months to sign in and obtain funding. Preparations for the private fund are in full swing. We will make sure that we keep the Chamber informed of some of the detailed questions put by Mr Laçin and how exactly this will be worked out. He asked very specifically: what exactly do municipalities have to do to be able to participate? Can you use that fund as a resident if your community hasn't signed it? When it's all worked out, we'll answer all those questions right away. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Von Martels asked at this point how we deal with parties that have not yet signed. We have already indicated that we will continue to talk to these parties as well. A section for entrepreneurs is still being looked at, so to speak. We will continue to discuss this voluntary approach with all these parties. Now that the ban has disappeared, we will have to do it in a different way. That will be less rapid, but we will remain with all parties who want to see, of course, how, given the situation, we keep the maximum speed in it. Then the motion to part No. Mr Moorlag, Mr Moorlag, Mr Moorlag, Mr Moorlag, Mr Moorlag, Mr Moorlag, Mr Moorlag, Mr Moorlag, Mr Moorlag, Mr It's consistent with the discussion we just had. I think it is very important that all the questions are answered properly. We're gonna have an independent agency do that review. I'm talking about an agency that wasn't involved in the company and that wasn't involved in this before. Together with the alderman, we're preparing that. I sat down with the alderman last Monday to see how we set it up. Mr Moorlag is actually saying that there are also a number of procedural points that should be looked at carefully. But I think that also applies to a good description of who has had what role in this process. Provinces and municipalities have also played a role in this at some point. What exactly was agreed then? What are the lessons learned from it when you look back on that now? I'll see with the alderman how we can give that trial a place. I would ask Mr Moorlag to hold the motion until I come to the Chamber with a letter on how we see that investigation in front of us. Then he can determine whether that satisfies what he and the co-signatories submit in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u77	If I were the minister, I'd embrace this motion. In fact, you cannot burden an office with the question of whether the decision has been carefully questioned, even if the integrity has been called into question. You can't saddle a desk with that. That really must be an authoritative, independent and competent person, so that if there is an outcome, there is no doubt and there is a chance of acceptance. That's how much political heat it's got on it now. What the Minister says only partly meets the motion, so my request to the Minister is to dress it as stated in the operative part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u78	But then again I run the risk that it will be a separate investigation, which will remain unclear for a long time. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could provide clarity quickly. Again, I'm not ruling out that we're gonna do it this way. But, of course, I see this motion for the first time. I am in consultation with the alderman about how we can properly dress up the review, so that we do precisely that lack of clarity. Let me not anticipate whether there are any integrity issues, as Mr Moorlag suggests here. I think it's a lot to say in advance. I'm in agreement with the alderman. I think it is important that it should be sufficient in the context of the unrest that exists, especially among those living around it. In fact, there is the greatest unrest among them. Just give me a minute to come up with a proposal with the alderman. We'll come to the room with that, too. Then you can assess whether it is sufficient for you and for the questions that live in the Chamber. So I request that the motion be held until the letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u79	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u80	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. If the Minister rejects this motion, I think I should look in the parliamentary toolbox together with my colleagues. I'd think that was a real shame. This really offers the opportunity to remove the doubt and to map in a good, careful and proper way how the process has gone and what the quality of the decision is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u81	I do not think Mr Moorlag and I disagree at all. I also think it is important that the process should also remove ambiguity. I would just like to say to Mr Moorlag that I am already talking and that I would like to be careful not to go through an ongoing discussion with the specific text of the motion. That is why I ask Mr Moorlag very kindly to see if he will hold this motion until I come forward with a letter. If he says this isn't good enough, then there's always another opportunity... I would rather not dissuade the motion at this time, but I would not find it carefully in the process if I gave this motion now judgment Chamber while I am still in that process. However, I share Mr Moorlag's point that that process must also provide clarity and comfort for people that their interests have been handled carefully. We'll share that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u82	I have to say that Mr Moorlag does not accept your suggestion. Then the Chamber would like to know what your appreciation of the motion is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u83	I'm talking to a number of parties. I suggest I come back with a verdict on this motion. I see this motion now, I have conversations and I am happy to be able to include it in it. I'll tell you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u84	The Minister will return to that in writing before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u85	I have a very practical question. You indicated that you would come with a letter and would like to answer the questions as a matter of urgency. I just think it is important to have the urgency and have those answers before Tuesday, before we vote on the motions before us. We have a number of motions here which do call for urgency, and also urgently call for a halt. I would like to call on you to send the information to the Chamber for Tuesday because we really need it for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u86	I think it is very important that the questions are answered carefully. I understand Mrs Van Esch's question. If I manage to be careful for that moment, I will. I cannot guarantee that, but I do understand the urgency, not only because of the votes, but also because of the questions people have. It is precisely because of these questions that it is important that we be careful in the research we do. Some questions may therefore already be answered and others may not yet be answered. But I hear the question. I don't only hear it from the Chamber. I also hear the call from the municipalities for clarity as soon as possible for all the people who live there. So I'll do my best, but I can't promise anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u87	It seems to me that the current deposit takes place on the basis of a valid certificate. The Minister must have that certificate with the explanation that it's granulate, ready, right? Because at the moment, 250,000 tonnes of granules are allowed. Seems to me this is gonna be in the Chamber by Tuesday, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u88	I have just indicated to Mrs Kröger that I will indeed do my best to answer the question about the certificate as a matter of urgency. But I don't know if the simplicity she's sketching matches how I'm gonna find it when I look at this. But I certainly share the request for urgency in this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u89	And Mr Laçin's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u90	Yes. I think that enough has been exchanged for the time being. I had another question about the motion in part No. Mr Ziengs. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ziengs on his excellent report. In that motion, he asked for an impact assessment, but I did not get a clear answer as to whether the Minister read the motion in such a way that she also included the benefits of the health gain in the impact assessment. That is extremely important for my consideration of voting for or against that motion. Could the Minister explain this very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u91	I have just said to Mr Ziengs that we will identify both costs and benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u92	Health gains?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u93	Yeah, regular, so how we always deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u94	This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-30.u95	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. We'll get another letter from the minister. I suggest we get on with it.
