ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u1	A warm welcome to the Minister, to this VAO report of the Public Prosecutor's Commission, the Commission-Fokkens. First of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Grothuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again a while ago, in December, we talked about the report of the Foks Commission and the problems at the Public Prosecutor's Office. After reading the Minister's letter, I am satisfied with the step he is taking to ask the Attorney General at the Supreme Court to step up his role in overseeing the prosecution. I am curious, and that will be my first question, what exactly is the relationship between the pg and the inspection going to be? I read that the pg can sometimes order the inspection to do further research on something. But what exactly does that relationship look like? Because the inspection works for the minister, doesn't it? I would like an explanation on that point. Furthermore, I think it is inevitable that the pg should get some staff. I don't think there's a battery of staff there that can assist the pg. And if you weigh up the task package, it's obvious that you're doing something about it. I therefore expect the Minister to make a real commitment on this point. Another question concerns the role of the Minister himself. I don't really read much about that in the letter. I mean, we're not here yet, at the D.A.'s office. This is a nice step, but of course there are still the necessary problems, also in naming top functions. What role does the Minister see for himself? I would also like an explanation of that. Another point, Mr President, but connected with it, is cybercrime. That is a priority for the cabinet, but as far as I am concerned it was a rather vague passage in the letter we received. Actually, I just want to know how much money the D.A. is getting for that cybercrime job. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that tackling cybercrime is a priority of this Cabinet;]] [[Whereas if the police investigate more cases, this will lead to more work for the prosecution;]] [[Considering that not all the efforts of the Public Prosecutor are translated into criminal matters, for example because other interventions are being used;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to provide the Chamber with a detailed understanding of the planned and effective use of the additional funds for the criminal justice chain by 1 April 2020, specifying how much money has gone to the Public Prosecutor and how much of them is available to combat cybercrime;]] [[further requests the Cabinet to provide the Chamber with an insight into whether and to what extent additional efforts by the Public Prosecutor that do not translate into additional criminal matters will be taken into account in the PMJ model before 1 April 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-200]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was quite the debate. My colleague Markuszower has made it clear in no uncertain terms what culture is like in the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We have spoken about this in a certain way on several occasions, and as long as it does not change, that will of course not be any less. That's why I have one motion. That should work in the 1 minute and 30 seconds that remain behind the speaker seat today, so there it goes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, among other things, the Poch and Wilders cases show that nothing has changed about the lying mafia culture within the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas under this Public Prosecutor's Office, on the one hand, innocent Dutch people should be afraid of improper political persecutions and convictions and, on the other hand, dangerous perpetrators such as Vincent Leenders should be released;]] [[calls on the Government to stop encouraging cover-up in the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[calls on the Government to bring the broom through the Public Prosecutor's Office and to dismiss unfair, unintelligent prosecutors and staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Graaf and Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-201]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u4	No. I would like to make a point about this, which is two-fold. Firstly, there is talk of a mafia culture. There is a mixture of the underworld and the upperworld. I have recently made a working visit with a number of other members of the Chamber and then had me explained in detail by the mayor of Palermo, who has fought an incredible battle against the mafia, which is precisely what the mafia means. There is now talk of a mafia culture here. Then I think, "Why mafia culture?" What kind of underworld figure is on the ministry or the D.A.'s office? I don't know them. There are some things that can be improved, but the existence of a mafia culture is not something you can harden. That's why I don't support that. We are not talking about the dismissal of civil servants or anyone else; that is what the Minister is about. We're in business with the minister. For this reason, the VVD does not support the submission of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u5	My impression is that the rest of the Members present do support the submission, so we are not going to make any further points about this, because there is sufficient support for the tabling of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u6	I've seen plenty of hands go up, too. I think that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u7	Yeah, that's what I'm saying, Mr. De Graaf. That's the case. Mrs. Buitenweg, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u8	It's hard for me. In recent years, a lot of motions have been tabled, quite frankly. I've said every time: okay, the motion may be tabled; then we'll vote on it and I'll vote against it, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u9	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u10	... this I find compared to all the other shit we've had from time to time, honestly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u11	A mild motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u12	But I certainly do not want to suggest that I find her acceptable, as a result of Mr Van Wijngaarden's remarks, as if GroenLinks would not find it a problem. I don't like the content; we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u13	That's right, you're right. I think Mr Van Dam and Mr Van Nispen had the same remark. Mr Van Dam does not, I understand. Does he have a question for Mr De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u14	No, but I didn't support the motion. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u15	Then there are still enough Members in the Chamber to support the submission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u16	Apart from what you think, I didn't support her either, so I think there are four supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u17	But now... A lot more hands just went into the air than they are now. Then we're going to re-invent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u18	No, you can't. It's done, Mr. Chairman. I have two supporters, the names of whom are under the motion; you have supported it yourself; that's three people and I've seen more than two hands. I think we're at least six.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u19	This is not at all the path we need to go on. I support such a motion on principle, because I believe that Mr De Graaf should be able to table this motion, even if I am opposed to it in all kinds of strong words. Moreover, as a Chamber, we are probably going to delete the requirement of support from five Members, because it is unnecessary, because if there is insufficient support for Mr De Graaf's motion, he will thus put down three, four, five names of fellow political groups and the motion has also been tabled. With a trick like that, it can be solved. It's all a formality. This doesn't make any sense. It's a waste of time. Mr De Graaf is submitting the motion. The minister's gonna dissuade her. We're gonna vote on it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u20	Mr Van Nispen has a pragmatic approach. Let me look at the Members who have just spoken, because I agree with Mr Van Nispen. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u21	I'm fine with it all. I just want to say that I didn't support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u22	Supporting the motion is something other than supporting the filing, and that is getting mixed up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u23	You really don't have to explain that to me, because I know exactly what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u24	You say you supported the motion, the filing of the motion. That makes a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u25	No, I didn't support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u26	You're against filing this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u27	I didn't support the motion. Whether or not the motion is filed is not up to me. I didn't support the motion. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u28	That's exactly the difference. As chairman, I ask that you agree to table a motion. That doesn't mean anything about what you think of the scope of the motion. For filing, we need five people. Mr Van Dam said that he did not agree with the motion. That's how I understand you? Mr. Van Wijngaarden, you've loosened something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u29	Mr President, I do not want to make it more difficult than it already is. What I am struggling with is the point that this motion seems to completely ignore the powers we have as a Chamber. I find that very difficult, I say sincerely here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u30	You made that clear. Mr Grothuizen agrees. He also disagrees with the submission of this motion. What about Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u31	I just want to say that I think it's uncollegial. It is suddenly as if there is a separation between the people who assume a judgment on this matter and the people who do it as we always do. I am sure you will remember motions that you have tabled which do not satisfy the dogs, and then they will be put to the vote. I find this uncollegial behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u32	If I am really faint, then I come to five because I myself support the submission and there are two signatories to it. Mr. De Graaf, as chairman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you mention a name in the motion. Are you prepared to delete that name, because that's something we don't usually do. You couldn't mention the name in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u33	I will consult with my colleague Markuszower before the vote, because we will table the motion together. I have received a substantive question from Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u34	Yes. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u35	This is about what Poch, Wilders and Dutch society, as well as the rule of law, are struggling with. That's a much bigger struggle than the one that was just going through here, I think. This struggle is about the fact that culture has arisen as I wish to name it, along with my colleagues. You don't have to live in Palermo and there's no need to shoot to have a particular culture. It's about culture. I did not say that there are knives, machetes or guns waved at the Ministry or the Public Prosecutor's Office, or that they are being used in the direction we all do not want. So I want that distinction made: culture is culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u36	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u37	In that I think my point is clear. Thank you for supporting the tabling of the motion, even though it becomes almost unnecessary. I have never seen any motions of my own, I regret to say, where the dogs do not like bread. I support every motion I make and will remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u38	Good. Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u39	Mr. Chairman. Just a quick word on the net. I'm totally fine with the contents looking like that. That's Mr. De Graaf's right. I just have a problem with it, and I want to make a point about it, about people who are not here. They're qualified in that motion. I think we have a standard of decency to uphold. That's why I'm not signing this time. That is his opinion and that he wants to put it to the vote is absolutely fine, I am not about that. I am concerned with the wording that goes too far. Mr. Chairman. We have had a debate, not so much as my colleague, with you all about the Public Prosecutor's Office. A lot has been said. Many measures have already been taken. I have looked again: five committees are being set up and procedures are being tightened up. I think it's very necessary and good. I also went back to the beginning. That is the Fokkens report which talks about a lack of ethical leadership. It is an enormous task to achieve that in any organization, but certainly also in the Public Prosecutor's Office, an organization I expect to be, and many with me I think ethical leadership is taking place there. It's very difficult and it's very simple. And to support that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in its report the Foks Commission concluded that it lacked ethical leadership at the Public Prosecutor's Office (OM);]] [[Considering that a lack of ethical leadership, especially in an organisation such as the Public Prosecutor, is a serious charge and deeply affects the essence and functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[having regard to the annual report of the Office on the operation in a broad sense;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in its annual report, the Public Prosecutor devotes a specific chapter to the development and level of ethical leadership within the organisation for a period of five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Dam and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-202]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u40	Madam President. The report of the Fokkens Committee was painful, but it is hopefully a step towards restoring the public prosecutor's self-cleaning capacity to strengthen the public prosecutor's self-cleaning capacity. And that is crucial for one of the core institutions of our rule of law and, of course, for the pride and joy of the employees. During the AO we discussed the dominance of one of the chief officers, the missteps that could take place and the lack of supervision of the prosecution. I think that Minister Grapperhaus' proposal, mentioned earlier by my fellow Members, to have a little more supervision from the Supreme Court in itself is a very good development. But like Mr Groothuizen, I also have questions about how this is organized and how relations are with the Justice and Security Inspectorate. I would ask the Minister to respond a little more. The most important thing I'm wondering is whether something has changed about the ministry itself, because the department of course knew about the chief officer's affair since the beginning of 2014 and about the imbalance at the Public Prosecutor's Office. Still, it could have been going on for years. Only after the newspapers had reported about it, did the Chamber hear a little more about the integrity problems. I believe that the Minister did not reflect enough on this during the AO. Finally, no motion. So no one has to support anything. Just the remark that there are good intentions regarding the transparency of vacancies, but that they have been put aside a few times already. I think it is very important for the confidence of us, of society and of employees that there should be no double standards and that exceptions should not be made too easily. I hope that the public prosecutor's summit will take that to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u41	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're coming out of a serious crisis with the D.A., which had to do with integrity. This is primarily due to the individuals at the D.A. itself who made those mistakes and to the organisation as a whole. I welcome the fact that, as the Minister has announced, it is being looked at whether money can be recovered from culprits and whether wages have been unduly paid. That is what we are waiting for with a great deal of interest. But the Ministry also failed by staying away at the time. They knew about it at the Ministry and they didn't do anything about it. That raises the question: why does the Minister interfere so little with the Public Prosecutor's Office when it matters, when it comes to performance in the criminal justice chain, when it comes to the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office as a whole and when it comes to integrity? That is why, in the debate, I asked for a report from the Minister and to discuss the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office with the Chamber, preferably periodically. Now, in response, the Minister promises to send the public prosecutor's annual report to the Chamber again and to hold a general discussion on it. But of course that adds very little, and I do not think it does justice to what we have agreed on in general consultation. On the other hand, we see too much interference with individual matters, or we seem to see that. I call the Wilders case, I mention Shell's corruption in Nigeria. It is completely unclear what the Minister did exactly when in those cases. And that's where distance would be appropriate. In short, where distance is appropriate in individual matters, the Ministry sometimes does not keep that distance and where the Ministry should be more involved, the Ministry sometimes sits still and nothing happens. That's what I'm worried about. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u43	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden. No? Then I'll look at the minister. Can you respond immediately? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u44	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that in December your Chamber and I had the opportunity to discuss in depth and in detail the results of the report by the Fokkens Committee and what has been done with it. I believe that these kinds of discussions are part of the rule of law and that they ensure that we promote the quality of our constitutional institutions. I say this because some people who are looking at this may get the impression that something is definitely going on because there is a lot of debate. There was something going on, of course, there is also a very clear message from the Fokkens report, but it is also just right to talk periodically about these important institutions, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office. I will come back to that later in replying to Mr Van Nispen's point. In this context, I have sent you a letter under the motto 'the Five Disc', which I used in December, because, as promised, I addressed five subjects: the appointments, the complaints, the integrity issues internally, the reason for the Fowls report, the monitoring and internal policy. This has led, among other things, to the fact that I indicated in the letter that the supervision of the Public Prosecutor should indeed take shape in an extension of the tasks of the Attorney General of the Supreme Court and the possibility of, if there is an inspection report in which the Public Prosecutor's Office appears and the inspection cannot then draw any conclusions or recommendations from them, as is the case in the case of state law, the pg of the Supreme Court can do in future. And vice versa: that if the pg of the Supreme Court itself sees reason for an investigation, he is given the opportunity to do so by the inspection, so that he can then make conclusions and recommendations on the basis of the fact finding in that investigation. And it must of course be the case that the PG of the Supreme Court is sufficiently equipped to do so. In this context, I am also willing to look at the need for enlargement. I have already indicated myself, also to the High Council's pg, that I fully understand if a second step were to be taken at the High Council, in addition to the pg itself, for the supervision work. Of course, we are also going to establish the capacity, as far as it is necessary in a supportive sense. Then there is the ratio inspection-pg Supreme Court. That will work in such a way that if there is a report of the inspection in which the Public Prosecutor is present, recently I have debated with your Chamber a very terrible case in which the Public Prosecutor has also played a role and will then make the conclusions and recommendations to the Public Prosecutor. On the other hand, if the pg indicates that it wishes to carry out an inspection investigation on a particular issue or part of the tasks, I will be willing to do so without taking a stand on its own. Of course, I shouldn't say to the pg: well, that's not necessary, we'll do that another time. As soon as the pg indicates that such an investigation is necessary in the context of the supervisory task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u45	I have a supplementary question on this. It is good that the Minister says so, to keep these matters pure. The inspection is, of course, the minister's inspection and the pg is fortunately not the minister's. So how are we gonna handle this now? Is it stipulated in some kind of Rules of Procedure that this is the intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u46	This requires a rather concise protocol. I could predict that on one A4. In fact, that protocol usually says one that the PG of the Supreme Court in the context of its supervisory function in the Public Prosecutor's Office can decide to have a further investigation of an issue concerning the Public Prosecutor by the Justice and Security Inspectorate. Two. In this context, the pg will make an announcement to the Minister, after which the Minister will ensure that the inspection contacts the Pg with the Supreme Court as soon as possible. Three. The investigation by the inspection is carried out under the political responsibility of the Minister, but according to the instruction and instructions of the PG of the Supreme Court. Four. Dutch law applies to all previous provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u47	The Minister has almost written the protocol. So I'm sure he doesn't find it complicated to send the protocol to the Chamber once it's been printed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u48	I hope it got through in jail. I shall come to Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen's question later. First, I wanted to deal with the motions. On the motion in part No. 200, Insight into money cybercrime for the D.A., I can only say that that's an idea that I can't support too much. Well, then I'll have to dissuade it again, but I'll give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u49	The motion in part No. 200 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u50	Mr. Chairman. On the motion in part No. Mr De Graaf and Mr Markuszower, I would like to say out loud that there is no question of a lying mafia culture within the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office in the Netherlands is an institution of international and, as far as I am concerned, national importance, precisely because of its integrity. I would also like to say out loud that I welcome the fact that, in June 2018, the current chairman of the College itself took the initiative in the investigation that led to the Fowls report. Mr. Chairman. This government has never promoted a cover-up culture, not at the Public Prosecutor's Office, nor really in my department at any other service. So that alone is why I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u51	The motion in part No. 201 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u52	Then the motion to part No. 202 by Mr Van Dam to devote a specific chapter to ethical leadership for five years. On that motion, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u53	The motion in part No. 202 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u54	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg asked: "Did the ministry itself change? Can you reflect on that?" I would like to promise you that I will not be doing so for long, because you will also want to have a debate on the proposal for the Safety Research Council. This is an issue that, as has already been mentioned, was at least raised at the Ministry in 2014. It is not for me to judge this in itself; the committee has ruled on this. The committee is not flatteringly talking about what happened in 2014. In the years I've been there, I've seen that under the leadership of the soon-to-be leaving sg, there's really been a lot of work going on with each other. On the one hand, these two different and important powers of justice and security were combined. But above all it was also about creating an honest, open culture in which people dare to say it to each other if something is not right. I hope that the opinion of others at the end of this cabinet period will be that this change in culture has actually been there. Mr. Chairman. Why is the Minister of Justice interfering so little? In the context of the Etosha case, I wrote a brief letter to your Chamber explaining that not only the political responsibility but also the legal provisions state that the Public Prosecutor's Office must provide me with information that is useful in such a way that I can assume that political responsibility. I also indicated in that letter that this is not the same as, as has been suggested, interfering on my part. The initiative to bring that information forward also comes from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Because as long as I don't know a case, I don't even know whether or not that case is considered sensitive by the D.A. And what's sensitive? There is not a really strict definition for this, but that is a matter that will play a role in the political responsibility of the Minister. You have heard me crying in this Parliament over the past two years and five months, I say five, but I am now a little too excited; it is two years and four months each time I say that I do not interfere with the individual aspects of one case. I now come to the proposal that I made in the letter and that I also made in the AO: let's talk to each other every year on the basis of the annual report. Mr Van Nispen has rightly said that the annual report itself is already public. That is correct, but I think it is good to go through it critically with each other in an AO, partly on the basis of the developments that are being discussed daily in the media or in our progress debates or AO's. I think that's how I started, and that's how I want to conclude that the state's attorney's office is an extremely important institution. It has a very good reputation in the Netherlands. I know a lot of young people. I know a lot of young people anyway, but it's because of my own age that they are by definition young when I know them. Of course because of the nature of the work, but also because of that reputation. Let us, for my part, have an annual wide-ranging debate on this in the plenary. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-18.u56	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on 3 March after the Krokusreces.
