ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Smals, on behalf of the VVD, for his question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, whom I would also like to welcome, about students who are delayed due to a shortage of traineeships. I call Mr Smals on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before corona I was worried about the shortage of internships and since the outbreak of corona I have been doing so much more. It is good and good that the Minister quickly, in consultation with the SBB, set up an action plan. But with companies calling for internships to be made available in particular, while those companies themselves are fighting for their survival or struggling to give their own staff a decent workplace, within all the corona conditions, I think we are not getting there. The VVD therefore believes that it is a solution to look further and to provide pragmatic and creatively for other ways of getting those students ready for the labour market. As far as we are concerned, the solutions are as follows. First of all, it is a matter of ensuring that additional training places are provided directly to the internship counsellors and to the companies and organisations that make them possible. But we also need to think about how we can better and more fairly distribute the available internship capacity among students. With such persistent deficits, we may need to look for solutions to allow students to gain more practical experience at school. The MBO sector has already demonstrated in a short time to be able to switch from physical education to distance learning. So why don't you change the arrangements for certain internships? In short, I think just an extra bag of money isn't gonna help. So, Minister, what are we gonna do? Are we going to bet money on advertising ads to create awareness among companies?To be honest, do you believe me: that awareness is already there or are we going to stand next to the MBO student and look at what needs to be done by industry? How are we going to ensure that we can get MBO students to the finish line in a different way, with a full MBO degree? At this time we are also asking for a lot of flexibility from those MBO students, and we must try to offer them that flexibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Smals for agreeing to this point here. This is a point that we have to pay close attention to each other. We have actually talked with the sector from the start of the corona crisis about how to ensure that we can apply the lessons learned from previous crises immediately. I'm talking about the shortages of internships and apprenticeships that then arise, and which we'll regret later. How do we make sure we don't get that now? What are we doing more about creativity than, for example, using additional resources, which are also badly needed? That is actually what Mr Smalls is asking for. And we're all doing that. Let me explain to you how we do that. Schools are constantly searching with companies in the region for other solutions to ensure that students can still take an internship and obtain their diploma. This is done, for example, by using not one, but two students at an internship place. This is done, for example, by shaping practical education at school, if that place is really not available. I have seen this myself, for example with students who took a cook's course when the catering industry was still really closed and who at school did get that experience. We also do this by, for example, raffling very well what a student should actually learn in that internship or in that learning job. Perhaps the internship company we would normally ask for is not immediately available, but he can learn the same in one or two other places. So we're finding all kinds of ways not only to make sure that there are more internships and more learning jobs, but also really the customization you're asking for. A very good example is what is happening in the Eindhoven region: there, the Summa College, together with the municipality and the local business community, set aside what they were looking for internships and apprenticeships, what the local business needed and how it could be broken up into learning goals, so that it would fit together, because there was originally a mismatch. And so, in addition to the campaign that we are indeed going to conduct, we are looking, in addition to the conversations that I have with Coalition-Y and JOB and students, for example, to see how we can motivate companies to continue offering these places, just for very practical solutions. So what you're asking for is part of the service document about the mbo you have, and we're already doing it. And I certainly intend to go through with that really hard for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	Well, that's nice to hear, of course. Frankly, I was not expecting another answer either, and it is actually the only answer. I do have another thought or consideration. There are also a lot of students who may now be in training with fewer job opportunities. For example, we have just had a debate on aviation. Well, the MBO training in aviation is a big problem. Can the Minister indicate what she is doing to help such students, first and foremost, to enable that internship that is not there, and perhaps also to help them to make a different choice or choose a different direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	That's a very good question. Last Friday, you received a letter from the cabinet on the third aid package. If you read this letter correctly, you will see that there is an approach to tackling youth unemployment, but also to preventing it. And what I will do with my colleague, Mr Koolmees, is to see which young people run towards the end of their training in a sector where job opportunities have actually deteriorated considerably; the event sector, for example, I am thinking of that. How can we, perhaps by leaving them longer in education or offering them a learning job in a slightly different sector, increase the job opportunities of these students? In doing so, we have a budget which you will see in the budget, which will also reserve funds if, for example, this leads to an additional seizure of the system of practical learning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	Then I have one more question, Mr President. I hope that it will succeed in tempting the Minister to say: if we are a year ahead, for example, we have reduced the shortage of 21,000 learning places to 10,000 or so. That's still 10,000 too many, but can I tempt you to something, so we have a hard end on which I can pay you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, Mr. Chairman. I understand that Mr Smalls always likes to pay, but neither you nor I know how this crisis is going to develop. And that's why every number that I'm sticking to is really completely with a finger in the air. Of course, with education, with business and with students, we do everything we can to ensure that every student can finish his studies with a beautiful degree, and preferably in a sector where he can also get to work. But if you ask me right now: look in your glass ball and predict how this crisis is going to develop... There's no one who can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u9	I understand, of course, that I cannot tempt the Minister to mention a number. And I'm not interested in taking care of the minister either. I particularly care about those MBO students, who I want to offer a good future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Smalls. I have Mrs Kuik, Mrs Kirsten van den Hul, Mr Van den Berge, and then Mr Bishop, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Meenen. Let's see, Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the CDA? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we all think it is important that this MBO can also learn in practice. That bbl, that internship, it's so important, and we can see that there are huge deficits there right now. I also talked to a student, and he said: actually it's kind of weird that we all have to go on an internship one part of the year, and get the other part of the year lessons. Can't that class be cut up? Because we have this one-and-a-half-meter rule, and then the internships can actually be done twice. Is that also what the Minister wants to look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yes, and I can also serve Mrs Kuik here at her beck and call, because we are already doing this. From the start of the corona crisis this has been used and it has also been written down as a policy in the service document that you received from me before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u13	That's nice, but it doesn't seem to happen everywhere. I get this sound from a student. So perhaps in this case the call for this to be used as flexibly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u14	That happens as much as possible, but I would also like to draw attention to the following. The whole education, including the MBO, has done an incredible job in recent months to ensure that education could progress and that as many students as possible could obtain a diploma. You'll always be able to find a student who says: it wasn't quite settled with me yet. Let us also give education a little time to get it right for everyone. I know that everyone is working with man and power to shape education as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mrs Kirsten on behalf of the PvdA. I mean Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u16	It's okay to have my first name, too. We're happy to know each other, so it's okay. As early as June of this year, I asked questions to the Minister about the growing internship shortages that were already mentioned at the time. At that time, the Minister said that there was a final approach. Unfortunately, however, we are seeing these internship shortages only increase and increase. For the final year students there is now a compensation scheme in the form of compensation for students who are unexpectedly delayed. My question to the Minister is as follows. Looking at these deficits, it is almost inevitable that even more students will be delayed. What is the message from the Minister to those students who are no longer covered by the current compensation scheme but who are delayed by the internship shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u17	Then my answer to Mrs van den Hul is exactly the same as before the summer. Students need a diploma more than compensation. So we're gonna do everything we can to make sure that student can graduate. As I said earlier in an interview this week: if it turns out that more students are being delayed, then we will look at that again. My first commitment is to ensure that education can go through as much as possible, that those students can intern, that those learning jobs are there and that those students get a beautiful diploma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u18	GroenLinks is very concerned about the growing shortage of internships. We also discussed it with the Minister in June. The Minister rightly calls on industry, but we are the public sector. We see that there is also a growing shortage of internships, for example in healthcare. I already proposed in June to extend the internship fund for care and well-being, so that we can provide more internships and more internship guidance, for example, in the care sector. What has happened at this point since June?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u19	That question was broader, namely what we can do in the public sector itself. Mrs Van den Hul, for example, asked about internships in the government. In the meantime, the government consultation P and O has discussed how the government can provide more internships for MBOs so that different departments can take that up. In the care is a very nice example what happens in Tilburg, where the internships for both the MBO and the HBO are organized in such a way that more students can intern with the same guidance at the same time. So there is an attempt to deliver real customization everywhere, so that as many students as possible, including in the public sector, can run internships.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr Bishop, then Mr Kuzu and then Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u21	I hear the Minister explaining what is being done to increase the number of internships. All right, all due respect for that. I also see that it is being dealt with thoroughly. However, I also hear the Minister say: and, if necessary, extend the student's study. Now we all know that there are times in education where there is a focus on study return, flow, graduation in time and that sort of thing. How does the Minister guarantee that the educational institutions will not be disadvantaged and will not be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u22	I think Mr Bishop knows very well how I feel about the emphasis on return. I'm talking about student success. We have also included this in the strategic agenda for higher education, but as far as I am concerned, this also applies to the MBO. What matters is that we give every student the maximum chance to get the best degree in his own way. Yeah, especially at this time, that could mean that some students are taking longer education. In fact, that can be very sensible. That is why you were able to read last Friday in the letter on the third aid package that we also reserved funds for those students who are studying in a deficit sector and for whom it can be very sensible that they should stay longer in education to ensure that institutions do not suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u23	A lot of students want to do an internship, but there are just no internships. The Minister replied to Mr Smals' last question that she did not want to be dealt with. The students who can't find an internship spot will be paid for. They're slowing down their studies, and it's gonna take a couple of months. Is the Minister not prepared, because these are special times, to take special measures, so that students are not paid when they cannot find an internship?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u24	Yeah, and I just explained that. If it is really not possible to find that placement or learning job, we cannot really rule out that situation. We have agreed with the institutions that measures should be taken, for example by ensuring that this practical experience is gained in simulations in education itself, so that the student may move from the learning job that is not there to the sphere. Together, we make every effort to ensure that as many students as possible can obtain their degrees without delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u25	The sectors in which the shortage of traineeships is greatest are the safety sector and the care sector. That is surprising in itself, because you would expect that there is a need for extra hands at the moment, even in this crisis. My question to the Minister is: does she also have specific attention to these sectors, also in relation to Mr Van den Berge's question? Does she want to engage in the conversation, including with other governments, to see how we can best support extra hands on the street and on the bed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u26	I do. The lack of internships in the security industry is also due, for example, to the events that are not going on for a lot of students working in security. Yes, I am prepared to talk to these sectors as well to see how we can ensure that students can get to work as much as possible. But I would also like to say that we must continue to ensure that these students continue to be well supervised. So internships should also remain qualitative, but I'm sure I'm willing to start those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we say goodbye to a colleague of ours, Mrs Popken, and then we get the swearing-in of a new colleague.
