ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u1	The next item is the VAO Nuclear Weapons Policy. I would like to extend a warm welcome to both heads of government. The first speaker at this VAO is Mrs Karabulut, but she is not in the Chamber. Has anyone seen her? There she is. You have the floor, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u2	Thank you, Mr President. While the world is struggling with a pandemic and millions of people are starving by war, conflict, inequality, global warming, a number of self-righteous men are in the process of modernising a nuclear arsenal. They are nuclear weapons, weapons of mass destruction that threaten all humanity. The Netherlands, the Dutch government wants to get rid of the nuclear weapons. That's good, that's important. But the practice is another with NATO, namely that there is still the idea that nuclear weapons could protect us. Mr. Chairman. We need to sign the nuclear weapons ban treaty. The American nuclear weapons in the Netherlands, which officially do not exist, must come from the Dutch soil. And three: there must be a serious initiative from Europe to achieve disarmament. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nuclear disarmament can contribute to global security, especially in Europe;]] [[whereas there are American nuclear weapons in Europe;]] [[calls on the government to gather support from allies for a plan for disarmament with the commitment of European countries to send US nuclear weapons back to the United States, while at the same time moving Russia to nuclear disarmament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33783-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u3	Do I understand that if the plan presented here by Mrs Karabulut becomes a reality, then there will be no nuclear weapons in Europe, but Russia will have them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u4	You do not know, but most of the people who are still in the Chamber know that we have had a wide-ranging debate on this. We have listened carefully to what other parties stand for. I know that Mr Koopmans and his VVD also support government policy, namely disarmament and the creation of a nuclear-free world. And I know that Mr Koopmans also stands for two-sided disarmament. That is what we are doing again with this proposal. We also exchanged this in the debate. I have listened even better to Mr Sjoerdsma, to you, to others. You said that we want to do that with allies. We modified the motion. I do not know what else I should do to convince Mr Koopmans that this is about disarmament from both sides. All we have to do is take the initiative, and I challenge Mr Koopmans to do so. Leaving the initiative with the Americans means that they are going to spend billions and billions on modernising their nuclear weapons. The danger of a nuclear accident at the moment has not been so great in years. And so Europe, with the Netherlands first, must take the initiative. The Netherlands has a track record on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u5	Mr. Koopmans, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u6	The VVD would also like to have nuclear weapons out of the world, but the reality is that our opponents have them. The question that remains, even after Mrs Karabulut's many words, is: does Russia still have nuclear weapons when Mrs Karabulut's plan becomes a reality when there are no such weapons in Western Europe? The answer to that question is yes. That is why her proposal, even though it sounds sympathetic, is ultimately dangerous, because then we will no longer be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u7	Sorry to interrupt. I did not chair the debate, of course, but we are not going to have the debate again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u8	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u9	... certainly not on this evening. So a short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u10	Let me answer Mr Koopmans. Either Mr Koopmans wants to give a different presentation here, knowingly, or Mr Koopmans no longer speaks Dutch. It's two-and-a-half. I am telling you that we are taking an initiative to achieve disarmament. We do that whenever the Russians do. I have the clear impression that Mr Koopman is simply preparing to vote against this motion, and I do not know for what reason. I think that is very bad and very serious, especially on such an important subject. Where we are listening carefully, where I have genuinely taken a step in the direction of Mr Koopmans and where I do exactly what he asks, namely two-sided disarmament, he is playing a bit of a game here. I'm sorry to hear that. But that's how I know you by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u11	Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u12	Mr President, thank you. The debate that led to this has now been behind us for many months, but it has not lost much of the topicality. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the United States has developed a comprehensive modernisation programme to replace B61 nuclear bombs for the new type and that the US nuclear weapons located in Europe will be covered by this modernisation programme;]] [[Whereas the removal of sub-strategic nuclear weapons from Europe would contribute to our security;]] [[Whereas such disarmament can only be possible if it is mutually verifiable and irreversible;]] [[Whereas the moment of modernisation involves a physical transfer of nuclear weapons placed in Europe to America;]] [[calls on the Government to use the moment of modernisation for a strategic dialogue between the United States and Russia, within the framework of its ally-based commitments, on the reciprocal, verifiable and irreversible withdrawal of nuclear weapons from the whole continent of Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33783-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u13	Mr. Chairman. Then there's a second motion. It is more about transparency and the information that the Chamber must have in order to be able to talk about complex matters such as nuclear weapons on Dutch territory. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the presence of nuclear weapons in Europe has far-reaching implications for the security of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is important in a democracy that the possible presence and deployment of such weapons can be discussed in a transparent manner;]] [[Whereas any modernisation will be accompanied by the physical movement of these weapons from the Netherlands to America and back;]] [[Considering the need for a transparent debate in the Chamber on the modernisation of nuclear weapons before the US actually modernises these nuclear weapons;]] [[calls on the government to press for a confidential briefing by the US Government to the House of Representatives on the modernisation of American nuclear weapons, within the framework of allies' obligations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33783-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u15	Mr Van Ojik, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to put forward further arguments in support of Mrs Karabulut's reasoning here, but I have the illusion that it is possible to convince Mr Koopmans with rational arguments on the part of the authors, a little behind me after the debate just now. I am very happy to state my name with Mrs Karabulut's motion, precisely for the very reason she has just indicated. There must be an initiative, otherwise the nuclear arms race will go on and that initiative can only be two-sided. That's what the motion says. Mr. Chairman. I myself have another motion, which is in fact in line with the second part of Mr Sjoerdsma's speech. This motion is about transparency, because you must not forget that, as part of the modernisation of American nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons are being dragged over Dutch soil without the Dutch people knowing it. In my motion, therefore, I ask not only for a confidential briefing of the House of Representatives by the Americans, but also for transparency towards the Dutch people. It seems to me unthinkable that the Dutch people should not be informed about such a transport of nuclear weapons across Dutch territory. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the United States is to modernise its nuclear arsenal, including all sub-strategic weapons located in Europe, in the foreseeable future;]] [[Whereas this requires the transport of these nuclear weapons across European territory;]] [[whereas it is not officially known whether there are American nuclear weapons on Dutch territory;]] [[Whereas the current agreements with the United States prevent the cabinet from clarifying these matters;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the United States that the Netherlands wishes to revise the agreements so that the public can be informed when American nuclear weapons will be transported across Dutch territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Karabulut and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33783-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u17	Thank you, Mr President. The motion that Mrs Karabulut has just explained has been co-signed with conviction. I would particularly like to say to the coalition parties, but of course also to all the other parties, that if we really want to achieve something, we should want to do so at this time, which requires a step from everyone. That requires a small step from them in the vote tonight, but that can be extremely meaningful. I'd like to invite everyone to be a part of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u18	I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u19	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will provide a response to the first three motions and Mr Bijleveld the last motion. The first motion, tabled by Mrs Karabulut, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik in part No. 42 calls on the government to gather support from allies for a plan for disarmament, with the commitment of European countries to send US nuclear weapons back to the United States and at the same time to engage Russia in nuclear weapons. The Netherlands is in favour of reciprocal, verifiable nuclear disarmament and is part of an alliance whose security depends partly on the availability of nuclear weapons. Our goal is to reduce this mutual and verifiable. In this motion we believe that it is not sufficiently defined that such a phasing-out should be verifiable and that we should do so in an alliance. We have commitments to that. That is why we do not find it accurate enough, and that is why we do not recommend this motion. But I have good news, also for Mrs Karabulut. The next motion, tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind, to item No. 43, describes in a more precise way how we can achieve that objective, which I believe the authors of Mrs Karabulut's motion, namely mutual nuclear disarmament, also want to achieve. Because this motion is in line with the strategic dialogue, the commitment of the Netherlands with NATO partners to negotiations under the new START Treaty, refers to the ally-based obligations and speaks very clearly about verifiable and irreversible. That is why I leave the judgment on the Sjoerdsma c.s motion. in piece No. Forty-three, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u21	I find this very surprising. I'm really disappointed. I thought I listened well to the Minister. I wanted to do business with Minister Blok once. He wants to involve allies and it must be two-sided disarmament. We have had whole debates with colleagues from the other parties and after tough negotiations we have amended our motion. Of course, I expected the Minister to embrace it as a mandate from the Chamber to take the initiative from Europe, to involve those two kemphanes, Russia and the United States, who do not want to engage in dialogue, and NATO, who want to hold on to nuclear weapons, and to start serious talks on disarmament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u23	So, Mr President, my question to the Minister is, because he doesn't want any of that, the first one, once again, shocking, because with that, he actually distances himself from his own cabinet policy in order to achieve disarmament. Mr Sjoerdsma's motion states that the moment of modernisation should be used for a strategic dialogue between the United States and Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u24	Mrs. Karabulut,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u25	How does the Minister imagine this? In the meantime, they're continuing to modernise. NATO is holding on to the doctrine. Will the Minister set a table here for Mr Putin and Mr Trump? How am I supposed to see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u26	That is a very relevant question, including in Mrs Karabulut's motion. I have pointed out that, in my opinion, Mr Sjoerdsma's motion should also be embraced by Mrs Karabulut and the other authors. If Mrs Karabulut continues to read, she will see that this motion is not only about a European dialogue but about the reciprocal, verifiable and irreversible withdrawal of nuclear weapons from the European continent. I think a lot of people can be very disappointed and very surprised, in the words of Mrs Karabulut. It is a motion on a very difficult subject, which you started with, and you are right to do so, but that also requires great precision. A motion which points out precisely that great importance and that great precision will receive the support of the cabinet. I'd say count your blessings!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u27	Mrs Karabulut, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u28	Yes, Mr President, but I really want an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u29	Then reformulate it briefly, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u30	A strategic dialogue, so setting a table for Mr Putin and Mr Trump, both of whom are continuing to modernise their nuclear weapons which are at risk, is, of course, something other than a disarmament initiative. That's one. The second is that we too want it to be a mutual initiative and to achieve mutual disarmament. I would seriously like to ask the Minister what the purpose of this motion is and how he is going to organise it. Because this is really something other than a disarmament initiative. I do not know why, but at the moment I can only conclude that, unfortunately, the coalition parties are not taking this big, important subject seriously and are being bulldozed, or are trying to make us avoid it, rather than having a serious disarmament initiative start some vague conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u31	I leave Mrs Karabulut's choice of words to Mrs Karabulut. I see Members of Parliament from very different parties who are doing their best to come up with serious proposals. On behalf of the cabinet, my colleague Bijleveld and I are responding seriously. I note that there is a certain overlap in both motions because they both express the wish, moreover, that the cabinet also has one in order to achieve a mutual reduction of nuclear weapons. I note that this subject, as I have repeatedly pointed out, requires precision and is of great importance, and that I do find that precision in Mr Sjoerdsma's motion, but not in Mrs Karabulut's, Mrs Ploumen's and Mr Van Ojik's. If you support the important goal, I would say: count your blessings and do not necessarily attach to your own choice of words if there is a possibility that comes close but is more precise and can also be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u32	Mr. Van Ojik, you want the floor, but I'm a little hesitant. I would very much like to give you all the floor, but there will be 16 VAOs. I'm afraid I'll see to it that it's a repeat of moves. Your name is also under the motion, as is Mrs Ploumen's, if I am correct. I would therefore like to stick to what has just been changed. That's not because I don't want to do you any good, but just because we really have a timeline tonight. I would therefore ask you to allow the Minister to proceed with the third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u33	The third motion, in part No. 44 also belongs to Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind, and calls on the government, within the framework of allies' obligations, to press for a confidential briefing by the U.S. Government of the Second Chamber on the modernisation of American nuclear weapons. I understand the wishes of the Chamber very well. The Chamber, at least the authors of the motion, also understands very well that communication on this can only be done in strict confidentiality. So I will be happy to pass this request on to the American ally. In short, this motion too: judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u34	And then there's a fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u35	Mr Bijleveld will comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u36	Mrs Bijleveld has to wait for a moment to jump up, because first the table has to be cleaned. Mrs Ploumen, I have just told your colleague Van Ojik that I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u37	We will continue to listen to the Minister. We have no objection to adding to our request that it should be a plan for verifiable disarmament. For my part, I can no longer imagine why the Minister would oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u38	It is becoming a little more precise, but it is still not as precise as Mr Sjoerdsma's and his motion, because it includes the other components that are needed for this. In your position, I'd support that motion, but that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u39	Mr. Koopmans, the same applies to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u40	I have a small, clarifying question. Two shorts, Mr. Chairman. In the second motion, in part No. 43, stands "of the whole European continent." I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at the weapons held independently by France and Great Britain. In the third motion, in part No. 44 is spoken of 'of the Netherlands'. Well, I didn't think we were having a debate on that for known reasons. So I wonder how he reads that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u41	The Minister, if you've followed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u42	The first question was whether the nuclear weapons of Great Britain and France were involved. That is, of course, up to the negotiating partners. They are both NATO countries, although I know France has placed its nuclear weapons outside the NATO structure. I must leave that to the countries concerned, knowing that the large quantities are still in the hands of the United States and the Russian Federation. In his second question Mr Koopmans asked, if I have understood him correctly, in what sense that is specifically about the Netherlands. You know that the cabinet does not make any announcements about whether or not nuclear weapons are present in the Netherlands or in another NATO country. I read the request in the motion in part No. It also stands there literally as a request for a confidential briefing on the modernisation of American nuclear weapons. It doesn't say where they would be. That is why I can leave this motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u43	If I may, Mr President, I have a question, purely for my understanding. Because of the way in which the Minister answers the various questions, it seems as if the difference lies in the words "verifiable," "unrecoverable" and "mutual." That is what the Minister calls 'precision', which is what the Sjoerdsma c.s. motion calls 'precision'. But not in the Karabulut c.s. motion. Sit. Is he saying that the operative part of both motions is actually just as sweet to him? 'Cause they're quite different. One is about a strategic consultation between Russia and the US and the other is about the removal of nuclear weapons from European soil and disarmament on the Russian side. Those are two really different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u44	One last try.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u45	Sorry, Mr Van Ojik, you disappoint me a little now, because Mr Sjoerdsma's motion contains more than you're reading. You do what Mrs. Karabulut did. This motion ends with 'the mutual, verifiable and irreversible withdrawal of nuclear weapons from the entire European continent'. I'm just reading it to you. Once again, I can imagine someone following this debate from afar thinks: count your blessings and support that motion now. For that motion pursues in all precision what you want, so I think a listener at some distance would also conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u46	We will proceed with the fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make the motion in part no. 45, by Mr Ojik c.s. I'll take care of it. The operative part is: calls on the government to inform the US that the Netherlands wishes to revise the agreements so that the public can be informed when American nuclear weapons will be transported across Dutch territory. I would like to point out that, at all the meetings of the Nuclear Planning Group, we always pay attention to the Knops motion and that we also support you, I know that we are always bringing forward the debate on transparency. At least I am doing so myself, and I know that Mr Blok is doing so. We are always trying to take steps in this respect. On the point in Mr Van Ojik's motion, Mr Blok and I already answered parliamentary questions in November. You put the argument of transport underneath and you use it as an argument that there is a chance that something may go wrong and that people need to know. In the parliamentary questions we have indicated that this opportunity is exceptionally low and that there are, of course, various crisis decision-making plans for this. On the basis of what is stated in the operative part, I have to advise against the motion, because it runs counter to the policy just explained by Mr Blok. On the basis of the all-encompassing and legally binding agreements we have made, we do not, as a cabinet, communicate the numbers and locations of the American nuclear weapons present in Europe. That's the way it's written down. That means I want to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u48	The motion in part No. 45 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u49	I know that there are no notifications on the basis of the existing agreements. That is why the motion calls for a meeting with the US to review the existing agreements. That's the whole idea. Because then the Dutch people can be informed, in due course, if nuclear weapons are transported on Dutch soil. I mean, it really seems obvious to me that it's important for people to know that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u50	The Minister, for a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u51	We are members of the alliance and we are committed to the agreements that have been made. I have just indicated that we are taking up all the opportunities to be more transparent, following the Knops motion. All we can do is change those appointments with each other. I cannot give any further information about the meetings on this subject. So I'd like to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u52	Mrs Karabulut, I am very generous; briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u53	There's something very important. In fact, a top secret document of the American national security archives in Washington has recently become public, in which it is quite clear that the Netherlands has nuclear weapons and has agreements with the US, namely that we have given the Americans full power to use those nuclear weapons. Now that this is on the streets and even making American archives clear that there are American nuclear weapons, why does the Minister and the Cabinet deny us, as representatives of the people, information about modernisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u54	I simply responded to Mr Van Ojik's motion, which does not contain that question. And I didn't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u55	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u56	No, Mrs. Karabulut, no. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-67.u57	I'm gonna suspend the meeting and then we're gonna move on to another VAO.
