ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA for his question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment on the increase in the number of customers of the Food Bank. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The number of households dependent on the food bank in our capital has doubled. An article by de Volkskrant headlined: "Many shame in the line for food." A doubling of the number! The article looks very much at reaching out to vulnerable groups, but is it still true? I read the story of Sandra, who was principal for 16 years in high school. She wanted to use her talents for other schools, but Corona ran away with her assignments and now she has to call on the food bank. In the meantime, is there not a domino effect, so that not only vulnerable groups, but also more and more groups that we previously counted as middle-incomes, perhaps even higher middle-incomes, now have to call on the food bank? Do we have an overall overview of this, not just about Amsterdam, but for the whole of the Netherlands? The article goes into Amsterdam, because the catering industry and the cultural institutions may have increased the profession there. How's the $4 million the cabinet's handed over? Is that enough? My group would very much like to know whether special attention is also paid to children who have fallen into poverty. I hope the Secretary of State can answer that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Slootweg, and rightly so that he asks questions about the article in de Volkskrant, which I have, of course, also read. The food banks were................................................................................................................................................................. And yes, it comes down to that. As far as we can see now, but those are the figures at the end of June, we see a national increase of around 8% to 9%. We can see that there are great regional differences. And he himself pointed that out: especially in areas where many sectors are hard hit, the rise is greater. Every month we talk to the food banks as well. I will ask them if they could perhaps give a more precise understanding of these figures, then I can give them to you as well. You asked about the 4 million we gave as a guarantee. In the periodic consultations we have, the picture is still as follows. That 4 million has not yet been addressed, it has not yet been necessary, so it will remain normal for the time being. But, yes, none of us know, unfortunately, of course, how it will all develop in the near future. But it is a good thing that scenarios are also available at the food banks. Furthermore, Mr Slootweg asks: how do you deal with the shame that people feel? That's kind of a complicated one. I think we can understand that shame a little bit. I also told you last week about the whole campaign that we started again about debt and poverty, which is actually specifically aimed at it, and also about those new groups that are now in the picture and that have become vulnerable. I also refer, of course, to the very large support package that we presented as a cabinet two weeks ago on Friday, which also releases a lot of extra money for poverty and debt, and we will also pay a great deal of attention to children in the development process. I think those were Mr Slootweg's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	Yes. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers. For us there is still a huge puzzle, because if we see that every year, for example in 2019, a beautiful economic year, 74 million has been collected by the food banks to distribute among 151,000 households, and if we see that it is a doubling, and if we hear of the 4 million that has not yet been addressed, then we wonder: can we do this? That is why, together with the Christian Union, we are writing an initiative paper, which is almost ready for completion. Are we still able to reach all these groups? Of course, I also read about the emergency package, but how does it end up with food banks? That is the first thing I would like to say a little more about, and in particular about the children who have fallen into poverty. But secondly, the point of shame. There is a campaign, of course we have heard that. I think that was, of course, a campaign to better reach those food banks. But this shame itself, how can we actually take it away as a society, because there can be no point in being ashamed of it? For example, are schools also being used to ensure that there is no more shame? Because I have heard a very moving story about this too, in which children sometimes fight for the food that is thrown away by other children, who say: I'll get a croquette sandwich, so you can use the sandwiches. I don't want us to have to go to a society like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	No, we certainly shouldn't want that. Moreover, our image is very good, and we talk a lot with food banks, just to get the signals there all the time that it is sufficient in terms of budgets at the moment. But we remain on top of that, and that EUR 4 million is just standing. Still at the point of shame. I myself have been able to speak with a number of ambassadors. I thought that was very brave, because those are actually the kind of examples that you mention: people who had a middle-income job or even up there, who had a business and then slipped all the way to a very low income in one go. They especially gave you the importance of saying so, dare to ask for help, and also to do so in good time. Because, of course, you know that: the experience is that, if you leave people in debt for too long, the problem is growing exponentially. But you know what I'll do? In the next consultation we have with the food banks, I will once again ask them what their ideas are to ensure that the people who need them do not stand in the way of shame in knocking on their door, and above all, I think, because that also motivates me very much for the position of those children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	Finally, concluding. I thank the Secretary of State once again for his answers and for his actions. The motion tabled by Mr Bruins together with Mrs Palland also referred to additional measures. I can now hear a lot of measures taken, but can the Secretary of State see that more action is needed in the coming period, certainly in the course of next year? I am also thinking of a number of sectors and people who are now entering them that we have not seen before. I am thinking of restaurants or cultural institutions, of people who have always been very capable of keeping their own pants on. Shouldn't special policies be aimed at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	I refer back to the aid and recovery package, including the EUR 1.4 billion accompanying social policy. You've seen all that. Moreover, we must focus on preventing people from entering this position. Mr Slootweg will agree with me. We have to make sure they just keep their jobs. We're all working that out now. In part, you'll see that again at Princess' Day. And then for the long run: of course those are a bit like-dan questions. No one knows exactly where we stand in a year's time, but the cabinet and I will continuously check whether what we do is sufficient. If there's a need to reconnect, we need to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	Then I have Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	The working poor have lost their jobs and are now standing in line at the food bank, but this cabinet can really do something about it. Because this cabinet could imagine deleting the assistance reduction provided for in 2021. That saves 16.7% of people in poverty. That's calculated. So my question to the Secretary of State is: isn't this the time to delete that draconian measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	In any case, this is the moment to further develop an unprecedented package that we have presented. This is precisely because of the position of low-income people or those who end up in the welfare system. For poverty and debt alone, we're paying an additional 150 million. By the way, there is going to be a specific comment on this point, which has been pointed out by research offices to the Chamber, so you will see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	Again, as with the previous govern ment, Mrs Ollongren, I get the feeling that this Secretary of State is hiding behind: we are coming up with a support package next week, so just wait and see. The practice is, as the newspaper said last year, that 400,000 children grow up in poverty in the Netherlands. These are the consequences of the policy of this cabinet, of the VVD, and of the last 40 years. If you're gonna have one of those kids at school that just doesn't have anything to eat... I spoke to a teacher. The teacher said, "I'll give them sandwiches in the afternoon from my own pot so they can have some food." So what is the cabinet going to do structuralally, not just on the basis of the fact that we now have corona, instead of telling people that they should not be ashamed of being poor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Azarkan did not hear me say that at all. I have answered questions from Mr Slootweg. He asked if there's anything we can do to make people who need help feel ashamed to ask them. If there's any help, it'll be nice if it gets to people who need it. You'll agree with me. There was also poverty for corona. The cabinet has already done a lot for this, especially for child poverty. You also know that we are working on municipalities to ensure that the budgets that we have made available for them actually end up with those children. There will also be a progress letter to the Chamber shortly, but I can already tell you that we are seeing an improvement there. In addition, we have now made a package to deal with the worst blows of the next two years. In the long run, I think that we should, above all, ensure that this economy continues to grow, or grow again, so that we have sufficient resources to combat child poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	The young adults flowed relatively often. This group also often has a flex contract. We would like to ask the Secretary of State to investigate whether it is possible to prevent a build-up of debts in this group. Then I have a second question for the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State also investigate whether these new customers of the food bank are in the picture with the municipalities, and whether the municipalities intend to proactively approach and assist these customers in preventing debt, or indeed in resolving their debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think it would be a good idea if I included that last point, as well as Mr Slootweg's suggestions, in that discussion. You know that my predecessor was working hard on the broad debt approach. I'll see if I can see Secretary Van Ark. Yeah, there she is. See, that's pretty well directed, isn't it? We're accelerating it. So we're looking at what things we can bring forward, what things we can intensify and which groups need extra attention. We are now in September and the intention is to inform you of this before the end of this month. I think you are right that there is a very vulnerable group there. Last week we discussed this in detail in Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you. Then we'll wait for the shift of the guard.
