ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u1	The first item is the report on written consultations Implementation of motions relating to experiments. The first is for the Member Heerema to speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We have had a written discussion on how to deal with the experiment flexible teaching times. We've also discussed it in an AO before. I have a motion with two colleagues because we disagree with the Minister on one point. We think it would be wise to ask for an address to the House on this matter. The motion is called: "judge'sufficient' experiment flexible teaching times." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the experiment has been particularly successful in flexible teaching times in a number of schools, with parents, pupils, teachers and schools very satisfied;]] [[noting that the experiment is continuing flexible teaching times, changing the guarantee of educational quality from "sufficient" in the view of "good";]] [[noting that good results have been achieved with the experiment by previously participating schools with the judgment "sufficient";]] [[Whereas these schools should be able to continue their successful experiment;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the necessary judgement "good" in the view "sufficient" so that previously participating schools can continue their successful experiment with the judgement "sufficient";]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rudmer Heerema, Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-501]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u3	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Heerema for the motion he has tabled on a subject that we have indeed often discussed, even in this place. A motion was tabled at the time, which also received the support of the Chamber, in which it was expressly stated that guarantees of educational quality should also be included in the new experiment. Based on the previous experiment, we know that an experiment requires a lot from a school. We also saw that the inspection clearly indicated that it would lead to risks to the quality of education for some schools. In general, I am concerned about the quality of education anyway, because we are seeing a downward trend. There are many, sometimes practical reasons for this because we are dealing with a major labour market problem, but we also see that we really need to be careful with each other not to set the bar too low, especially when it comes to experiments. That is why I think that, also on the basis of the adopted chamberal motion which indicated that there should be guarantees for the quality of education, we should ask the right question, also in the knowledge that the schools that want to continue from the previous experiment can do so in a good way. At least that is the impression; we are of course working it out even further. Frankly, I am not prepared to lower that bar now, even in the context of wider quality discussions that we are having with each other at this time. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u5	Has the Minister also taken into account in his assessment that such a new form of education, i.e. flexible teaching times, has looked at the education inspection with those old glasses of the old structure of education, where it is very difficult in such a new structure to check whether it is sufficient or good? As a result, you should give them the benefit of the doubt in such a new structure and form and the flexible teaching times associated with it at the time it is sufficient. I know that you, as Minister, must of course fully support what these inspectors have to put on paper, but if it is something new that the inspection does not yet have experience with, then it is also good to show that this is an opportunity for the future, precisely because of the problems in education that the Minister himself has indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u6	I am a little surprised at Mr Heerema's input on this subject. For if there has been one group, you may take that as a compliment, which has consistently indicated that we should not accept low quality, but that we should constantly strive for higher quality, that is the VVD Group. I have been working on this responsibility for more than two years; you know that. I get reports from the inspection, which show that the quality is falling, and not just from the inspection. That's just a concern. That weighs heavily on me, and I hope for you, too. If we are going to start experiments with each other that will allow us to do things outside the laws and regulations, with the aim of gaining experience to see if it will be applicable to all schools, I think it is only logical that we should give clear guarantees of quality, which really are at an appropriate level. The House has also called on me to do so, with a motion bearing your name, which has also received support from opposition parties. In short, I really think I should stand up for this. That's why I'm not going along with this motion. I simply dissuade the motion, because if anything happens to the quality of the motion, I know who is being called to the Chamber first: that is me, to answer for it. I believe that we should use carefully the moments when we can guarantee each other and limit it. That's why I'm giving this judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u7	The Minister does not go into my question, my request, the observation that judgments are given on such a new experiment, which the education inspection has no knowledge of and experience with at all. Of course, we agree that quality must be in order, that it must be high, that we must fight for it. But just such a new experiment, which offers opportunities, where the education inspection also has something new in mind, you have to give the benefit of the doubt. That has nothing to do with the quality. Well, how's an education inspector gonna do that? I understand your position...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u8	But I don't understand this anyway. "We're gonna do something new, so the quality can be a little lower." Mr. Heerema may not mean it that way, but that's how I judge it. As a result, there is a risk of participating in schools which do not have the qualification "good" but are "sufficient." They could be joining us now. This creates risks to quality, which have also arisen in the previous period. A couple of schools really went down. That's what we gave room for back then. If I have to make my choice, I may not choose safety, because that sounds very defensive, but then I choose a higher quality standard. That's why I don't want to lower the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u9	The Minister is talking about the risk that schools that do not have the "good" feature will be able to participate in this experiment, but it is much worse: it is precisely the intention of the motion that schools that are not yet at that level should be able to participate. Is the Minister actually saying that, on the basis of both his judgement and the opinion of the education inspector, we are taking too great a risk with the quality of education if we are going to give schools this space if they are not yet at the level of 'good'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u10	If you give space for experiments, you know there's always some risk. I'd like to do those experiments with schools that are, like, solid. If you have the judgment "good," you are simply firmer than when you have the judgment "sufficient." At the time when we are going to use the judgment "sufficient" for this, 98% of schools are allowed to participate, and then we run risks. It could all go well, but you won't know until the experiment's over. The question is whether you want to take that risk on the front. That's what my judgment is based on: I say you shouldn't do that. I think that there can still be enough schools. Then I'm gonna do it the way the Chamber asked me to. The quality guarantees and equality of opportunity were, by the way, simply part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u11	I don't agree with you at all. This reasoning has been heard in the Chamber for seven years from subject-K: first you have to be good to earn space. But you could also use the reasoning that things might get better if you offered space at the front. Once again, we are dealing with a minister who simply does not want to give that space. Can the Minister imagine that it might also be better to go to schools if they get the room to do things differently from what the law now prescribes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u12	I have also looked at the final consequences of the experiments that have already taken place. We have also talked about this very intensively. That gave me great concern, not for the schools that had done well, but especially for the schools that have gone down anyway. In the end, I decided: I want it to stop now. You know that at that time the Chamber asked me to continue, because the schools that had performed well felt a bit the victim. Although they knew that those were the rules of the game when we started. We were going to collect experiences and then see if we could do it for the whole school field. I am prepared to carry out the Chamber's task of continuing the experiment in a new way now, but I do not want to fall into the trap that we will have to deal with schools that are going to be in trouble again. And that is perhaps a different consideration from Mr Van Meenen's. He says, "Just give me some space, and maybe you'll be okay." I'm just worried about that. That's why I made this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u13	Finalizing, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u14	Yeah, "it'll be okay." There is a bit of a suggestion here that if you have the judgment "sufficient" you are actually a bit of a half-functioning school and that there are actually only a few schools in this country that really do it a bit properly. And those are the schools with the qualification "good." But if you want to get enough in this country, with a very strict inspection and with all kinds of rules, then you really have to take care of perfectly normal, fine education. There's nothing wrong with that. We have also had endless debates in this Chamber on whether there should be anything more than sufficient from a state point of view. The Minister completely ignores that. I hear what he's saying, but I don't understand. I do not agree with his qualification that schools in the Netherlands are in fact on the verge of being inadequate and that, if there is any room for manoeuvre, they are heading in the wrong direction. There's no indication of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u15	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u16	That's not what I said either. I think that is a bit of a caricature of what I have said here. I have indicated that at the time of your experiments, under certain conditions, there is room to deviate from legislation and regulations, that must be strong schools. And what are solid schools? Well, schools that have a sufficient one, that's indeed good. They're not all on the edge. But know that if they have the predicate "good," they're just really solid schools. And then I have more confidence in the way in which such an experiment will take place. That's the trade-off I make on the front. Of course, everyone is free to make other considerations, but this is what I want to say about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u17	Thank you. This continues to "dissuade" the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-30.u18	This motion will also be put to the vote on Tuesday, 4 February.
