ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	The debate is now on the various short-term incentives and rescue measures and the long-term developments of the economy. I give the floor to Mr Klaver, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, as the first speaker. Speaking time is five minutes and in the first term of the Chamber it is possible to ask six questions. I call Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona virus doesn't discriminate. It doesn't look at skin color or passports, not at the size of your house or the thickness of your car, not at your education or your salary scale. Whether you're Achmed or Ben, the virus can hit you. If you're unlucky, it makes you incredibly sick, with sometimes catastrophic consequences. The virus doesn't discriminate, but it does deal with the crisis. If we all have to stay inside to prevent the spread of the virus, it makes sense that this is many times easier for people in a detached villa than for someone living in a one-room apartment. The people with the highest incomes often have jobs with which they can work at home, often not those with lower incomes. They are in the front line of care or in the distribution centres of the supermarkets. If your parents help you with your homework and you can choose from an iPad or a laptop, it's a lot easier to have home education than if you don't even have an internet connection at home. When dealing with the crisis, it does matter whether your name is Achmed or Ben. Achmed and Ben are real people. They both work for KLM; or worked, I must say. I spoke to Achmed at the beginning of the crisis. He worked there as a flex force and was immediately fired by the airline. He had become too high a cost at this time, was told him, with a gross salary of €35,000 per year, of which the government wanted to pay 90%. Ben is Ben Smith, the company's top boss. He still works there. He gets a bonus of seven and a half tons. Mr. Chairman. This shows in a nutshell what is wrong with today's capitalism. If it is right, we should not increase taxes on profits, the highest salaries, because: free entrepreneurship. But as soon as things go bad, the government has to save banks and businesses. And when we finally have to pay the bill, it's not the companies and not the rich of a country that are at the bar, but people in distribution centers, security guards, teachers, people in care actually all the people we've discovered in this crisis that they have crucial professions. The people for whom we all clapping are allowed to pay the price through wage sacrifices, increases in taxes and cuts in the public sector. The last few months have been hard on our country. This time we have come through collectively thanks to solidarity. Young people stayed inside, not for themselves, but for their grandparents. We looked extra at the people who needed it. The coming years will also be tough. Our economy is gonna get hit hard. Here too, we can only get through collectively, as a society, if we show solidarity with each other, if the supermarkets that make mega-profits are going to pay a little more tax, so that we can save catering companies, and as millionaires and billionaires are going to make a bigger contribution, ensuring that people who lose their jobs are guaranteed an income. I am very concerned about this economic solidarity, because I see the same mistakes that were made in the previous crisis. That brings me to the support package that is now before me. Let me be very clear: my problem with this package is not in what it says, but in what it does not say. No refund scheme for large companies. No increase in income tax. No approach to tax avoidance. No piketty tax for multimillionaires. No money for training places to help people get to work. No solid CO-tax. No investment plans for the construction and for our sustainable economy of the future. No extra impetus for culture. No arrangement for flex workers that they've really been helped with. No money for wages in health care. Mr. Chairman. The support package before us is quantitatively huge but qualitatively weak and insufficient. We sail on sight, the cabinet says, but the big question is: where? This plan does not prepare the Netherlands for the future. It does not provide the necessary solidarity. We can't go back to the way it was. Addressing this crisis must be the turning point for a green and inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis affects not only public health, but also our economy. When we discussed the first package of aid, many of us, including ourselves, still had the hope that this would be a short-term interruption and that after a few months the economy would be able to survive. The lesson is that that's not gonna happen. This won't be a quick recovery. The reality is that we must be honest about the fact that our economy is badly affected and that many workers and many companies still have difficult times ahead. The recovery will not be complete overnight. That is why it is wise for the cabinet to offer this second package of support, which again invests a great deal of money to preserve jobs and businesses. Mr. Klaver just called it skinny. I too have all kinds of wishes, but if you offer income support to 2 million employees and 400,000 self-employed people, I do not think that "slim" is the right term. I believe that we are making an unprecedented contribution to ensuring that people do not lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	The distinction I made is that the package is quantitatively large, but that it is quality. Yesterday, a new agreement was concluded with the unions and employers. There are things in there that I am also in favour of, for example that companies get more money for their fixed costs. But there is also a discussion as to whether there is enough money for flex workers, or whether the amount mentioned is high enough. The choice is made not to increase the amount. That is a political choice: imagine that people with a flex contract with the benefit get €100 or €200 more than they got when they worked. I think that's skinny, and that's what I'm pointing out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	I also have a number of points which I would like to draw attention to, but Mr Klaver mentioned the whole package. I think you can't say that if you pay the salaries of 2 million workers and give income support to hundreds of thousands of self-employed people. I welcome this clarification, but I also received an e-mail from an angry member of GroenLinks who had received a member's newsletter stating that the cabinet does help companies, but not vulnerable people. I just don't think you can say that when you pay 2 million salaries. I don't think that's the right tone, given what we all do. There are all kinds of color differences. In fact, I fully agree with Mr Klaver on, for example, the taxation of large assets. I also fully agree with Mr Klaver on the importance of greening. However, I do not think you can say that the cabinet is doing too little for the people. I think that is an unjustified accusation. That's what I read in the newsletter, and I think that's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	I think it's important that you have a substantive debate. I can try to set up a whole debate on the tone, but Mr Van Weyenberg could also comment on my point. The point I'm making is that I think it's lean that these people's income isn't improving. I heard the cabinet talk about it in the previous debate with the Prime Minister. He said that these people might get more income from this benefit than they did when they were working; then we rigged an arrangement for an entire group, which we didn't really help them with. But I see huge steps are being taken for companies without an apology. That's a lot bigger steps. That's what I'm here for, but we shouldn't forget those employees, those individuals. It's still about hundreds of thousands of people in the end. You should go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Oh, yeah. One of the questions I had, I'll ask right now. I would much rather have something for that flex regulation that better matches the number of hours people work. I understand that that cannot be done, and I regret that. What can be done, I ask the Minister. Mr. Klaver just did it again. He says we help companies, but not people. If 10 billion a quarter is used to pay the salaries of 2 million workers, I don't think you can say it's skinny. I just don't think that's a suitable qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	I see you standing, Mr. Azarkan, are you planning to interrupt? It's possible. We're just getting started. Very good. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would like to continue on this point. We're gonna have ten sides that say the government looks very closely at how you spend the 200 million that's reserved for the most vulnerable. Those are people who are just short everywhere, which amounts to €500, €600. We're gonna get ten sides on that. In total, this amounts to 200 million. Somewhere further on there are three rules: we also reserve 2 to 4 billion for KLM. That's not in line with each other, is it? Why are we looking at that point so economical and so precise? Six variants will be developed for how this can be done. That's not in proportion, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	One is a guarantee for KLM. I'm about to ask another question about that. I really agreed with Mr Klaver that I find it impossible for Ben Smith's bonus to continue. I understand the Minister, as a shareholder, has not succeeded in stopping it. My question to him is: is he going to succeed as a guarantor? Is he gonna bet on that? But I fully agree with you that we should look at these flex workers. Couldn't that threshold of $500 go down a little bit? I think that's a fair question. But I do not measure the importance of the number of pages devoted to it by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yet another question about justice. In the first scheme, for the first three months, it was decided to pay up to €9,500 per month. Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about 2 million people. So there are also people who get up to €9,500, let's say €120,000 a year. The government pays 90% of that. I asked the Prime Minister that question. This is also included in the second package. Is that to be justified in relation to the situation in which people come into welfare and therefore receive €1.052 and also have a power test? Can we say to each other that it is just that on the one hand we come up with a few hundred euros for people who earn very little, but on the other hand we pay up to €120,000 a year for groups of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	The cabinet focuses on the jobs that people have, with middle incomes and with higher incomes, to ensure that they are not fired. I'm assuming we're in agreement on that. That there is a limit to that, I think, is very sensible. But I'd like to save as many jobs as possible. So I do not find it at all contradictory either. It's saving jobs. It is ensuring the best possible safety nets where that is not possible. I read all nice lyrics about work-to-work investments, including in the agreements with the trade union movement and the employers yesterday. That's very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	This is really a little running away from my question. We reserve taxpayers' money with each other, because we think there is a huge crisis and we have to contribute to this in the context of job retention. We also choose not to maxim that, but to pay up to almost €10,000 per month. The question is why we do not say to each other: we do two modes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Because I want someone who earns $1 more than twice as much as I want to keep their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	It's not about whether or not he keeps his job. The point is that we as a government pay 90% of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	That is what we do to ensure that companies that have no or hardly any turnover do not have to fire the people. Moreover, I did not see any amendment from you to change this when we dealt with it last time. Or do you want a company to say about people who earn more than twice as much as they do: I get no compensation for that and I don't have any sales, so I'm gonna fire all these people? That is not what Mr Azarkan is proposing, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'm not suggesting that. I suggest that we maximize as far as the 90% concession is concerned. Mr Van Weyenberg does not tell me that we have to pay up to €10,000 if we are in a crisis where people are at home and people are forced to do nothing. That could be up to $5,000, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Then you take the big risk that all those people upstairs will lose their jobs twice. I don't want to take that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	In my opinion, Mr Van Weyenberg reacted a little pissed when it was said here that this cabinet does a lot for companies and actually too little for people. I have a question for Mr Van Weyenberg on the tax on profits. For in previous years we saw that profits were huge, but that people's wages barely rose. That was very good, and also under pressure from the SP... reason for the cabinet to refrain from any further reduction in the tax on profits last year. After all, those wages had to be raised first. Now we're in the middle of a big crisis. Wages are unlikely to rise or will hardly rise. We are currently transferring billions to business. Does Mr Van Weyenberg not agree with us that it would not be appropriate now to give these large companies even more tax advantage? Shouldn't the tax on profits be reduced off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yet here too, we give a lot of money to companies and we give companies 90% of the wage costs for every job they save when they have no income. That sounds like something we do for the company, but above all for employees. Of 2 million employees, 90% of the salary is now paid by the government, to prevent us from getting those American situations where people are standing up for a WW benefit up to three blocks away. That's the first thing. So I don't see that contradiction. Then there is the question of profit tax. We have adopted a motion from my group chairman in the Chamber, which states that in good times we must ensure that companies make a fairer contribution. That motion has been widely supported in the Chamber, your party voted there, I believe, unfortunately against Mr Oomen-Ruijten, and I expect that motion to be carried out by the cabinet. There is a splendid proposal from Mr Ter Haar's committee to tackle, for example, all kinds of tax avoidance. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna look at that income tax in the summer. You saw last year what comes of this kind of August talks, so I am quite hopeful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	I do not think this is a very clear answer. I think Mr Van Weyenberg is also making a mistake of thinking. The aid goes to companies that are currently in difficulty, and of this, in fact, the wage costs are largely taken over by the government. That's a good thing. However, the profit tax... the word says it already.. is paid by companies with which it goes well, even so good that they make a profit. In these times of crisis, for example, this is an Ahold, with a profit of 48% last quarter, I believe EUR 645 million, in times of crisis. I would ask Mr Van Weyenberg, at this time of enormous crisis, to ask them to pay their fair share. So what I'm saying is that we're not gonna give companies that make profits, we're gonna give them an extra tax advantage, we're gonna ask them to pay their fair share. Mr. Van Weyenberg can't disagree with that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	In fact, that is exactly what this cabinet is doing, because we have all dealt with tax structures. Cabinet policy is now making people pay less taxes, and companies using these tax structures, especially large companies, more. And I have already said that there is an elected chamber motion to do something about these tax constructions. In the summer, the cabinet will also look at the income tax in the budget. I'm not ruling out the fact that it's gonna be different from the last time. I saw in August last year that the cabinet also made a very wise decision. So I'm waiting for that quietly; I'm waiting for the budget with you very anxiously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	That was a repeat, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	The question was also a repeat, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	It is good to hear that Mr Van Weyenberg felt it was a wise decision over the past year not to reduce the tax on profits further; we thought it was. So we look forward to that, too, but I would like to call on Mr Van Weyenberg not only to look forward to it, but also to doing something about it actively. He refers to a motion that says companies should pay their fair share of taxes and not avoid them. Of course, that is very important, but this is specifically about the tax on profits, precisely the tax that has already been reduced so much in the last period for the big companies, which are making huge profits. Billions of dollars of tax have already been given to these big companies, to these multinationals, by further reducing that tax on profits. My simple question is: it doesn't fit in times of crisis, in times when we have to pay the bill together, that we would spare the big companies, especially the multinationals, once again? Is Mr Van Weyenberg not prepared not only to wait and see what the cabinet comes up with, but also to say actively today: no, it does not fit to give even more tax advantage to those big companies that make profits at the moment; they are just going to pay their fair share?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	That was a very long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	And another repeat of the question. So I give the same answer: I have every confidence that the cabinet will make its sensible decision. And I note that this cabinet is already making sure that large companies have started to pay more on balance because we have dealt with these tax structures. As a result, they are going to pay more income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	I hear Mr Van Weyenberg making a plea for job retention. That is extremely important; I think that is what everyone in this Chamber thinks. So we have to do everything we can. However, there is now a package in which it also makes it easier for companies with less than 20 people to fire people; at least the discharge penalty is off. So what else can we do for those employees? I have the next question for D66. Last time we called for a job guarantee: that people, if they are fired, will have the right to return as soon as they are well. On the basis of a principle of reflection, they will simply get their old rights back. Can D66 agree to such a plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	Let's go back first. Of course, it's not because the cabinet, or anyone, wants people to be fired. This is based on the belief that, at a time when the crisis is taking longer, companies are still using the NOW, that they are applying for it at all and that we are saving as many jobs as possible. Yesterday, for whom more than 20 people are fired, an anti-abuse clause was added. I think that is a sensible adjustment, and it is also a good thing that the agreement has been made. I read in the same agreement package that there is a great deal of emphasis on work to work. I think that's a really good development. I know that Mrs Van Brenk agrees with me. I call on the Cabinet to use these training arrangements as widely as possible, for example the more schools of workers. That's something we've both been arguing for a long time. This also applies to ensuring that as many people as possible do not become unemployed on work-by-work routes. And if people lose their jobs, as far as I'm concerned, one of the main lessons from the previous crisis is that you have to help them well. When things get better, they are re-educated and re-educated, so that they can get the jobs that they create. After the last crisis, there was actually a very quick break, while people were still looking for a job. So let's learn that lesson. The work guarantee is an instrument. I'm gonna take a look at that, but most importantly, I think we're gonna make sure that when things get better, people are ready. We have also recently seen that companies have had to look very hard for good staff. So they are, I think, also jumping to employ people again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	The interruptions must be short, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	I don't hear any real enthusiasm at D66 to give people their jobs back. There is now a package of 50 million for training. If 10% of all those people were to be released from the NOW, that means €265 per employee. That's really unwise, isn't it? That's far too little, isn't it? You should want to have a minister here who will ensure that a system such as Sweden is set up to guarantee that people get jobs. They'll be escorted to all these appeals. This can be preceded by a whole training course. That is a good investment; a really serious package that will at least enable us to reduce unemployment very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	And make sure that we help people get back to a job as soon as possible. But of course it's not just the 50 million. There are hundreds of millions in the training funds of social partners. I have seen this amount as a public contribution, as a sort of driver, precisely to make a much larger package with all these hundreds of millions. 'Cause it's the 50 million we're not gonna make it. I totally agree with Mrs Van Brenn. I have really read this as an intention of the trade union movement and the employers to use all the large sums that are in the training funds to do exactly what Mrs Van Brenn and I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	My last question for D66, because I'm really worried. D66 seriously says that we should try to make as few people as possible truly unemployed. But if they are now and we know that this crisis is going to take a while and we don't know if all these people can apply properly and get a job again, why don't we choose to stretch those WW rights a little bit, so that people will have a fair chance of getting another job? Is D66 willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	In my opinion, all attention should now be paid to guiding people from work to work. That's where all our energy needs to go. As far as I am concerned, this is really the most important task, in addition to supporting training.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. An anti-abuse measure has been added to the package. I think that's wise. I understand very well that this was a struggle. I also fully understand the concern of the trade union movement how to prevent an employer from failing to comply with the Act on collective redundancies and not go into consultation if he dismisses more than 20 employees. So I think this is wise. Moreover, I do not think it is wise for some people to threaten to agree on the whole support package, on which you, as a well-thought-out people, can differ. Then you actually say to those 2 million workers who get paid 90% of their wages, so that companies can keep them in service: then I prefer not to. I think that is a rather irresponsible threat, especially from a party like the Labour Party. However, I note that, fortunately, there is a 'office of labour', which I think is sensible. Mr. Chairman. I just asked a question about the flex workers. Can't we get more customization for that? I still have a concern about the Tozo. That's where the partner test goes off. Is it possible to choose an intermediate form, in which, for example, a contribution from the Tozo is still made at a lower level? It's basically nothing to anything now. I understand that they wanted to tackle excesses, but I ask the Minister whether an intermediate form has been considered and whether that is possible. Mr. Chairman. I also have concerns about the fact that students who work a lot of hours as entrepreneurs are now excluded. In dealing with the package, I will also come forward with proposals for this. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to take a look ahead. I think it is very good that the cabinet is now doing a second support package, but we have to move on to... Mr President, I see Mr Asscher standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	I see him, too, but it's useful if you keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	I'm going to move on to another point. I would like to say a few words about the support package. What we're doing now is the second phase. As far as I am concerned, it is the challenge to really think about the other economy, about the lessons we learn from the crisis. After this second stage there will probably be a third stage, and in that third stage I expect the cabinet to continue a bit in the spirit of the fact that even during the corona crisis we have carried out the Urgendavonnis and solved the nitrogen problems. Because I come across too many people who say: yes, it is crisis now, not the climate now, not the labour market reform now, not the clean air now. My line would be right now. So right now, I expect the cabinet to move towards the summer that we are not just waiting for the new cabinet formation, but are already trying to take a step to tackle major challenges. Right now, with a CO levy for industry and the implementation of the Climate Agreement and the European Green Deal. It is precisely now that we see that, in addition to education, child care is so incredibly important. If we have problems with the childcare allowance, isn't this the time to make child care free for parents? Isn't it time, when you talk about education, to do a bigger education impulse? So I really hope that we can get to work on the arrangements that were made last night as widely as possible. Now is also the time for the labour market. I saw all kinds of proposals, for example from the Work Association. Interesting, but do something about these triangle relationships. We have seen all kinds of examples of what this has to do with abattoirs. That, apart from the type of employment contract, we are going to give people basic security, a system for all workers. I am thinking of Mr Borstlap, of the Workers' Association. As far as I am concerned, I would like to urge the cabinet to continue with this, and thus with this approach to tax avoidance. In order to ensure that companies that we help in the crisis, I would like to do so because I want us to keep the jobs, if things go better economically, will retain their fair share. The Ter Haar Committee has delivered an opinion on this, but I would also like to see it broader. I expect ambition there. My appeal to the cabinet is therefore: do not be paralyzed by this moment, but choose now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	I would like to talk about the aid package itself. There are a lot of creators in culture who are now at risk of falling between ship and ship. Maybe that's 30,000 because they don't qualify for the Tozo. I was wondering if D66 would be willing to see if we could change a sleeve. 'Cause that's gonna make huge holes out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	The holes are indeed huge. And I fully agree with Mr Asscher that this crisis affects the whole infrastructure, including the creators, who are a crucial part of the infrastructure, and who are undermining it in the financial sense, and are obliged to do something else perhaps, while they want to continue doing it. I saw an amendment coming in this morning that I have not been able to study properly. Of course, I'm gonna take a good look at that. I note that, fortunately, the cabinet has already released 300 million. I also just received a letter saying that for the last two and a half months, 60 million will also go to municipalities. Because of course you want to get back to work, so that the makers can just get back to work, because they can get back to work. I think your proposal is more concerned with income support. I'm gonna take a look at how these two relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	That sounds pretty positive. Perhaps in that atmosphere: we also see that some municipalities do something extra. I think that we welcome this, but that those involved can then play a part in appealing to the NOW, because there is already support. In my view, this is not the intention and it is very good that municipalities should also take a step further. So if you're kind enough to see if we can help those makers, then this is something we need to solve. That would certainly be a much better incentive to ensure that there is culture in the country after this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	A lot of money has been made available. I also saw money for the last two and a half months, and the letter says that there can also be settled for the months after that, i.e. for the pop stages and the municipal culture. I prefer that people can just get back to work as much as possible, but we all know that we can't do that all at once. I assume that the measures in force will be extended until 1 September if it becomes apparent that there is no full opening up. The halls won't fill up in one go, I'm afraid. As far as your question on the NOW is concerned, I also ask the Minister how this relates, because this also applies, of course, to many other entrepreneurs. I'm not just getting that question from culture. I also get this question from SMEs. They say, for example, if I have people picked up, that will also be taken into account. So I think there should be equal monks, equal hoods, but I have heard the suggestion. If that were not the case, I assume that the amount that municipalities receive has taken into account the knowledge that part of it comes back through the NOW. As far as I am concerned, the deal should actually be about the net amount, but this is the question I am asking the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	My final point, just now in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	I heard D66 about young people and flex workers. I understand very well how difficult it is to make a proper arrangement for that. The Minister is not in an easy boat either, but I think it would be very helpful if we reduced the amount of the border. There are now a lot of young people and students who are not able to make use of this, but who are really in trouble, just with the rent and with their costs of survival. I would therefore like it if, perhaps with D66, we could stand up not only for culture but also for young people and students. If you go to €500 or €400, it would really matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	I hope that the cabinet looks very closely at the young people as well. We're gonna have people coming out of school. We have seen in the crisis, for example, that young people with a migration background often lost their jobs much faster. So I really hope that the cabinet will take a good look at this too. Responding specifically to your question: yes, I think this is a struggle. I've been working on this with your colleague Gijs van Dijk for weeks. All you'd really want is for it to fit in a little bit with how much money you're losing because you don't have a job. None of this proves to be feasible. Then there will be a very crude arrangement. Apparently, that's the only thing that can do. One of the questions is, can you do anything with those thresholds? And does the amount of benefit go down? So I think we're going through this search together. I ask the same question to the Minister, and I think I have asked him before: can there be anything to do with that threshold? The reality is that what we both really want is not working. I'm afraid that's the painful conclusion. The question then is how to make what can be done as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	It is always a bit difficult to start on agriculture with group chairmen and economic spokesmen who are not about that. But yes, it's a big black hole where a lot of billions disappear, with no result. There is therefore a question on this point; fortunately Mr Van Weyenberg himself has already mentioned it. Of course, the nitrogen problem is not solved. This cabinet is going to allocate another 5 billion to a policy that we can already know is not working. This morning in Trouw it was said that 11 billion was pumped in an attempt to save nature from intensive farming. That didn't work; 11 billion, thrown away. So where are the structural interventions that D66 should be asking for as far as I am concerned? And where is the protection of farmers from free trade agreements when D66 himself says we have to go to circular agriculture? Those questions also belong in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	This is also a bit of the moment you know is going to come with Mrs. Ouwehand. That's very good. You're predictable on an important theme. That's fine, and that's what you were founded for. I simply disagree with you on the appreciation of the nitrogen agreements, but you will not be surprised. There's finally gonna be a lot of extra money for nature. We're actually gonna do something about the cattle. I think that's a win. Are there always any wishes left? Certainly, with you and with me and with me, I know that with my colleague Tjeerd de Groot, but I really think that we are taking an important step towards the solution in this coalition, even in times of crisis. So we didn't choose this: not right now. In the midst of the corona crisis, this cabinet has taken steps here as well. I like that and I think it's really worth a compliment. You and my party just don't agree on CETA. I'd like to tell you that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	No, that debate was held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	I think that separation with circular agriculture is also less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	I think it is too little depth to reflect on the fact that we now have to make structural choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	I know you never talk to Mrs. Ouwehand enough about agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	That's right! And a feather in... Well, let me not mention that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u56	A feather for the cabinet because choices are now being made to save the future? Another 5 billion goes in, some of which for nature restoration, but I say to this spokesman of D66 that the nature budget is still lower than before Rutte I put the scissors in. So that's just embarrassing. D66 has apparently also supported the cabinet in a 600 million package for the ornamental sector. That is twice as much as it is for culture, while the sector, first of all, had a difficult time at first but now sells flowers again. So what exactly was that money for? Secondly, where are the conditions to stop using this agricultural poison that destroys our nature? D66 can have nice words about that we also have to focus on nature and climate and that it is good that we do, but you also have to live up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think you only get money in ornamental farming if there's a loss of revenue, so that's dealt with. I see a cabinet that has concluded a Climate Agreement, which, with a very broad support in the Chamber, wants to implement the Climate Act first tabled by Mr Klaver. By the way, that law was not supported by your party, which I am still very sorry about. The cabinet has made agreements about nitrogen, about extra money for nature. I wasn't in Rutte I, I wasn't in Rutte II. This cabinet invests in nature. This cabinet is gonna make us buy farmers out. I think that all this is progressing and I always fight with Mrs Ouwehand for more when it comes to agriculture, but sometimes a half-full glass is something I am proud of. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Mr Wilders has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona virus has hit our country hard and the Netherlands is in pain. The government's measures to combat the virus largely shut down our economy. The result is enormous economic damage. A deep recession is coming at us. If the cabinet had decided on a short lockdown earlier in mid-February, not only the number of infections and the number of deaths would have been significantly less, but also the economic damage. The sad reality is that tens of thousands of people have been fired in recent months and many more are afraid of losing their jobs and their income. The number of workers has fallen by 160,000 compared to March, which is the largest decline since 2003. Our economy is expected to shrink by no less than 7.5% this year. Madam President. That means thousands of families are hit hard. People who didn't have it easy now often don't know how to pay their rent, their care costs and their groceries at all. And that's terrible. Meanwhile, the coalition is rolling down the street. They are arguing with each other about bringing hundreds of asylum children from Greece to the Netherlands and whether or not we have an extra billion for development aid, as if we have no problems here. And as if this is not enough, they also want to show solidarity with countries such as Italy by throwing hundreds of billions of euros there. What a charade! What wrong priorities! There is now a new support package with new measures, such as a significantly higher amount of fixed costs for entrepreneurs. That's good. It is also right that there should be a ban on dividend and bonus payments in the granting of subsidies. However, I really do not understand why employees are entitled to pay full 100% of their salary, while self-employed entrepreneurs are dismissed with a social minimum plus partner test. 400,000zzp'ers get nothing because of it. That's very unfair. I'm asking the cabinet to cancel the partner test for them. I would also like to say to my fellow Members that, even though we are a little more generous in dealing with the arrangements for flex workers, which have not yet received anything. Mr. Chairman. Then the firing ticket. Anyone who now thinks that Minister Koolmees has solved the problem of the dismissal penalty, which will stop people from being fired by companies receiving subsidies, I want to put out the dream: the new proposal is a wash-up. The dismissal penalty is simply completely abolished for employers who want to fire up to 20 people. It's only when you want to fire more people that you have to get past the unions. But employers had to; that's just what the law says. So that's a giant cigar from your own box. If employers already have to pay a levy, it will in most cases be a lot lower than the fine now. Why wasn't it chosen to give more subsidies to companies that would be in trouble if they couldn't fire people? Think, for example, of 100% of the wage bill instead of 90%. Anything, anything, is better than firing. It is fine to help companies, to maintain employment, but this does not include subsidised dismissal. We should not subsidise companies that are now sending employees to UWV and the food bank. So I urge the cabinet once again to maintain the dismissal penalty as it was in the first aid package. Mr. Chairman. Something completely different. We must learn from this terrible crisis and finally put our national interests first. We must stand up for our own people here in the Netherlands, not those from Italy, Romania or Zimbabwe. So no more billions of dollars are throwing at nonsense development aid for corrupt regimes in Africa. But not a penny more to southern European countries like Italy, which are already bankrupt with huge debts and are only after our money. Whether it's gifts or loans, every crisis they use again to take away our money. Just as all these urophils, including here in the House of Representatives, abuse every crisis to further take away our national sovereignty by introducing European taxes or further increasing the European budget. Don't fall for it! Don't! The sooner we leave that terrible European Union, the better. Mr. Chairman. You must also admit that once upon a time our beautiful land has been overcrowded. Do something about that. That corona crisis is pressing us hard: 17 million people on the stamp Netherlands is far too much. We are overcrowded by decades of mass immigration, which has been facilitated by almost all parties here: a cultural and financial suicide. Because this immigration of non-Western immigrants also costs us 10 billion EUR 10 billion! EUR 1 per year. That is money that we need, especially now in this crisis, to spend on ourselves. So close the borders. Madam President, I'm finishing up. We're a strong people. We have everything we need to defeat this crisis. But then we finally have to make the right choices and put Dutch people back together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u60	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. This weekend in the Vomar, I was approached around the corner by an older man. At least, "parent": in the late fifties. He said, "Please do your best. I'm finally working again." The man installs kitchens. He said, "I am deeply concerned that things are going wrong." I got into a conversation with him and said, "I can't promise you anything, of course, because look what's rolling over us." Then he said, "At least do everything in your power to keep me in service." I think that's our mission now, too. We can see that tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs. We can see that for tens of thousands of self-employed people. All income dropped. We see that a lot of entrepreneurs have lost their turnover. If you have to close your pub, your sales are gone. So it's really very intense what's happening. While the virus itself threatens to affect the organs, the economic fallout is now an attack on the security of existence of incredibly many Dutch. This means that, as far as I am concerned, there is no time for division. That is why I did not understand so well that the cabinet wants to go into the summer months in a total confrontation with the trade union movement. I therefore think it is sensible and worth complimenting that the cabinet has now come out with talks. That is important, because there are still a lot of difficult choices to make. The dismissal penalty is a very important financial incentive for me not to fire people. I think it is very important that, now that the border has been set at 20, care is taken that ten times nineteen people are not about to be fired, that handy guys, we have seen them pass over the last few months, and that they are not going to circumvent that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u62	I really don't get it. It was Mr Asscher who was quite active, I saw him in all talk shows, I saw interviews and I think he even wrote essays about them, which I didn't read, but I would like to say: the discharge must remain. But, Mr Asscher, that discharge, your important point, which a lot of people have seen at home, is gone; at least it's gone for layoffs up to 20 people 100 percent. What remains, that 5% fine, discount or whatever you want to call it, is in practice I've made a few sums in examples, in most cases much less than that 150% of the wage bill that was there. So what can you be happy about now? Your most important point was that the dismissal penalty should remain. But it's gone. It's gone. And the Labour Party is cheering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u63	I always read Mr Wilders' essays faithfully, but briefly: you want people to remain in service. That is the most important thing for the Labour Party. As far as I'm concerned, that dismissal fine as it was in the scheme was fine. I congratulated the Minister on this: a quick, intelligent arrangement. They wanted to delete it. We have seen the various cabinet members on TV about it, and I did not agree with that. What is now, I think, is less good than what was there, but it is also not quite true what Mr Wilders just said, that it is therefore much cheaper; that seems to be because it concerns 5% fine but it does apply to the whole subsidy amount. I could go over a math sample with you. Then you can see that in some cases, if it is a large subsidy, the fine is higher than under the old scheme and in some cases lower, but it is relevant. It's a significant incentive to keep people in service. Does that mean we have a guarantee? No. Am I completely satisfied? No, I didn't. I was actually just about to indicate what I now expect from the Cabinet to ensure that people remain in service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u64	You just went through the pump, when you didn't get what you wanted at all. Once again, under 20 people, there is no more discharge. You can say that we must be careful not to fire 19 people every time, but companies that receive subsidies can just fire people. I think it was your example of those people who work in offices or I know and who pay for that subsidy. Those same people can now be dismissed with the aid of this subsidy if the entrepreneur says that there are less than 20 people, and above that they get a tiny fine. It was your proposal, Mr Asscher, to take care of it, and I found it more sympathetic, frankly, that if companies get into trouble they get a little extra so they don't have to fire people. I would have understood if you had said: I am satisfied. Because everything is better, if necessary an extra 1 billion to the entrepreneurs, than firing people. Now you put your signature, Louis Asscher, under the resignation letter of tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of Dutch people who go straight to the UWV or the food bank because of your twist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u65	I actually think it is a constructive question that you are asking. What could you possibly do to stop people from getting fired under that line of 20 people? I believe that we have the same interest in this; we want people to stay at work. That goes for the gentleman I met at the supermarket but this is about thousands, perhaps millions of Dutch people. As far as I'm concerned, but I'm going to ask the cabinet, too. If such a company is going to fire people, the UWV is going to see if they can't be kept in service, for example by using the support package and the NOW. If that's true, as a company, you don't get a permit to resign. The reason the UWV would say "no, I get it," is exactly the case we were talking about, because otherwise someone goes bankrupt. Am I satisfied? No. I think it is good that the amount has also been increased for SMEs. I will also be in favour of supporting targeted sectors that are particularly difficult, precisely because of the common goal we have, Mr Wilders, to keep people in service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u66	But it's not just about having common goals, it's about having a backbone in politics. Mr Asscher had two demands on behalf of the Labour Party. The first demand was that the discharge should remain. You did not get that here, at least for companies under 20, it is 100% gone. Then you can come up with all the complicated stories about the UWV, but that demand is gone. You had a second request and that was a proposal of your own. Apart from pensions and some other things, you said: do not remove that discharge ticket, but that companies get extra help when they get into trouble, so they don't have to fire people. You didn't get that either. Two proposals, nothing. Again, the next check from the UWV contains the name Asscher next to the name of the director of the UWV. And that's not wise. If you blow high off the tower, you must also be a man, and now you must say that it is no good. You are now applauding because the trade union movement is also applauding, but that is quite wrong, because you have lost. You didn't get it. That is not so bad, by the way, but the worst thing is that these people will soon be fired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u67	When I'm cheering, it looks really different. I admit immediately that I have a different tone than Mr Wilders, and that is because I am not dealing here with Mr Wilders' backbone or with one of the other colleagues. I'm trying to help take care of it, like I promised that guy in the grocery store, that people will stay on as much as possible. That's not gonna work for everyone. We already know that, but we can influence that. So I am trying to influence the policy of this cabinet that is not mine, which in my view made a mistake by removing that fine. They are now coming up with a solution that I would not have thought of myself, but which is not nonsense either. We always have to look out for it in politics, that you say: yes, it's all black, or all white. I think that 5% of the fine on the total subsidy amount that could be over millions of..... is a relevant incentive for companies that will be faced with this choice. And that's exactly why I think it's important, and the cabinet didn't before. You know, if a company is gonna go head-on, then we have to help. But when it comes to increasing profitability, when it comes to a reorganisation that people may have already wanted, yes, then I think we should all make sure that a company somewhere else saves that cost, then makes a little less profit and keeps people in service. I think that's what this is about. So we can make the differences between us very big, but at this point I actually liked to stick together with a relatively left-wing Wilders. And sometimes you get something. But never everything, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u68	To some extent Mr Asscher gets the questions he asked himself last week. However, I am pleased that Mr Asscher seems to be expressing support for the brave deal that has been made by the cabinet and polder in my view, and that also takes the polder's responsibility to participate in these times of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u69	Your friends!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u70	That's still to be seen. I'm sure there'll be another nasty question, Mr. Wilders!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u71	I was building up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u73	But that guy in that grocery store you ran into, you first called him old, then in the late 50s, so it's a stretchable concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u74	I realized I was insulting some of the attendees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u75	That was a good idea. But Mr Asscher also preached that, and that was also true when he used the arguments of Mr Wilders himself last week, assuming that the crisis is really so deep, and we see it in this morning's letter; the polder also sees it. We can't keep all those jobs. Not everyone can stay in the job they have. In fact, flex workers have already lost that job. Would it then be better if these companies were to keep these people for as long as possible or, as the polder and the cabinet are doing now, if we were to see if we could retrain people for whom this job is unpreservable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u76	That's a good question. That also depends very much on how you look at it how much influence we can have on that crisis. That's difficult, because in the beginning we all had the hope of "just a dip and then up again." But I also find it too easy to say: this is the new normal, get used to it, so from now on we have no culture and no cafes. We must also be careful to accept that the coming years will continue to be the same and that we will have to adapt the economy accordingly. I think there is more to be done. That is why I am also trying to have that debate on the strategy in those Corona debates. I think the more we bet on restraining or eliminating that virus anyway, the less the economic damage is and the sooner we can get our normal lives back. Why is that relevant? Then it's always better to just keep people in the service. Then you have to bridge a period and then they can just get on with their work. Then that man can install kitchens. But I also agree with Mr Heerma's question that this is not going to help everyone now. That's a point I wanted to talk to the cabinet about. I see three solutions there. One is to make sure that people can stop working earlier who are now struggling with their pensions. That is much more social than firing a 63-year-old, especially in the heavy professions; the meat industry which is now rightly being given more attention. The second is that you make sure you guide people from work to work. That is not in my view: fire them, give them a certificate of education and let them look for work, but that is from a job. That is why it is a good thing that four months have now come; redirecting to another job, so that people are not out of work for a minute and can work elsewhere. And the third is "b" and that's where I think the cabinet is left behind. Make sure you also make plans to restore the economy in a number of sectors that are now extremely affected, such as culture, such as catering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u77	First of all, I do not think that Mr Asscher should evoke the image that the cabinet leaves certain sectors to their fate. Because if you see the huge sums that are being spent, tens of billions, that is what is done from the background that Mr Asscher calls himself. But what I think is more important is that much of his argument was already valid last week for the package that was there at the time. This has not been fundamentally changed by the adoption of this abuse clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u78	On the first point: I do not understand how Mr Heerma reacts so badly when I say that some sectors feel inadequate. That's just a fact. I've never denied that there's a lot of money going into support right now. I believe that we are entitled to impose conditions on this. If he thinks I'm wrong about that, I say there are some more extreme images to worry about. Secondly, last week I had an interrupting debate with Mr Segers, who asked what you would do with companies that would otherwise not make it. Then I talked about my sister-in-law's bar. She spends her savings and on her retirement and hasn't fired anyone yet. I think we also agree that you need to help a company. I also said that I would like to take part in a compromise so that you can retain that financial incentive against the mass redundancies, but that often helps smaller companies. In that sense, yes, I said that last week, and that's what I'm saying now. Then what's the difference? Last week was the position that the dismissal penalty had to be completely removed. Secondly, I see in the letter texts that are about stopping working earlier. These are texts which need to be further developed in the context of "work-to-work." I think this is important, because I think that we can prevent people from losing their jobs and just keep their incomes and their livelihoods safe. I think that's our assignment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u79	I believe that this was the task last week and was also part of the package last week, and an anti-abuse clause has now been added. But is the addition of this anti-abuse clause for the PvdA the reason to say: last week we indicated that we would not support it and now we are saying that we can support it? If that had not happened, would that have been the reason to vote away a billion-dollar package to preserve jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u80	Last time Mr Segers asked me that question at the end of the interrupting debate: does that mean that you are voting against? Then I said, "Well, I'd really like to vote for it, but if the cabinet doesn't change anything, they make it very difficult for me. We can all read back how that debate went. That is what I said at the time, in the hope that it would not only be said 'it is good; you can only applaud', but also listen to what the trade union movement and workers are saying and indicate what opposition parties are saying. They're not just sitting there to applaud. That is why I have just complimented the Minister for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u81	Yes, but that assignment to work with the polder and listen was also there in the previous period. At that time, the current opposition leader Asscher was in trade union K in exactly the same situation: there were parties in the Chamber who tried to make plans better and often voted for them, while they also continued to improve things. Wouldn't Minister Asscher have preferred that route for the MP Asscher last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u82	Oh, that's a very complicated question! Such a judo grip can only be done by Mr Heerma. Of course, I do not know how I would have done it if I had been in the position of the ministers. It's an unprecedented crisis. I appreciate how hard work is being done, but I am also critical. Sometimes this criticism is motivated by my political conviction, for example that I allow the interests of employees, as I put it, to be taken into account more. Sometimes I sit more on: is this a convenient way to shape this? I congratulated the fine or the anti-abuse clause, which is apparently the new word that was in the first package. A fine is always an anti-abuse clause; a fine is not a pet over your sphere. So I don't know what that's like in terms of framing, but I complimented it, because I thought it was clever. Then you get an employer's allowance per employee: you better keep him in service, because that is financially more favourable. I thought it would've been better if it'd just been in the second package. Well, the cabinet didn't choose that. Then I am critical of my role as MP and representative of the people, because I am afraid that this is going to speed things up at a time when a lot of people are already losing their jobs and that it will be easier to fire people with subsidies. But if there is a compromise, which is not mine, then I am also fair enough to compliment it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u83	We have joined forces with a number of others in order to prevent the dismissal penalty from going all the way out, including with the trade unions. I think Mr Asscher has a point to make when he says that what is now there is better than what was there, because that was nothing at all. Now, at least, there is something about redundancies over 20 people, even though the report on collective redundancies was already in existence before the corona crisis and the trade union movement had a position at the table when more than twenty people were fired. But my question is actually the following. Shouldn't it be the case in principle that if we transfer tax money to companies to pay labour costs and impose a scheme with the words 'preservation of employment' in the title, it is actually a very reasonable requirement to maintain that employment must remain in place? And, indeed, if there are sectors that do not make it, we must help them in a different way, but we must insist on maintaining employment. So that also means that the dismissal penalty should just stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u84	Maybe I should go into that first point first: the law reporting collective dismissal is a bit of a crazy law, because it is a law that has no other material meaning. So it has no consequences if employers fail to comply with it. It works so that that law requires you to report it to the unions, but if nothing happens afterwards or if those unions are talking on the phone, then you can still resign four weeks later. It is not an insignificant law, but it does not offer much protection. So if you add a fine of 5% over the whole amount that UWV can impose, I think that's an important stick behind the door. It's not gonna happen, but it's exactly what we talked about last week, what you want. If there's a taxpayer's subsidy to keep people in service, you don't want it to be made easy to fire people. Mrs Marijnissen's second question is whether it is reasonable to expect people to remain in service and not to be fired in return for subsidies. I couldn't agree more. I couldn't agree more. So I still think my own commitment last week is better than that of the cabinet, but I am very glad that they have moved, that they have started talking to each other and that they have involved the trade union movement. I also welcome the fact that more money goes to the smaller employers. That's what I mentioned here. For some companies, wage costs are, of course, the big thing, but for a lot of companies, it's in other fixed charges, the rent, the capital costs that companies have, which means they're gonna lose their head. I hope that this element of the package will also help some of those companies, including the employees of those companies. But that Mrs Marijnissen and I had a very reasonable point last week, I agree 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u85	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. I have already been able to say a few things through Mr Wilders' question, but I would very much like to know from the cabinet how we can ensure that people who are facing retirement can stop working sooner. We made a deal about that in the pension agreement, but we know that people are looking forward to it. Look at what's happening in the meat industry now. It's hard work. It would help incredibly towards the companies, but also towards those employees if you give people who are 64, 65 in that way a pleasant old age. That is also better for those companies and for the younger workers. So I would very much like to hear from the Cabinet when, no matter how fast and whether companies can incorporate that into their social plans already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u87	At least I am very happy that the PvdA is making a move. To date, everything that was about earlier stopping was not supported by the PvdA. Last week, a motion was tabled by my colleague, Mr Van Otterloo, together with Mr Graus, to Mr Wiebes, who said that he belonged to Mr Koolmees, about examining the possibilities of stopping, possibly temporarily, the reduction of the AOW age earlier, especially in these times of crisis. We would like to put this motion to the vote next Tuesday. Am I to understand that the PvdA is finally going to support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u88	I'm just gonna ignore the creeps in the appendages. Last year, when Henk Krol was still at 50PLUS, I, together with him, also argued in favour of the early retirement scheme, an early retirement pension. We also disagreed on points; I make no secret of that. But we also moved together. Think of the man who works in the meat industry: it's just more social if he can start enjoying his pension. It's not that complicated. It is actually an old promise to help those people with the heavy professions. Many times it has been said: yes, but we cannot make a list of heavy professions; that is too complicated. But a week in the corona crisis and suddenly there was a list of vital professions, quite often also the heavy professions. So let's give these people the space to enjoy their retirement when they reach that age. Then I can work a little longer, just like your former chairman of the political group. I don't have exactly what's in that 50PLUS motion for Tuesday, but it sounds good when I hear it that way. So I'm gonna take a really good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u89	I've got it with me. I'll show it to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u90	Always handy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u91	At least that's gonna save you. But I'm just trying to understand what Mr Asscher is saying. Is he just saying that this is for people with a hard job? Or can we see together that it is going to be very difficult to get back to work, because we will still have to deal with the fact that companies or sectors may shrink permanently? Then we can also think about the question of whether or not we can also take a number of people off the labour market who are very close to their pensions. Is that also the intention of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u92	That's up to me. I referred to the appointment in the pension agreement. It was about the people with the heavy professions. At the time, 800 million was earmarked for this. As far as I am concerned, this crisis gives rise to a broader view. There will also be people in whom it is not formally a heavy occupation, but who are now in danger of being dismissed differently, and for whom it is much better to make early retirement possible. So there is no blockade there as far as I am concerned. Only this was the deal last year, also from the old promise to the trade union movement to make sure that you don't hunt people who don't reach that higher AOW age. But I think there's every reason to look at that now. I've heard that from a lot of people, too. People sometimes feel almost burdened when they see that they need to be fired and that, if this happens with burden in, first out, young people or people with a young family will lose their jobs when they really would like to quit. So I hope the cabinet will say good things about that later. Mr. Chairman. The second point I wanted to hear from the cabinet is from work to work, which I have just discussed with Mr Heerma. Can we make arrangements to make sure that happens from the orbit? There is certainly a small part of the people who can organize that for themselves, but it has to be done from the job as far as I'm concerned. The third is this. I can understand that it is not in the package now, but there are sectors with specific characteristics that are particularly difficult to cope with in the recreation, in the catering sector, in the culture of which I would like a vision from the cabinet: how can they survive the crisis, how can they get stronger out of it? That's what's in individual companies or employees. I was talking to Van Weyenberg about the makers who are falling through it now, but he's also thinking about the question: what kind of cultural life do we want to have here in the Netherlands, after the corona crisis, and what do you need for that now? 'Cause if you're not careful, the message is, you're all gonna have to retrain. Then you'll have a much bigger, less fun country, and also a less rich country, in the literal and figurative meaning of the word. We have put forward proposals for this and made amendments to the Spring paper. I have previously tabled a motion with Klaas Dijkhoff to look into that. I understand that this cannot be done now in this package, but it is really important that the cabinet does not just say 'what is the worst crisis', but is talking about how to make our economy stronger. As far as I am concerned, this includes encouraging companies to make the change they have to go through when talking about sustainability. Mr. Chairman. My final point is about people who have already been hit. As so often, there is a huge group of flex workers, self-employed workers and callers who immediately flew out. It is a group for which so far there is no solution. There has been a vote on it and I know that it is being worked hard, but I would like to make a compelling appeal to look at it. Then we have to take the small risk, and I understand that that actually goes against the intuition that we are helping a self-employed person, a younger person or a caller force that might be able to improve €100. The current situation is real poverty for many people. It's not about vacations abroad that don't go on. No, it's about shoes for the kids, food and rent. Please, look at that. Let us also take the vulnerability of too flexible a labour market as a lesson. The fairy tale about all those enthusiastic entrepreneurs who choose flexibility is now out. Security for all must be the task of a forthcoming cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u93	I very much agree with the latter. We should not continue to believe in fairy tales. A great deal of connection to the assessment of the Labour Party about the packages that lie ahead. I would also like to ask a question about the longer term. We have read fine words from Mr Asscher in a beautiful manifesto. It was about how it would really be a colossal mistake to go back to that hard, cold, neoliberal thinking. The Labour Party was already critical of the CETA Convention before the Corona crisis in the House of Representatives. The party said we shouldn't. In the First Chamber we are very surprised that the Labour Senators' Party first of all overthrows the criticism of the Second Chamber of the Labour Party. Secondly, it seems as if there has been no corona crisis at all and as if the party leader has not said: boys, we should not do this anymore; just protect multinationals and not ordinary people. So what can we expect from the Labour Party? Are we really going to reject CETA or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u94	Maybe first the first part of your question: I am pleased with what you are saying. The crisis is miserable, but there are a number of looming errors that we have seen before, which we now need to address. Of course, the fact that there is cooperation in health care and a lot of things are suddenly possible cannot be done. If you say it's a market, all these institutions have to compete with each other. Those people don't want that, and it doesn't work as well. We must now dare to change that. In this case, going back to the old would really be a retrograde step. Indeed, on CETA we have very strong criticism, which has led to us not being able to support the treaty in the House of Representatives. I don't decide how to vote in the First Chamber. That's a constitutional thing. They do know our criticism. They have taken them, and that is where the debate is taking place. The cabinet must now see if it wants to continue with the risk that the treaty will not succeed, but it would not be appreciated by the people across the street if I were to say things about their voting behaviour here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u95	I totally get that. You cannot decide from the Lower House Group what the Upper House Group should do. I don't mean to be unkind, but I'm gonna have to name the following. The Labour Party sometimes has a bit of a flair against it by saying nice things on the one hand and perhaps doing other things in back rooms with the cabinet on the other. I'm just surprised. I am truly surprised that the First Members of the Labour Party are apparently so naive that they think that trade unions are going to have something to say in that CETA agreement. So either the Labour Party has the problem that it selects totally naive people for a pretty important position, which I do not think is very credible, or the First Chamber does not read the manifestos of its party leader at all. I don't think that's very credible either. So our concern is: is the Cabinet wheeled and dealt with that the Labour Party in the Lower House can say that she was critical of CETA and that it gets through through the Upper Chamber anyway? I don't think it's very good for the position of the Labour Party. We're doing great in the polls now. I'd say don't lose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u96	I really appreciate that. I was allowed to lead that party for a while, and that goes with ups and downs. Maybe you didn't miss that. It's nice when people help and pay attention that, if things are going as well, we don't screw it up ourselves. 'Cause you do that sometimes. I also understand the question because the PvdA does change its position sometimes. Now you're all gonna yell o and a, but that happens sometimes. The world changes, you have to talk about it, and then you come to a decision. I didn't really like your question, because I do understand it. There was also a question that was actually more about me. The fact that Mr Wilders does not read my essays is a wake-up call, but I will get over it. But if my colleagues in the party do not read them, that would be a shame. I can reassure you: they are not naive and they read the stories I send them. And then they'll find something of their own. That's what happens in one of those parties. There was also a question as to whether there is anything else going on here. Isn't something sneaky happening here? At least I can answer that question for myself. Did I happen to be in a back room? No. I have never actually talked to Minister Kaag about this, although I think that would be great fun. But I don't have any appointments about it. I myself think it would be wise not to vote in favour of that treaty now. We didn't do that here. I think that should also apply in the First Chamber, but that is up to them. That also has its function and its value. But thank you for the question and the support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. Mr Van Weyenberg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u98	Back a little bit, though. I read an interview with Mr Asscher in which, in line with Mr Heerma, I wondered what it was. We can differ on the discharge; I think there is something very nice about this now that the Minister has been talking about for a week. But in that interview, Mr Asscher really said: if that dismissal penalty is not changed, then I am voting against it. Is that really what Mr Asscher was planning? Was he going to say to those 2 million workers: I did not get what I wanted at one point, and then I am voting against aid for 2 million workers who can keep their jobs? That threat doesn't really fit the Labour Party as I know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u99	It is becoming very special now, when everyone is so concerned about what does and does not belong to the Labour Party. With the Labour Party you should stand up for the rights of working people: employees, self-employed people, flexers. And yes, I think it is quite right that there should be a large support package to keep people working. That is what I said in the first round and also in the second round. But no, I thought it was a colossal mistake to say: delete the fine, because that's better. It's an assessment. The Minister said this is my assessment. I made a different assessment. This does not mean that I am voting in favour of it. If you want to achieve something, it's useful to make it clear that you think it's important. So I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u100	I would like to give Mr Asscher the opportunity to present his own point of view, but that article really said that he was going to vote against otherwise. My point remains. You may disagree on that measure. The Minister and today the unions are convinced that you can let go of them, because then as many people as possible can benefit from labour costs subsidies and as many jobs as possible are preserved. There is now a guarantee that you must have contact with the trade union movement and not ignore it when it comes to more than 20 employees. I think that's very sensible. But that's different from the fine there was. So again my question: is it really the line of the PvdA to vote against a whole package, that in more than a million workers, 2 million people at the moment, make sure that they keep their jobs if they do not get what they want at one point? That's more like the style of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u101	Gradually it gets a little weird, you know, how the coalition is now a little weepy about the image that has arisen. Imagine opposition parties wanting something different and not voting for everything. That's our job! We are the representatives of the people. I want to change things. I'm incredibly worried about the effect of canceling that fine. I don't love what's in there, but I think it's better than what was in there. I really think, guys, go do your own job. You could have said: maybe they have a point with the opposition, and maybe Asscher and Marijnissen are right to be worried about that. You could have said that. Instead, I see Mr Van Weyenberg tweeting day and night that we should be so grateful that Koolmees pays all these salaries. No, we'll all pay for it! We all pay them out of taxpayers' money paid by working people in the private and public sectors. And yes, I like that. That's my job. I am from the Labour Party; I stand up for that. Really, if you're gonna worry about the fact that I'm not saying in advance, I support it, even though I think it has to be different... That's our job. It's in our collective agreement here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u102	It was precisely the Labour Party that I expected them to stand up for labor. And it was a threat to tell 2 million employees that I'm not paying your salary anymore. I thought that was a weird threat. Minister Asscher would have thought that was a strange threat. I see that Mr Asscher is now reacting very badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u103	Well, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u104	Let me end positive: I think the style today is a lot better than in the interview in De Telegraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u105	The Labour Party is indeed standing up for working people. I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg saw it and recognised it. I also find the report figures he wants to give out per interview very good and very interesting. My appeal would be: let us use this period, which I think is more important than the grief that Mr Van Weyenberg felt about an interview with me, not to be divided, but to keep people working. I am doing my job for that, and I think Mr Van Weyenberg is doing his job in his own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u106	Exactly, and with division there are no such threats; they do not fit Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u107	Again, when my mother says things don't fit me, I'm gonna listen to them very carefully. With Mr Van Weyenberg, I'm gonna put it right next to me. I do my job my way. I think I'm doing my opposition, even in the corona crisis, hard but also fair. So I say what I'm in favour of and I say what I'm against. I thought this was a colossal mistake; it wasn't fixed as I would have fixed it myself. But I am very pleased, and I think it is wise that the Minister and the unions have reached a different agreement on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS considers the second comprehensive package of measures presented broadly robust and appropriate. But we do have a question. What signal value for the economy, what criteria and what pass-through did this cabinet decide to remove that discharge? Because it is an essential policy change. And, of course, as colleagues have said, there is a safety net for protection against dismissal and compensation for dismissal. However, this safety net has been seriously weakened by the Labour Market Act, and especially for the elderly. As far as we're concerned, they're outlaws. What do you really have to offer all those people, young and old, who are threatened with dismissal? Last week, in the debate on supplementary budgets on emergency measures, 50PLUS strongly advocated the promotion of maintaining as much activity as possible: anything to keep the economy on its feet, and ultimately to keep as many jobs as possible. We understand very well that companies without turnover or with a firm decimated turnover are not able to keep everyone in service, especially if they also have to pay part of the wage costs. After all, it has to come from the length or width. And who's gonna help if companies go bankrupt? No one at all. But as far as 50PLUS is concerned, the most important thing is that we all, together, come out of this crisis as strongly as possible. This means that not everything is on the board of the employers, but also not on the board of the workers. As far as we are concerned, therefore, more tailor-made work is needed. So why don't we turn things around? Last week, the PvdA said: why don't we set up this scheme so that employers are not allowed to fire employees in principle or they will be fined unless they show that bankruptcy is imminent? In the opinion of 50PLUS, this is the golden middle route, which in the longer term provides the best service to employees, entrepreneurs, the economy and, not least, the Dutch state treasury. That's got to be our goal, right? 50PLUS would like to make a number of additional suggestions which, as far as we are concerned, could strengthen the package. We are formally in favour of a return clause under the same conditions of employment for once redundant workers, applying the principle of reflection, in case the weather improves. Give these people a job guarantee certificate for the better times. For income support up to the social minimum, remove the unfair distinction in capital requirements for AOW-holders and non-AOW-holders self-employed entrepreneurs in the AIO and the Tozo respectively. This is age discrimination and really not explainable. Take a good look at what a possible temporary reduction in the age of AOW or early retirement can mean for maintaining and restoring employment. As I said, during the debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs we tabled a motion on this subject. We had to keep it until we could discuss it with the Minister of Social Affairs. As far as we are concerned, this is the moment. We would like to put it to the vote next Tuesday. The €600 support for flex workers has also been mentioned before. That's far too little for a lot of agency workers, isn't it? This puts a generation behind schedule, reduces consumption and is bad for the economy. Give them the right to more protection. So temporarily extend the WW conditions. The Corona training effort of the Empire, I have just mentioned, amounts to less than €265 per unemployed person if 10% of the people were to be dismissed. Now tackle the from-work-to-work pathways, the flow towards employment opportunities and training more sustainable. Look at the Swedish model. As far as we are concerned, now is the time. Is this unfairness of the starting date for entrepreneurs who have just begun to resolve, in such a way that anyone who has damage due to corona can make use of the NOW scheme? Let me get this straight. Last but not least, 50PLUS looks at the lobby with lean eyes to transfer the transition fee to the State. State aid for the transition fee! It shouldn't get much crazier. We want a commitment that this government will never cooperate in this. Finally, do not give up most of the state aid after September. If we pull the IV out of the patient prematurely, the whole treatment has been for nothing. Large support should continue as long as there are contact-limiting measures. The Central Planning Bureau also assumes this in economic scenarios. We do not see anything about this in the letter from the cabinet. We would like a commitment on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u111	Madam President. It is good that the cabinet continues to support companies, including the new package. I am also pleased with the joint path found by the cabinet with the polder. That's profit. I was pleasantly surprised by the conditions imposed by this cabinet in this crisis on companies eligible for individual support: reciprocity, the principles of the Rhineland model and long-term value creation. In doing so, we make it clear that there is a difference between responsible business and less responsible business. How does the cabinet work out these some general terms and conditions? How are these conditions tested in concrete terms when companies knock in the coming months? Mr. Chairman. The choice of reciprocity and the Rhineland model also call for a longer-term impact. Twelve years ago in the financial crisis, the government saved banks. In this crisis the government keeps flex workers on track, companies get support and the government re-emerges as an insurer: a mutual insurance of all of us. When I say "government" and "state aid," I'm talking about all of us and our taxpayers' money. Where such a massive appeal to collective solidarity is made, we must also talk about conditions and reciprocity. Someone just said: this corona crisis is actually as a contrast liquid in our economy, because we now see very well what is vulnerable, what is wrong and what needs to be cured. We are now seeing great vulnerability in the labour market. People with flexible jobs have no more certainty than the support of the government. There are recommendations from the Borstlap Committee to address this great vulnerability. Is that what the cabinet's gonna do? We also see vulnerability in companies. Where we are all now wholeheartedly prepared to support responsible entrepreneurs and save the jobs of their employees, there is sometimes grasshoppers in our economy too. There are companies with low capital, which are mainly good for shareholders, where the summit is richly rewarded and ordinary workers are paid minimally and have little say in the matter. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, we should work towards fair and clear conditions for possible support in a future crisis and, on the basis of conditions relating to the wage building, solvency, participation, sustainability and imvo, we should distinguish between goats and shelves, irresponsible and responsible business. As far as we are concerned, we come to something that we might call the National Mortgage Warranty by analogy with the National Mortgage Warranty. Is the Cabinet prepared to investigate that? Back to the package that is now before us. The Rhineland model also means that you now dare to lay down trust and responsibility in society. However, we still hear from the cabinet very digitally that one sector may open from a given date and the other one may not. Is there no need for more customisation and more trust in the creativity and common sense of entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u112	Appreciate the argument that looks a little bit wider than just this crisis and is also about how we should move forward and how we should make sure that the companies that only benefit will do something back? But I think we should not look too far ahead of the next crisis. It is also a question of what we can do in this crisis. In the end, the whole idea is that we all pay taxes in the Netherlands. That's how we take care of each other. Those big companies must therefore also pay their fair share. We have put forward a number of proposals for this. One is: make sure it's a loan for the biggest companies and not a gift. We can also ensure that corporate tax at least does not go down and rather increases. We can make sure that companies that make profits pay fairly. We can close even more tax avoidance routes. Does the Christian Union see that these are really the steps that we should take in this crisis and that we should not wait for the next one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u113	As I said, this coalition, and with it myself as a co-negotiator, would be inadequate if it were said that we are doing nothing and that we would only do something. Tax avoidance is being tackled, the cabinet is really taking steps. When it comes to burden burdens, citizens' burdens are reduced. Businesses are more likely to be burdened. If you look at the table on burden development in the coalition agreement, you will indeed see that citizens have a mark on it. So we're already taking steps. Would I like to take any more steps? Yeah, I'd like that. If you look at capital charges and labour charges, I would really like a further correction. But that will really have to be done gradually. I want to take those steps. The cabinet is taking new steps in this package compared to the first package, when it comes to terms and conditions. So I think it goes in the right direction every time. Do I want more? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u114	The world is changing at a rapid pace. When you see how much support and how much money goes to companies, to locusts, as you call them, companies that empty companies in good times and take the money to shareholders, but now they have no money to take care of themselves and now they say to society: can we catch for a moment? That calls for a very bold approach. You cannot say on the one hand: we are throwing billions into the economy at once, but we are trying to get it back on the other side step by step. We all know that this price will eventually have to be paid, because otherwise it will end up with society, with the people who work in healthcare. I should like to hear more specifically from Mr Segers how he sees it that we have these companies in the autumn. I would have preferred to have them paid for this crisis already in this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u115	The purpose of the cabinet with this package is to save jobs. We want to try to save the jobs of people who are now extremely insecure. We want to give them the helping hand. That's the goal. This means that you largely come up with generic measures that benefit businesses in a generic way. Where is the inconvenience of Mr. Klaver and me? That there are companies in there that you think are: shit, it's about real jobs of real people that I want to help, but up there are people who have behaved irresponsiblely. That's allowed, that's all within the limits of the law. So I cannot say anything about this legally, but I think it is a bit morally important. For what we all feel is irresponsible, I would like us to now indicate more precisely for the future what we mean by this and how we will make a distinction with responsible entrepreneurship next time. Then I am really talking about a guarantee next time that will save us the discussion we are discussing about how we can make conditions or not. If you set clear conditions now, you'll know next time what the price of not meeting those conditions is. In this respect, we have not been able to anticipate the conditions that we would now be setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u116	With this, Mr Segers actually says that we need to be clear about what companies should, as it were, stick to. But we already had a social contract. That was watered down, but it's not like we didn't have a social contract: an agreement that, when the economy grows, everyone should benefit from it. That was watered down over the past few years, but it's not like we didn't have that deal. No, the execution of those appointments, that went wrong. We can go back on that old deal. That only calls for the use of new policies, to say simply: this autumn we are not going to reduce corporate tax. In fact, if supermarkets make huge profits because no one goes out to eat and everyone is cooking themselves, then it makes sense that they pay more taxes so that we can help catering shops a little extra. So it's a little too easy for me to say: for another crisis we need to make those agreements. No, we know what the deal is: we take care of each other, we believe in solidarity. This means that we are simply taxing the companies that are now making huge profits. That's actually pretty simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u117	I think there is a difference here between Mr Klaver and me. Where from that angle of the Chamber there is more often a distinction between companies and people, I look at companies like companies of people. It's about people, about jobs. So I don't distinguish between companies and people, I distinguish between responsible behavior and less responsible behavior. Something that's legal, that's allowed. Only in extraordinary times like now, where the government has to step in as it did with banks 12 years ago, and as we now do in an unprecedented way by providing security to people, the government is becoming an insurer that I say we have not yet thought through. We have a legal framework for what's allowed and what's not allowed. I do not know whether this extraordinary circumstance may repeat itself in a number of years, I hope that it will take a very long time, or that there will be a second pandemic or a very deep recession. If it repeats itself in this way and if we have to take such excessive, extreme steps, then I want the conditions to be clear in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr Aartsen, then Mr Van Weyenberg and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u119	I would like to talk about the social value of small and medium-sized enterprises, of entrepreneurs. Mr Segers said that this crisis is a contrast to see what is wrong. I wonder how big he sees these contrasts and how big they are in his opinion, because I think that Mr Segers is making it a little bigger than it might be in practice. Yeah, there are companies that aren't right. Large companies are often cited, but 99.3% of all Dutch companies are small and medium-sized enterprises. Those are companies that give an average of €5,000 a year to sponsor the football club, the band and you name it. I ask Mr Segers whether he does not ignore all these types of companies, by far the largest part, by putting this so prominently now. Isn't that very unfair in relation to all those companies that currently have the water in their mouths?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u120	If that's the impression, I'd really like to take it away. Then I'm glad to be able to take that away from you because of this interruption. The vast majority of it is good and responsible. Those are real people with heart for the cause. They only want one thing, namely that their employees keep their jobs. That was also what my interruption with Mr Asscher last week was about: are you not assuming very much bad faith? He looked at that a little differently. So I'm assuming the vast majority that's good and that's really good business. So I am talking about grasshoppers' behaviour, about private equity funds, about companies that have recently paid hundreds of millions to managers and shareholders and are now knocking on the door for support. That wrings; that hurts. But what doesn't hurt... I mean, we all feel it, but what I really do and what I wholeheartedly support are the unprecedented measures taken by this cabinet to meet exactly the entrepreneurs you are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u121	I welcome Mr Segers' reply. So we conclude with each other that we are really only talking about zero point so much percent of the companies we are talking about in the Netherlands. I think it is good to highlight that, also because the danger of this discussion is that we are going to lay down all kinds of conditions. You mentioned international social enterprise. I know a lot of vegetable farmers, dress shops and you name it, who do not save the rainforest everywhere, but which are very important for the local community, for their own village and for their own people. I think that with these discussions we should also be careful to lay down all kinds of conditions that will make these small entrepreneurs immediately piss off because they cannot participate in all the conditions of the Hague, because they simply have added value in their own village.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u122	We're gonna formulate the terms so that all these....what are they and what do you call them? It covers hard-working Dutch people. I remember very well Mr Dijkhoff's contribution to the General Reviews. He was talking about Philips. That appeals to him and me, because we are both supporters of a certain football club in Eindhoven. That was an employer who felt responsible for the housing. You had the Philips village there. It was an employer who was extremely social. In his contribution, a kind of homesickness or desire for that business and a restoration of that mentality sounded. That's exactly the Rhineland model. That is exactly the form of employership that we would very much like to maintain. If the need is for the man, we're really gonna take another step. We want to help them, but the companies that move that money very quickly to.. what are they? foreign shareholders or all kinds of funds... It's okay, but then you take the risk and don't expect us to spend hard-earned taxpayers' money on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u123	I am glad that Mr Segers is explaining this, because a lot of small catering entrepreneurs who are now in the water are thinking about people with a clothing shop and cultural entrepreneurs: I hope that this is not really about me. Mr Segers has just confirmed that. I do have a question: how do you prevent this from becoming a kind of paper tiger? I would like to prevent us now from trying to create something for another crisis, but leaving it as far as I am concerned. If there are things that we say we do not think are moral, then the example of a number of companies that are avoiding tax, do Mr Segers and I should never think about future aid as an alternative to simply changing the laws now? Let us now do something about all kinds of unwanted constructions in the labour relations. Let us now do something against all kinds of tax structures, so that some locusts, as Mr Segers calls it, do not actually pay taxes. I understand the inconvenience, but this reflection on the future crisis must never be the alternative to limiting, for example, tax structures or exploitation of people in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u124	One hundred percent once. We have also made good agreements on this in the coalition agreement. That's a start. Mr. Klaver asked: shouldn't you go any further? My answer was yes. So one hundred percent once. So this does not relieve us of our responsibility here and now. This package runs until October 1st. If there is indeed a further extension, a new package or a new reflection, then these questions are even more prominent on the table. So yes, we will have to think about that. I think we are not very far from each other in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u125	Last question, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr Segers attaches it very much to the support. Again, I think we all have the companies in mind where that inconvenience is and which we helped to save the jobs. Only when it comes to pricing pollution, tax avoidance and so on could I see it separately from that aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u127	Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr Segers's underlying point is not the support, but that in a very small group of companies, let us continue to emphasise this, are business practices which we both do not consider moral and undesirable and which, as far as I am concerned, call for legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u129	What Mr Van Weyenberg is saying is: in fact, you have to minimize the gap between what is morally reprehensible and what is not permitted by law. I said, there are things that are legally possible. For example, you may empty your business and transfer as much as possible to your shareholders elsewhere. It's okay. That space between what we really think is morally undersized and what is legally possible just now, you need to make it as small as possible. So any proposal that narrows that hole, I will support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr. Azarkan, you too, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u131	Is it time again, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u132	How honorable of you to keep it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u133	Well, Mr Asscher scores the highest with the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u134	Oh, yeah? He's done talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr Segers began by saying that the corona crisis acts as a kind of contrast fluid: we see what is wrong. Can he tell us what cases he found on the basis of that contrast liquid? So what's wrong? And what has Mr Segers done to deal with this in this package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u136	If your boat's leaking, you'll have to close the hole first and then hoist. I talked about the labour market and the huge number of people with a flexible contract, with flexible work, who live in enormous uncertainty and suddenly fall back to €1,500 and depend on government boarding. That contrast fluid's gonna blow through there. I think that's a huge imbalance. I indicated that the Borstlap Committee looked at this extensively and said: you should do something about it; you should reduce the gap between fixed and flex. I think it's really very prominent on the cabinet's plate to make real work of that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u137	Proceed, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u138	Sure, work to be done. As far as the ChristianUnion Group is concerned, a vulnerability to the allowance in fixed charges remains the demarcation of SBI codes. It's kind of arbitrary sometimes. Because what frustration if you, as an entrepreneur, are just sitting on the edge of this arrangement. For example, the catering industry does invade, but a cleaning company that, as a supplier, is dependent on the catering industry, is not. The hairdresser is covered, but the wholesaler that supplies hairdressers does not. It is precisely for the manufacturing industry, the backbone of our economy and often suppliers in the chain that the scheme offers no relief. In that light, the Christian Union Group had hoped more for the implementation of the motion tabled by Mr Heerma and I. How does this second emergency package help SMEs and family businesses, where labour costs are not always the biggest cost? Can the Minister promise that the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands, RVO, will remain open to tailor-made work on these fringes? Can an entrepreneur knock on the door of the RVO? Can he pick up the phone, present and explain his situation and plead his case? Is that possible? Madam President. I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his commitment to flex workers and the safety net for flex workers, the so-called TOFA, the temporary bridging regime. It's still to be worked out. That's quite a search. It is a good thing that students are included, or at least could benefit from it. That is a group that we must not forget in this crisis either. I look forward to further elaboration. Finally, Madam President. On another point, too, I see homework for the cabinet. The Minister of Social Affairs will have a lot on his plate. The announcement that we need to retrain and train is promising. But it shouldn't just be about promises. What are we going to do in this area in concrete terms? Are the training and development funds available for this purpose? And will it finally be possible to deploy these cross-sectoral measures so that genuine retraining can be made possible to health care or to a technical profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u139	Thank you. Mr Aartsen has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr President, thank you. In addition to the enormous misery that Corona has caused for the health of many tens of thousands of people in the Netherlands, Corona also touches a lot of our entrepreneurs. That's why my entrepreneurial heart hurts. A couple who had just taken the adventure together to start a diner but had to close the doors again after three days, the director of a coach company that is proudly at the head of his family business but whose buses are currently standing still, or that local shopkeeper who has been looking at an empty shopping street for weeks: they are hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who feared, and still fear, for the survival of their life's work. This life's work hides jobs and families. For them, the cabinet already came up with a first support package. Now there is a second support package, aimed at SMEs, where by far the majority of Dutch work. Entrepreneurs will be compensated for more labour costs in the new package. This was not enough in the first package. For example, in the catering and recreation sectors, entrepreneurs had to recoup thousands of euros each month from their own savings account to keep people in service. And then it's quick. I'm glad this has improved. Although we would all like no one to lose their jobs in this crisis, we have to face the fact that, unfortunately, that cannot be the case. You'll only be a small entrepreneur, with five people employed, and really can't keep your head above water. Then you're facing a diabolical dilemma that really wakes you up at night. Then one employee who should leave the company can make the difference between bankruptcy and survival with the four others. It is therefore good for all those small entrepreneurs and their employees that the dismissal penalty in this proposal disappears. Mr. Chairman. More companies are slowly opening up, but that does not mean that they are out of trouble at the moment. If you can only have half of your old terrace open or if only 30 people can sit in your cinema room, that's not gonna be profitable for most companies. And yet they open. They don't do that for themselves, but they do that for us, for us as a society, because I think a lot of people are looking forward to that cold beer on the terrace right now or having a nice movie with your partner during a night away, but we have to continue to support those entrepreneurs. The VVD is therefore also pleased with the increase in fixed charges to €50,000. These are all improvements, but we must continue to recognise that the difference between what we come up with here in The Hague, the Hague drawing board, and what we are doing in the real world, so the practice, is still great. That is understandable, and I do not think that we should be very sorry, but we must keep adjusting as a political one. The cabinet must remain open to the problems encountered in practice by entrepreneurs. A number of bottlenecks in this practice have already reached us. A great concern of the VVD lies with those larger middle companies, often family businesses with hundreds of people employed, so to speak, between the vegetable farmer and the multinational. And these seem to fall between shore and ship in this package. Is the cabinet prepared to talk specifically to these groups to see what could be a solution to this? Another concern that entrepreneurs currently care about is that they have to pay back money because the different schemes bite each other, so you're going to get a letter from the UWV that you have to pay back your NOW money because the TOGS or TVL counts as sales. And I don't think that's the point. You can only spend a euro once as an entrepreneur: either on the salary of that employee or on the rent of your property. Can the Cabinet see how it can take away this bottleneck? Entrepreneurs are currently going crazy with uncertainty and uncertainty. They have questions like: why does my bowling alley fall under indoor sports and not under the catering industry or may I, as a beach tent holder, allow people who walk in the dunes and are not sitting on my terrace, also into my toilet building without getting that fine immediately? The more things open again, the more questions there are with entrepreneurs. My question to the cabinet is: where can entrepreneurs specifically address these questions in the coming period? I think it is a good thing that we give this certainty to those entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr Aartsen of the VVD has the heart of entrepreneurs, which is good to hear. Only, which I don't hear about, are the almost 1.5 millionzzp'ers who know the Netherlands. This morning, in a morning newspaper, I believe De Telegraaf, that 400,000 of thosezzp'ers, by introducing a partner test, one in three has a partner with income, often at minimum level, actually get nothing and lose everything. How right is your entrepreneurial heart when these people say: this is unfair, we are not getting anything now and it should happen but nobody listens to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u142	I think that is an annoying, but justifiable measure. If before the crisis azzp'er lost his assignments, so not because of corona, he had to fall back on welfare. That means we said to thatzzp'er: for the first thirteen weeks, you can be on your buffer. We're not doing that right now. We said to thatzzp'er, "You can eat your savings first." We're not doing that right now. We said to thatzzp'er, "You have to eat your pension first." We're not doing that right now. We said to thatzzp'er, "You have to eat your house first." We're not doing that right now. The fact that it is a retrograde step towards the package that was there is certainly, but we will also have to ask for a little bit of reciprocity in these benefits and those schemes slowly, step by step. So is it unfortunate that after three months of support something has changed? Of course, but I think that is justified, also in relation to all those people who are currently in the welfare system and who have had to meet the conditions. What's even more important to me is that we don't drop thosezzp'ers. You can ask the mortgage provider for a stay. You can postpone your tax return. You can also apply for that loan of €10,000. So you don't have to create the image thatzzp'ers are getting nothing in this package right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u143	A long answer, but I understand that the VVD actually thinks that they should be happy that they don't have to eat their house, that they should be happy that they don't get a penny more and get a supplement if their partner income is below the social minimum. None of that is an answer that these people will be satisfied with. There are also a lot of workers who, by the way, are not eligible for WW with the stricter WW requirements, but who, if they are made redundant, go directly to the assistance. I'm talking about thosezzp'ers in a lot of companies, whether that's the concern or the automation, anywhere. Those companies employ people and they havezzp'ers. Imagine, they do the same work. Up to three times that employee, whose company receives help from the government, gets 100% paid out, and that colleague, who is azzp'er, who has been hired, gets nothing at all. One gets three modes, 100% paid by his employer, and that zzp'er gets nothing at all. That wasn't someone who was already on welfare, no, it was someone who worked, and who had to stop working because of government measures. And you're not gonna give him anything right now. That's unfair. If you actually have a heart for those entrepreneurs as a party, the VVD, then you say: delete that partner test, at least as long as the crisis lasts. As long as they're in the government with restrictions, we're gonna cancel that partner test. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u144	Two things Mr Wilders says are wrong. That's that thezzp'ers should be happy. Then let me say here, right now I don't think anyone's happy. This is certainly not a time when we should be happy, because at the moment it is just trouble and torment. Whether you're an entrepreneur, whether you're a flex worker, or you're an entrepreneur, everybody's having a hard time. Let's not put these people against each other either, I'd like to say. The second thing that Mr Wilders is saying is that we are not doing anything. I just mentioned that is a long answer, that's right, but I thought it was just as important to say what we did and what we still do. That's not self-evident, we still do, just to get thosezzp'ers through it. I think those are also the measures to ensure that they do not fall over. But the most important thing, in my opinion, is that we are now going to see how we can get thosezzp'ers back to work in other sectors as well. How can we retrain them to sectors where there is work? I think that's the only real thing you're gonna help thosezzp'ers get back to work and start doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u145	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u146	The VVD is dropping thosezzp'ers hard. 'Cause you're not doing anything for them. You don't do anything for them when it comes to their income. The employer, if covered by the scheme, will be reimbursed up to 90% of the wage costs three times and the employee himself will be reimbursed 100% of his salary. And that zzp'er, who has always paid a decent tax, gets nothing if he has a partner who has €1.550 in income. The newspaper is full of people, you have no doubt also received letters saying: my fixed charges are even higher than that. You don't do anything for those people. The VVD I had hoped to find them on my side to delete that partner test.They let down the zzp'ers and leave them completely in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u147	I do not agree with Mr Wilders. We're gonna make sure thosezzp'ers don't have to eat their savings first. They'll get that benefit. We're gonna get them to postpone the permanent charges of their own private home. And we make sure that they can also get extra support, with €10,000 loan from the government. That's what we do with each other. Is that a nice measure? No, definitely not. But I do think he can be defended against the rest of the people who are having a hard time right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u148	About the latter, it's a terrible time and everything is being done. But the contrast is great. We have proposed that large multinationals should pay back the support they receive, but according to the VVD this cannot be done. All this has an impact, and we must be very supportive of these multinationals. Now you say here very proudly: yes, but there is a loan thatzzp'ers can take, we also have €10,000 you can borrow. I'd like to turn it around. I would say: let's make sure that everyzzp'er individually gets that contribution, so no partner test, and give those big companies a loan. They'll be able to pay it back easily. I don't understand why the VVD wants you to turn that around. Because if you really want to stand up for those entrepreneurs, then it doesn't have to be for those people in those high towers, it's about thosezzp'ers trying to earn their money day in, day out, and they're getting hit hard right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u149	The annoying thing about what Mr Klaver does is that he keeps turning people against each other. I don't think that's really appropriate at this time of year. He says we do this forzzp'ers and we do it for those companies. If a zzp'er rents a property, he can be compensated for the fixed charges. It's all packages stacking. Forzzp'ers, we do a few things. You do a little bit too much about it, but thezzp'ers I speak and who used that loan are very often very happy about it. Is it ideal? No, but this whole crisis isn't ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u150	The VVD here somewhat sinks through the ice as an entrepreneurial party. You list every time what does happen forzzp'ers, but let's also stick to the facts. So far, Zzp'ers have just been eligible for aid, but that is not going to happen. If you have a working partner as azzp'er, then the support just goes away, completely. Let's be honest about that. The contrast is indeed very great, because at the same time the cabinet, your cabinet, still intends to reduce the tax even further for the big companies that make profits with whom things are going well. The tax on profits has to be reduced even further. If you are in favour of those entrepreneurs, then it would not be a good idea for the VVD to say: well, we are not doing that for the companies that are already making profits, which are already big, but we are going to help thezzp'er who, whether forced or not, often has to work hard, through the crisis. And we're not saying, if you have a working partner, you figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u151	We don't say to thezzp'er: if you have a working partner, you figure it out. I referred to the tax deferral and the mortgage payment. The second package contains all kinds of new conditions. It will do you good that we also tell companies that use the NOW that they should not pay bonuses, that they should not pay dividends, that they should not buy their own shares. I sincerely believe that in the second package we are asking for a bit of reciprocity from each group. And that's something I think can be defended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u152	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u153	Mr President, I should like to close. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet will and must continue to work for entrepreneurs to help them through the day, the week and the month. But I actually want to conclude with a call to get each other through the crisis together. Yeah, you might be entitled to that fat bonus as a top man, according to your contract. But you don't have to. Yeah, according to the contract, you have the right, as landlord, to have your tenant pay the full price. But you don't have to. Yeah, you're entitled to your holiday money, but maybe you can do it later or in bits and pieces if that helps your entrepreneur. And yes, you have a formal right to get money back if your vacation doesn't go on, but you can also accept that voucher. I think that's one way of getting each other through this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr Aartsen said at the beginning of his speech that he was pleased that the dismissal penalty is off the table, but, if I understand correctly, there is now an anti-abuse regime. If I interpret it a little well between 10:00 and now, that goes as follows. If you have to fire more than 20 employees and you have not agreed with the unions, you will pay a fine on everything for which you have applied for support. Suppose you have a family business that Mr. Aartsen just mentioned, and you've applied for support for, say, 325 employees. You're gonna have to fire 25 of them. Then you pay 5% penalty over the entire support package you received for 325 employees. How does Mr Aartsen feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u155	I read the letter this morning. Mr Stoffer skips a bit. It's said that if you fire less than 20 people... Let's face it, that's just a tragedy for entrepreneurs. That's what keeps them awake at night. I haven't met one entrepreneur who was cheering that he could fire people now, because they often feel like family. But if you wanted to fire more than 20 people because you have to and you can't do otherwise, you'd have to talk to the unions first. If you don't get out of there, there's another step in there. That is mediation in my view with the Labour Foundation; I look at the Minister, who nods yes. So there are still a few steps in between. In my view, this 5% fine is intended precisely for the bad guys, let me just say, the non-decent companies that say to the trade unions and the Foundation of Labour: figure it out. I believe that this is the purpose of the fine and the main objective is to ensure that you treat people in a decent way, even if you have to say goodbye to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u156	I may have read the letter a little less tightly than Mr Aartsen, but the point remains. If that entrepreneur eventually has to create 25 and he did not get out with the STAR, according to Mr Aartsen then he is a crook, which I do not think is too bad because no one wants to get rid of his people, then he will pay a 5% penalty for all those people for whom he has applied for support, that is 325 people. So that's what the VVD thinks is right? Shouldn't that be in proportion anymore, so for those 25?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u157	In my opinion, Mr Asscher was very good at saying that this is a good package, and that you are going to get through this crisis with each other instead of facing each other. Would we have thought of it that way if we had a blank A4? I think the VVD would have done it differently. Is it a good proposal, which I think we will get through this crisis with each other? I think so, because I think you want to have that conversation with each other in a reasonable way. I hope it doesn't happen, and I can hardly imagine that both the trade unions and the Labour Foundation are saying to a company: well, if you don't fire those people, then you're going bankrupt. I do not think that will happen, and I do not hope that it will happen, because that is not the way we should get through the crisis with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u158	Clear. I'm actually curious what would have been on that blank A4', if the VVD had had that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mr President, how long is my speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u160	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u161	The first package was put together very quickly. I've seen a lot of entrepreneurs who've seen black snow. I think it makes sense, then, for you to set a number of conditions in order to keep things as much as possible. But this is a package where you take a next step. I just mentioned an example of someone who employs five people. An entrepreneur like that is awake. Just to protect the jobs of those four others and to keep them up, you sometimes have to decide to say goodbye to that one employee. Then I think the proposal that has now been made is reasonable, so that we can get out of the crisis in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u162	I want to look with the VVD at a more structural solution, at a change that is necessary as far as we are concerned. It's about jobs. Now jobs are pretty expensive. The tax on labour is high. We could change that. In return, you can tax pollution and scarce raw materials. I think that is a good liberal principle: you don't let someone else take the fall for your pollution. The VVD has always held off a bit so far, but if there is a time to make sure that jobs are just a little less expensive, then it is now. If, in return, we also implement the liberal 'polluter pays' principle, is the VVD more open in the debates that are still under way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u163	For tax reduction for the salary that people get on their account, the VVD is generally always poke. But Mrs Ouwehand says this is the perfect timing, and I disagree with her. We are currently in perhaps the biggest crisis since the Second World War. Currently, jobs are under pressure and companies are under pressure. I personally find it a very bad time to talk about taxes and tax increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u164	Thank you. Mr Heerma still has to do, Mrs Ouwehand. You're gonna stay on the interrupting microphone? That's good. Maybe you'll start with your question right away? It might be good to know that after Mr Heerma we are going to suspend for lunch. I call Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The impact of this corona crisis is unprecedented. The exact extent, depth and length of the economic damage is still difficult to predict, but that it is going to be large, in my opinion no one really doubts it anymore. With this second package, the cabinet again takes responsibility for preventing unimaginable damage to the economy. But there is also the harsh reality. That harsh reality is that despite the heavy package, the tens of billions that are being spent, there are entrepreneurs who can barely keep their heads above water, and there are people, like the man from the Louis Asscher supermarket, who really have concerns about their jobs and about their future. Against this background, I find the harshness of the discussion that has taken place over the last few weeks on the dismissal penalty surprising. We must also be careful in this house to paint the picture as if there is a magic wand here, as if all those entrepreneurs, all those people, could be assured that nothing is going to change. That's why I think it's worth a compliment to the polder. While it might have been the easiest time for employers and employees to end up in the pits where they have been too much in recent years and point to politics, they have taken the responsibility to contribute to improvements to the package. They have also looked forward to contributing to the way in which as much from job to job security as possible can be created in the coming period. However, when I look at the package and at the huge amounts, I also care: how long do we keep this up with each other? When is the end of the buffer that the government has reached, while the crisis is not yet over? So I would also like to have a reflection on the state of public finances. In what way can this be maintained? I also ask for this reflection against the risk of a second wave, which we have discussed with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health in recent weeks in the Corona debates. I would also like to have a reflection from these ministers or one of them on what is happening now in order to avoid the worst scenario in a second wave, namely a new lockdown. What is being done in preparation to ensure that when the virus re-emerged and there was a great wave of infections, economics and society can continue to run as much as possible? I have been here a great deal in the past as Social Affairs spokesman, often in debates with Minister Asscher. I often had discussions with him, but also with Minister Koolmees, about the distortion of our labour market. The Work and Security Act but also the Labour Market Act in balance have made efforts and improvements to restore that balance. However, that feeling remains, I have also discussed during General Political Reviews, that the most vulnerable in the labour market, the flex workers, thezzp'ers at the bottom, sometimes fakezzp'ers, are the cushions of our economic situation and that they can take the hit if things go wrong. In this context, I wonder whether the Minister for Social Affairs can indicate what the agreements contained in this morning's letter are going to mean for the implementation of the very important advice of the Borstlap Commission on how to bring that labour market back into balance and to prevent the people at the bottom of the labour market from continuing to take the hits. The same applies to education. This is covered in the letter of last week's aid package, but it is now being supplemented. The real shaping of work-by-work paths, training, deploying the R&D fund, I think part-time WW can contribute to this, so that people can actually move from a job to a new job, rather than from unemployment. I would like to conclude with one final point following an interview I read in NRC last Saturday. It was a rather passionate interview with entrepreneur Willem van der Veegte, not Wim, but his son, in which he spoke passionately about the family business, with roots and care for his employees. One thing really stuck with me. That was the urge to continue to shape the manufacturing industry in the Netherlands and the anger over unfair competition with China and other low-wage countries. That brought me back to a motion that I once tabled with the PvdA in a debate with Minister Asscher, to give reshoring more shape again and to ensure that production that has disappeared to low-wage countries brings back to the Netherlands. In fact, Van der Leegte's argument also focused on this. Then I read the report of the Thinktank Corona Crisis of Mariëtte Hammer of the SER. That also referred to this. Then I thought, "Why can't we really get that reshoring off the ground and get that manufacturing industry back here?" In this way, we can strengthen the economy, create jobs for the future and thus also reduce the dependence on international production lines, which have proved vulnerable as a result of the corona crisis. This is partly due to unfair competition. I would therefore like to make a plea in this debate for this earlier discussion on reshoring. Paul Ulenbelt of the SP was always working on it. PVV, D66, VVD: everyone wanted it, but it didn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u166	Thank you, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u167	One more sentence. I would like to ask the cabinet whether it wishes to instruct the think tank or to request an opinion on this so that we can get it off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u168	Mrs Ouwehand, then Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Segers. Mrs. Ouwehand, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u169	Yeah, I have one more question. I saved it for Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u170	I thought it was going to be about slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u171	Well, maybe I do. Let me get this straight. With all due respect to the VVD, I just heard it make a mistake about taxes. If you lower taxes on labour, there will be much more room to increase taxes on pollution. So that is a shift, but not an increase in the tax. I think it's a good principle. Jobs are now extremely expensive and pollution is cheap. Is the CDA open to that more structural solution? A second question. Mr Heerma spoke of a think tank. The CDA also had a think tank and it actually had a vision: the export-oriented agriculture in the Netherlands was going to run aground. That's what we're seeing now in the slaughterhouses and the crowded stables. That's because we think we have to export 80% of our production. Is that part of the CDA think tank coming back on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u172	That's a lot of questions. In general, that low burden on what makes you rich and high burden on that in which you are poor is not a crazy idea. In the coalition agreement, we reduced the burden on labour and, for example, increased VAT. There was also a lot of comment in this house. I agree with the VVD that it is a question of whether the burden is currently increasing cyclically and economically wise. At the same time, I also asked questions about the state of public finances. Lower labour costs are wise. When you talk about the labour market, and also about the people in those slaughterhouses, this is a real reform of the labour market and, therefore, preventing migrant workers from being migrant workers in this case, but I dare to guess that there are more sectors in which this is going to suffer. Guided by Mr Ulenbelt, we all fought very hard in the previous period against what happened to truck drivers. Those are similar constructions. You can also worry about distribution centers. I think that those people will be most helped if we continue in the direction of that Borstlap committee and genuinely reform the labour market. For the future of agriculture, we have already done a great deal with this coalition, including in the coalition agreement. My colleague Geurts, together with colleagues from D66, has proposed a number of plans. Those are part of the movements the Party for Animals is happy with, I think. When it comes to the future and all the discussions that are now taking place about slaughterhouses and minks, I know that Mrs Ouwehand is very much looking forward to having the debate on this. I can assure Mrs Ouwehand that my colleague Geurts is also looking forward to having the debate on this with her again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mrs Marijnissen, the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u174	We heard D66 at the beginning of the debate saying that the further reduction of the tax on profits for next year is at stake and that this is discussed in the coalition. I am very curious to see how Mr Heerma looks at that. Does he recognize those talks in the coalition? And what's the position of the CDA in that? Would he not also consider it fair if the tax on profits for large companies with which it is going well and making that profit were to be further reduced in this time of major crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u175	Firstly, I hear Mrs Marijnissen give a rather creative summary of what Mr Van Weyenberg has just said. This is often the case in debates of this kind. In general terms, everything will be looked at again in August. Mr Van Weyenberg referred to this. He indicated that he was confident that the cabinet would do very sensible things, as happened last August around the housing market or housing, as we called it in the APB. That is what a lot of money was spent on then. It's in the cabinet that can now and what's going to happen in August. I think we should realise that this budget will not be the easiest budget to be made in, say, thirteen years since we entered the credit crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u176	Yeah, we'll talk again in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u177	We speak quite often, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u178	Sure. Mr Heerma touches on an important point. It's about the production. It has been shipped and it is far away from the Netherlands and far away from Europe. I use and borrow the metaphor of the contrast fluid: if we see somewhere that we are vulnerable, then it is here. For example, when it comes to mouth caps, in this crisis, you can see that we are now dependent on China, Taiwan or wherever they come from. Mr Heerma then made a broader point. That was about the manufacturing industry and companies Brabant and Limburg. Does he want us to identify vital sectors and vital production? What direction does Mr Heerma see in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u179	Mr Segers touches on many points, but I do not want to claim ownership of some of these things. Mrs Marijnissen has been talking about the mouth caps since the beginning of the crisis. I tabled a motion with her on that. It was about vital care, and we took it in Chamberwide, with each other. And I think yesterday, when we voted, we adopted another motion from Christian Union and CDA on how to strengthen the manufacturing industry. So what I am saying here partly builds on both this discussion and the discussion about the manufacturing industry. What was the trigger for me was the interview with Willem van der Veegte. You should read it. The frustration about unfair competition with China sprang from the pages, to a spokesperson who subsequently nuanced it something else that happens here in politics. He made a plea not only to realize in this crisis that it is vulnerable now, but to try to do that production more here in a structural way. VDL Nedcar really is an example of that. Then I thought of a motion that I tabled together with Mariëtte Hammer of the PvdA at the time. It's funny that I'm thinking about that right now. It's been a few years since that reshore came back to America. It was about seeing if you could make the total cost clear. So don't just look at the question: how cheap is it in China? Also look at the quality of the product. And what are the costs of bringing it here? What's the risk of it going wrong? Make that all clear. In America, that has led to a large part of that production, with really serious jobs, going back to doing more. That was at the time under the Reshoring Institute, which I believe was called Obama's start, and that has given rise to serious jobs. We filed that motion and the cabinet wanted to get on with it. Several sectors also say they want it. And yet it doesn't come completely off the ground. I myself believe that Mr Van der Leegte has a point and that this is partly due to unfair competition. The price is therefore more important than the goods. So my question is whether the same think tank that devoted a few sentences to this in the last report can give an opinion on what opportunities there are. How can we create these jobs here? How can we strengthen the manufacturing industry here? But what kind of barriers are there? Then we can have the debate on this with each other to counter that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u180	This is really a crucial point. That's what I'd like to underline. So there is an encouragement on my part in thinking about this; that does not need to be started here, but it can be further developed. But perhaps, as I say, it is good to add an aspect. We also see that our first circle of friends is Europe. Whatever you may think of European cooperation, our neighbouring countries are our best friends. This also seems to me to be an aspect that needs to be taken into account: what can be organised jointly at European level? And it's not either China or the Netherlands, but there's something in between. So wouldn't it be good to bring that in with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u181	This is certainly a valid point. In the motion I tabled together with Mr Marijnissen on the issue of care, Europe is absolutely mentioned. With the risk that I'm going to quote it wrong, because I don't quite know what it's called in NRC anymore, I quote Van der Veegte. In my opinion, he indicates that there are parts that are produced within Europe, but that sometimes for those parts something has to come out of China. And because that screw is not delivered, the headlight cannot be placed in the bus and the bus cannot be delivered. So in that interview, too, that difference is made. At the same time, speaking of this crisis, I think that the importance of the Dutch manufacturing industry for the Dutch economy is also very great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u182	I was pleased to hear that the CDA made a plea about training from work to work. That is very important and that absolutely supports 50PLUS. But I do not hear the CDA talking about other parts of the labour market and the importance for workers to keep their jobs. This can be done, for example, by a work warranty or the suggestion now made by the PvdA, but already by 50PLUS, in order to be able to stop working earlier. By removing people from the labour market, the potential can be increased so that people can get back to work. Where does the CDA stand in this: work guarantee and possibly stop working sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u183	The honest answer is that I have doubts about both. So I'm also curious about the cabinet response. I will try to give you both doubts. When it comes to that job guarantee, you can also see that part of the problem of our labour market has always been the lack of mobility. And the moment you start dishing people for "you might return to your old work," when in fact the economy is changing so much that they have less chance of getting there, maybe afterwards they'll say: would've guided me to a new job from the start. By the way, when discussing people who are in the WW, you hear that they often look very late, because they think "I have to do it now," while, if they had gone looking at the beginning, they would have had a better chance. That again affects Mr Asscher's point, which says: you have to start right away. So that job guarantee sounds social, but that it is going to lead to people waiting too long in the long term, because they think they can return, while in their old sector they will just be structurally less jobs, I think a risk of that. So that's why I'm ambiguous about it and I'm curious about the government's reaction. I am also ambiguous about Mr Asscher's point of view and the earlier cessation of work. Part of this is in the pension agreement, so that movement is there. But on the other hand, if we turn the clock back fifteen years, we have had a huge discussion here about the thesis that 48 years meant the end of the career. When you were 48, your employer told you: it's time to start thinking about the end of your career. With measures that we have taken, there has been an enormous change and, in my opinion, the age at which people remain active has increased enormously in a report of the week that the mobility of senior citizens in the labour market is increasing, with greater job opportunities. So I see Mr Asscher's movement and I see how it affects the pension agreement, but I also find the thought "if you are a little older in the labour market, you should stop sooner" vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u184	I have another question about Mr Heerma's proposal to investigate reshoring and the unfair playing field. Is he also willing to see if you can take along the unfair playing field that exists between Dutch entrepreneurs and large, for example Chinese, parties? I wrote an opinion article on Amazon and Alibaba a few months ago. In fact, it's very simple: if a local shopkeeper in the Netherlands takes out his billboard, he has to pay taxes at the municipality, while if Alibaba advertises in the Netherlands, he doesn't have to. If you take packages this way, no VAT will be paid on them, while the local shopkeeper will have to pay for them. Amazon does not contribute to the stones, the streets and the squares of a municipality, the local shopkeepers must. Could this kind of unfair situation, in which there is no level playing field, of equal monks, equal hoods, between Dutch hard-working entrepreneurs and large Chinese parties be included in such a study?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u185	What Mr Aartsen is doing is giving me the speaking time I did not have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u186	Is that what you agreed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u187	No, but I'm gonna do that next time, because it's a good time for me. I referred to that interview with Wim van der Leegte, because this part of his speech was not only about the opportunities, but also about the barriers why it doesn't come off the ground. This would be one of the barriers why it doesn't come off the ground. Leave that think tank there. I certainly think that Mariëtte Hammer and other interested parties are able to look at these aspects as well to see if they are the reason why this does not come from the ground up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u188	Then it's a good thing we're having this conversation. I think it is indeed important that this research is carried out as widely as possible. Mr Van der Leegte has already spoken about Chinese buses, and we are talking about the small box of tenders. The proposal we made was about municipal law and local taxes. For example, there are always specific boxes in which we have it all arranged, while for me it is a broader problem. It would be good if this were taken into account in that research, to give small Dutch entrepreneurs a level playing field vis-à-vis those large Chinese parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u189	I always get nervous when the words 'as broad as possible' are used, because it should not become so broad that we wait a very long time for them. I would specifically like to have a quick report on the barriers that exist which touch on what Mr Aartsen says. Because if we want to preserve the manufacturing industry in this crisis, we have nothing to do with a full SER opinion that we have to wait for a year and a half. Widening is fine with me, but I also like it quickly and specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u190	I've told you about four men from Deventer who had written to me that they worked in the meat industry since they were 15/16. They were right to say we're not gonna make it that way. When you talk about early retirement, nobody wants to go back to the eighties and quit at 48. But there is a very large group of Dutch people who have worked very hard and started very young, and who are physically barely able to make it if they make it, then they're about to fall over on the day of retirement and if you do something for that now, if you make that early retirement possible, that's not a problem, it's a solution. I understand the ambiguity about very extreme movements, but if you make speed for people who start working early and who work hard, it is much more social for those people, for the companies much better and ultimately for the other employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u191	I understand Mr Asscher's question. I just tried to give you a nuanced answer. I also referred to the pension agreement, in which steps have been taken, and which I was really against in a previous period, because I see this side of the discussion as well. But the concern I express is not for nothing, because I have it. In the end: if you ask me what would really be best, there is indeed a group that started very early. But in recent years, there was also a group of people who were up in the job they were in. We've partially improved that. Then another way of thinking, in which education, Lifelong Learning and employability are important. The thought that you can't go on in your job, but that maybe there's another job where you can, is a direction I'd like to go. That does not change Mr Asscher's story, because I see that side too. That's why I didn't stand here yelling that it's all a disgrace, but I wanted to highlight both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-3.u192	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Then I'm gonna suspend the meeting until 2:10 a.m.
