ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the debate on responsibility for the year 2019. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV. Before I give you the floor, I propose to allow two interruptions in two in two in the first term, but you may also ask four questions. Then it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. I see I've got ten minutes. I don't need all those. Before I begin, I wish Mr Van der Lee well. I hope he's okay. Because these are bizarre times, Mr. Chairman, even today. We're looking back at 2019, a jubilee year. Until a few months ago, there was a satisfied Minister of Finance here, and it couldn't be done. The surplus in the budget was 14 billion. The government debt evaporated to below 400 billion. And unemployment had never been so low, at 2.9%. Who's gonna hurt me, this minister must have thought. And then came corona. A pandemic that shook the whole world. A nightmare for public health, the ic's, but also the economy. This minister breaks one record after another in a few months. He'll be in the Guinness Book of Records any minute. He thought Wouter Bos took the blame the hardest, but now it's him. Consumption, consumer confidence: they have gone down to historical depths. 114,000 companies and 350,000 self-employed people are now on the infusion. Almost 2 million workers are paid their wages by the State. Unfamiliar. Despite these measures, 160,000 jobs were lost in April. The biggest drop since 2003. How is it possible, I ask the Minister, that despite all these packages so many people still lost their jobs? In the spring note, the Minister assumed a 7.5% contraction and a 92 billion deficit for this year. But that was a month ago. We got the spring note very early this year. If we now have a second emergency package of 13 billion and a tax postponement for three months, it will be much higher by 35 billion. My next question to the Minister is: what is the new deficit, with the second aid package? And do we get an update of the Spring Note before we have a debate on this, perhaps along with the June letter from the Central Planning Office? Because the figures have become obsolete. Mr. Chairman. The economy is in a coma. Companies and employees are kept alive by taxpayers with aid packages. Meanwhile, the account has risen to over 100 billion in three months. With the Netherlands facing the biggest crisis since the 1930s, this cabinet is going to negotiate recovery funds of many hundreds of billions to help a country like Italy. I don't get it. We are talking about grants and loans of up to 2,000 billion, while here in the Netherlands we have the biggest crisis since the 1930s. What I don't understand either, Mr President, is that the ECB can go on buying up Italian debt indefinitely. Meanwhile, the counter stands at more than 3,000 billion. 2,000 billion for a recovery fund, 3,000 from the ECB. All many billions that will soon have to be repaid by the taxpayer. Is it true that the ECB has removed the restrictions on the buy-back programme? So they can also go their own way when it comes to buying Italian debt. The only reason, as I say to this Minister, why Southern European countries are advocating the support packages of many hundreds of billions is that they want to present us with the account of their own unsustainable debt under the guise of solidarity. Why does Italy not go to the capital market, so I ask this Minister. They're paying 1.5%. Why should there be aid packages of 2,000 billion, when they can just borrow all the money they need on the capital market, just like this minister? The only reason I can come up with is because they're not going to pay back, because if you don't pay back the investors on the capital market, you have a big problem. Then you'll be a pariah for the next 50 years and no one's gonna want to lend you any more money. But if you do not repay the European Commission or the other Member States or the ECB, that is seen as solidarity. So watch your case. The PVV says: don't fall for it; we need every dime. The PVV is therefore pleased that ex-CDA'er Bert de Vries has also seen the light of day and says that we must leave the euro as soon as possible and return to the guilder. I hope that this Minister and this Secretary of State, who are also from the CDA house, will both be convinced by this insight of Bert de Vries. Lex Hoogduin also recently argued that it should be possible for a country to leave the euro or be expelled from the euro. For Italy, it would also be much better if it were not in the armor of the euro. Slowly it's coming our way. Mr. Chairman. Finally, about the KLM. We had a debate on this in the Old Hall a month ago or a few weeks ago. Then it was about an aid package of between 2 billion and 4 billion. I said at the time: that's quite a difference: 2 billion or 4 billion. What's going on with that? We haven't heard from him since. Can the Minister give us an update on those negotiations? Are the banks jammed? What's going on with the KLM? And can the Minister also immediately indicate how he is going to vote and how he is going to prevent Ben Smith from getting a bonus? I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tony van Dijck. I see that Mr Sneller has a question. No, it'll come later. Okay, that's fine. I now give the floor to Mr Van 't Wout on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too wish Mr Van der Lee well. Luckily, he got back up. We hope he's okay. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck also said it: it is a bit alienating to talk about 2019 here today. Who would have thought a few months ago that we would all have to stay five feet away here, that we wouldn't be able to look up our grandfathers and grandmothers, that we would be happy that our kids could go to school half the time, and that our kids would be happy that they could go back to school? The latter too is historically quite unique, I can say as the father of two children. I'm probably not the only one who thinks back on 2019: did we just have the problems we were facing at the time. Because of these circumstances, we are now holding this debate in a somewhat more sober setting than usual, namely without the Prime Minister and with some shorter speaking time. This is without prejudice to the fact that it is an important debate. First of all, a word of thanks to the staff of the Court of Auditors, who, in these strange times, have all taken the trouble again from home, as the President of the Court of Auditors said, to dive into the figures of the government far behind the decimal place. Mr. Chairman. 2019 may seem even further away if you look at the macro figures for that year. It has just been mentioned: there was an economic growth of 1.8%, a public debt which fell to 48.6%, a budget surplus of 1.7%, a historically low unemployment of 316 000 people and a huge number of vacancies. We have never had such a tight labour market, and that in a year in which the government invested an incredible amount in things that we all consider important, such as education, defence, roads and security. That seemed to be a way up to a maybe even better year, until we got hit by that horrible virus a few months ago. Mr. Chairman. That virus doesn't change the fact that those figures for 2019 are still important, because precisely because those figures were so good, we are now able to do everything we can with both historical and scale unprecedented measures to support entrepreneurs and keep jobs as much as possible. Those good grades are of course primarily due to all those hardworking Dutch people from the nurse to the professor, from the entrepreneur to the fry farmer to the developer in that day, doing their best to make this country together to what it is. But that is also the outcome of political choices over the past eight years. Political choices to keep the budget in balance, to pay off more debts so that in times of need, like this one, you have an apple for thirst. If only more countries had done that. We also look so good because we in the Netherlands... I see Mr Alkaya standing by the interrupting microphone. I think it's about this and I'm just moving on to another point. I don't want to take over your work, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u5	Indeed, it's political choices whether you put people in debt or put the government in debt. We also see in the Monitor Brede Welvaart that in terms of household debt, the Netherlands is in the second-second place in Europe. The second-after-last place! So households in the Netherlands have one of the highest debts across Europe. Does the VVD recognise that these are also political choices, so it is also thanks to the same cabinet that many people are now drowning in debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u6	That would be true if the Monitor Brede Prosperity also included a huge pension asset. In my opinion, you were also at the CBS briefing, which indicated that this was not included. By the way, if the Monitor Brede Prosperity indicates anything, I think it would be better to live in the Netherlands than in any other country in the European Union. Mr. Chairman. We also owe this good starting position to what we are discussing here today. I have sometimes referred to the questioning debate as'maybe the most Dutch debate there is', in which we look to two decimal places to see whether every penny has been properly spent and whether it has been done efficiently. But that is important, because there is a lot of taxpayers' money involved in this government. Citizens have a right to have this money properly spent. It was colleague Duisenberg who started asking the question continuously years ago: what exactly do you want to achieve and what can we charge you for? The duo Snelter and Snels work out of the Chamber in its tradition. Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors does, however, have the necessary criticisms. Even though it might be a little crazy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u7	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u8	Mr. Van't Wout isn't finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u9	Mind if I finish my sentence? Even though it might be a little crazy at this time to get back to that, I think it's precisely because of the strong starting position we have because we're hard to get behind the decimal point, that it's so important to get into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u10	Either this was a very long answer or Mr Van 't Wout has gone a bit further in his speech. There are 500,000 to a million people with problematic debts. Can Mr Van 't Wout imagine that if they are told of the largest party in this country that is opposed to the fact that there are also large pension funds, they will not benefit at all? If the bailiff's at your door, it's not gonna do you any good that you're gonna have a pension later. It's no good that the government debt is so low when you're in debt because of the loan you had to take to complete your studies. So people at home get a lot of distrust when they hear these kinds of accounting stories while they are themselves in the problematic debt. Does the VVD agree with me that the cabinet needs to work hard to really tackle people's debt problems this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u11	Under the leadership of Secretary of State Van Ark, the cabinet is working very hard on this. I'm not saying that people who are in trouble shouldn't complain, as you seem to insinuate. We have to work hard on that, but even if you are in a vulnerable position, unfortunately, I fear, there will always be people in vulnerable positions in every country in the world. That is precisely because the macroeconomic figures are so good. That's how we can do it all together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u12	Mr Van 't Wout mentioned an apple for thirst: The Netherlands has an apple for thirst. How big is that apple for thirst?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u13	It's going backwards now. Just because our sovereign debt was so low, we're able to roll out those huge packages. We are going to debate the second package on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u14	An apple for the thirst sounds to me like you've got a piggy bank somewhere. But every euro is borrowed. Mr. Van 't Wout will realize that, too. So our thirst apple is the same as any apple for the thirst of all the Member States that can borrow on the capital market. It is always said that the Netherlands has an apple for thirst, but we should borrow it just as well as Italy should. So why is the VVD willing to help Italy, while Italy can also borrow money? That's like the 100 billion this minister needs to borrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u15	We borrow on extremely favourable terms. We can do that because we have had such a reliable financial policy in recent years. I fully agree with you that I would strongly recommend Italy to borrow itself on that capital market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u16	Yes, Mr. Tony van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u17	We've only got four interruptions, haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u18	Yes, you remembered that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u19	I'm flying through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u20	And I'm sure you'd like to say something to the CDA about Bert de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u21	Yeah, I had that in my back pocket. What I'd like to know is this. If there is a package from the European Commission tomorrow of 500, 1,000 or perhaps 2 000 billion, with a recovery fund from here to Tokyo to help Italy at this difficult time, then you are not in favour of it. I understand from Mr Van 't Wout's words that he is not in favour of this, because Italy can simply borrow on the capital market at 1.5%. That's a very nice interest rate, there's nothing wrong with that. So I assume he is now saying here: whatever the European Commission comes with, not a penny extra to Brussels!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u22	No, you can't assume that, because I think it's a good habit to judge proposals once you know them, and not to debate a little "like-danner" here. It's not gonna help anybody.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u24	Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few points from the Court of Auditors' reports. The Court of Auditors makes many, but they will of course also be dealt with here and there in the committees. Firstly, there is the issue of ICT and, in particular, information security. For years the Court of Auditors has rightly made a point of this, but also the House of Representatives. Last year I sighed: I will not have to retable motions calling on the cabinet to finally get this right. Honesty commands that there is a little bit of light at the end of the tunnel, because the Court of Auditors is now saying: at least it is prominent on the retina of the cabinet. I also think that the coordinating role of the Secretary of State can help in this. But there's no reason to be satisfied or sit back. I would almost say that even at this time when we are doing virtually everything digitally, this top priority should be no. 1 are, and certainly where safety is concerned. I refer, for example, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we seem to be unable to assume that what is being exchanged there at diplomatic level is also being done safely. I ask the Secretary of State what he will do about it in the coming year. How does he make sure that we, as a chamber, can keep our finger on the wrist? Last year we had a little longer debate on this with the Minister of the Interior. That ended with a letter in December. I think that the problem is so great that the Chamber is entitled to it and that it would also be a good thing if we were to discuss it more often, not only in the context of the day of accountability or in December. Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors is also very critical of the unauthorized commitments of the cabinet, which for the first time in many years have exceeded 1% of the tolerance limit. Of course, this is largely because a very special purchase has been made with the shares of KLM-Air France. It is also fair to say that there was, of course, a complex weighting for the cabinet between the confidentiality requirement you have when buying shares and the duties you have vis-à-vis the Chamber. Good work has now been done, in cooperation with the Committee on Finance, to ensure that this sort of thing is done better in accordance with the formal procedures. But I think it is right for the Cabinet to indicate what it is going to do to ensure that, in the coming year in particular, we do not yet know what special things we will have to do in this regard, so that the Chamber can fulfil its constitutional task. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point that always concerns me as a former spokesperson: the freedom of decision of municipalities. Once again, the Court warns against the devolution of decentralisation payments. I have the impression that Mr Nijboer wishes to comment on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u25	Yeah, I bet you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u26	Yeah, I'm helping out a little bit. I know that he is also very concerned about the decentralisation payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u27	Is that right, Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u28	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the VVD has a great deal of understanding for the difficult circumstances in which shares should be bought, and very little hard makes the point that the Minister has simply spent money illegally. The Minister himself is getting rid of it very easily. He actually says 'thank you for understanding that it was a difficult situation', while the Court of Auditors is very harsh about it. So I am actually asking for the opinion of the VVD Group on the unlawful purchase of those shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u29	I think I just gave it to you. I'm not okay with that. In the end, I understand how that happened, and I am glad that a process has now been agreed with the Chamber to ensure that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u30	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u31	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the decentralisation payments. The Court says that municipalities are too often curtailed in their policy freedom by the government. In doing so, the government goes against its own laws. It may sound a bit like a boring, technical subject, but also in the light of the corona crisis, I think that in the coming year, we will need precisely the creativity and insight that municipalities have in order to deliver tailor-made solutions and cope with the consequences of the corona crisis. That is why I ask the Cabinet to really ensure that municipal policy freedom is given the position it should have. This also includes, of course, the ability of the city council to control them. Finally, Mr President. Next year's Accountability Day will look very different anyway. Hopefully we can sit in the room with more people and have a beer afterwards, but that is not certain. What is certain is that the government figures will look very different, and probably a lot worse. That is necessary, because we must save as many jobs as possible and we must try to support the economy. But it is precisely then that it is also necessary to be extremely keen on how you spend those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u32	I hear Mr Van 't Wout almost sighing: we only had the same problems as in 2019. I can reassure him: we still have it. This is the biodiversity and climate crisis. In the first part of his speech he emphasized in particular what the broad prosperity monitor says about the here and now. I was wondering if he could say something about what the broad-welfare monitor says about later and elsewhere, whether he read that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u33	Yeah, I read that, too. As always, the Monitor Brede Prosperity gives a very interesting kind of picture of where we are now. By the way, Mr Van Raan understands that I am not playing down anything if I say "we only had the problems of 2019'. It would only have been nice if that had been at the heart of the debate at the moment. You'll agree with me. You can see that we face challenges for the future. That is why it is wise for this cabinet to pursue a sensible, realistic and ambitious policy on all these issues, whether it be development cooperation or climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u34	That is why I started with a relative remark. I also realize that the VVD really sees this as a core problem. But these indicators about later and elsewhere actually indicate that the prosperity of the here and now is not sustainable. Do the VVD and Mr Van 't Wout, looking at these indicators about later and elsewhere, agree with the Animal Party that all the billions we are now investing in the economy should also be at the service of making prosperity sustainable in the here and now, but also later and elsewhere? Does Mr Van 't Wout agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u35	Yeah, when you put it that generally, I do. But if we work that out in detail, I think there will again be differences between the VVD and the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u36	Well, we don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u37	This is your third question, isn't it? You only have four.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u38	Yeah, that's good. It is important that we agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u39	So you spend it on Mr Van 't Wout. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u40	Mr. Van 't Wout is going into the details right now, but I'm not asking that at all. In general, we agree that you must also use the investments you are making now, those billions, to maintain prosperity for the "later" and "everyone else." Is it not incomprehensible, then, that the VVD has not once said, with regard to all the measures that have been taken so far, all the packages proposed so far, and all the budgets and all the supplementary budgets that have been adopted: yes, we also need to look at sustainability requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u41	I do not find it strange that at the moment we are mainly concerned with all those people who lie awake at night because they are concerned that they are losing their jobs or are unable to pay their company's accounts. They're just as top or mind right now. We will continue to do so, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u42	I can very well imagine that the VVD Group will not be able to review all the points of the Court of Auditors during this debate. Full understanding of that. But one of the more important points I felt was that the Court of Auditors was in line with the desire of a number of political parties here to gain more insight into the spending plans of the trade ministers towards the Minister of Finance. Does the VVD group agree with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u43	I think that is a very interesting suggestion from the Court of Auditors, especially since the Court of Auditors says: if you do that afterwards, you seem to remove the cabinet's initial objection that it can do something for your negotiating position. But let us also ask the cabinet to respond once again to that suggestion made by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u44	Thank you, Mr. Van 't Wout. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u45	Mr. Chairman. "The valuable quality of the human brain in order to simplify becomes dangerous if it is not controlled by explicit criteria." That's what the economist Simon Kuznets wrote to the U.S. Congress in 1934. Kuznets developed the system of national accounts as we still use it. He did that because we need to be able to control numbers when making policies. Without simplification, no sharp insight. But Kuznets was also a great critic of what he developed himself. If we do not make explicit what our goals are, how do we achieve them? And what does it end up like? If we don't, according to Kuznets, we'll abuse the quality of the human brain and fool ourselves. At the core, political accountability is about resisting this tendency: the tendency to fool ourselves. What were the targets? And did we achieve it? It is attractive to want to look ahead in these unique times, what awaits us, but just today we are doing justice to Kuznet's warning through the Accountability debate. Today's need does not break all the laws. By paying attention to accountability, we fulfil our constitutional mandate to control the cabinet. Moreover, we are thinking about the past, because it gives us an insight into how to deal with Kuznet's warning in the future, especially as we sail on sight in these times. Mr. Chairman. As far as legality is concerned, the draft seems to be getting in the way. This year, the Court of Auditors made a serious note. There are substantial shortcomings in several ministries. Moreover, the purchase of Air France-KLM shares was unlawful. That's not a small matter of state law. How does the Minister look back on this and what will the cabinet do to reverse the falling trend in legality? In addition to the legality of expenditure, accountability is also about whether the taxpayer gets what he gets for his money. The Court of Auditors reiterates that we often do not know this. Concrete examples are the natural gas-free neighbourhoods, the cycle paths, the subsidy low-income advantage, the material readiness Defence and digital health care. Sometimes things are going well, but these are examples where we don't really know. What lessons does the Minister draw from this? At least as important in this respect are the lessons from another past. KLM is praised by a part of politics The Hague to the "blue pride" and the national icon that must be saved at all costs. It reminded me of Fokker and DAF, once national icons, now symbol of another time. I find the lack of precision shown in the rescue of KLM very worrying, especially since the Court of Auditors points to the 1970s and 1980s. At that time, there was great pressure for rescue operations, but there was no proper analysis of economic strategy and employment effects. The financial support was then disproportionate and the Court was not sufficiently informed. Moreover, the Court of Auditors later concluded that little had been learned from it. Afterwards too, during the financial crisis, there was no adequate accountability. The requirements of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act are now in danger of disappearing into the background. How do we increase understanding of goals, effectiveness and efficiency in this crisis? How are we going to evaluate later? Even if regulations need to be put in place quickly in the front, we must at least be clear about the evaluation. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Kuznets warned that the quality of the human brain to simplify is dangerous if we do not use explicit criteria. And 30 years later, he added: a distinction must be made between the quantity and the quality of growth. Policy objectives for more growth should explicitly specify what we want to grow. Here we see the relevance of the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Because what do we want to grow? Our nitrogen surplus is among the highest in Europe and our share of renewable energy is among the lowest. We score moderately on climate action and our biodiversity has also deteriorated trend under this cabinet. Meanwhile, the government was attacked by the nitrogen issue and the Climate Agreement does not prove to be sound enough to meet the Paris objectives. And that for the greenest cabinet ever. How does the cabinet justify and evaluate that? What else was there to do? How are we gonna do better? Mr. Chairman. The one-and-a-half-metre society that we now seem to be living in in the coming period is driving us to define precisely objectives in social developments. Right now, what we want to grow is important. For example, the relative usefulness of measuring our performance in terms of economic growth for the coming year is decreasing further as we deliberately impose growth-preventing measures to protect our neighbors. Also, a classic look at putting the treasury in order does more harm than good at a time when we have to invest to get the economy off the infusion without too much damage. With regard to GroenLinks, this should have concrete implications for the way in which we think about policy objectives in the forthcoming budget. The cabinet states that the monitor cannot be simply integrated into the policy cycle "We've had a lot of debates about this before," but some of the indicators used by the monitor should serve as policy targets for the next year's corona crisis policy. Think, for example, of people's satisfaction with their living environment and social environment, their contact with family, friends and neighbours. Think also of the loneliness of older people or access to care and the extent to which different groups can be equal in this type of thing. It is precisely in a one-and-a-half-metre society in which support for restrictions is precarious that these should be particularly important objectives, in addition to classical indicators on employment, poverty and inequality. Is the Cabinet prepared to define and take as a starting point and use various of these broad welfare indicators for the upcoming budget and then link them to specific policies? Then we will not only be on sight, but we will be addressing concrete challenges in this time of crisis. Finally, Mr President. Last year I compared my participation in the Accountability debate with the character that keeps waking up in the film Groundhog Day on the same day. After all, I had the same questions every year and got about the same answers. In this Accountability debate, we do not escape a glimpse of the future from the past, if only to learn on time from Kuznets' warnings. One thing is obvious: the Accountability debate 2021 must not be Groundhog Day. The cabinet then has to answer for the current crisis policy. With that prospect, I have asked a number of critical questions about the method of accountability. I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u46	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also hope that Mr Van der Lee is doing well at the moment. It's always things that scare you for a second. Mr. Chairman. Speaking today about the results of 2019 is amazing. Mr Van 't Wout already indicated that and Mr Van Dijck in his own words. It's like talking about a completely different world. 2019 was the year in which never so many people in the Netherlands had a paid job. Many people are already unemployed today and the number of people without jobs will grow over the coming period. 2019 was the year in which the government closed the books with a surplus of 15.6 billion euros. The estimated deficit of 22 billion presented in the Spring Paper has risen to well over 100 billion after the second package. Where in 2019 EMU debt fell below 50% of gross domestic product, we are now going through the 60% roof. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has spent 22 billion more, more than 8% more, compared to the start of 2017. And that was the biggest spending package in history. Nevertheless, the critical comment of many is that the cabinet was too economical. Today, this resource-efficient policy still allows us to focus on the preservation of as many jobs as possible. In particular, it can be offered for specific groups of arrangements that can only be dreamed of elsewhere. In recent years, the Dutch population has created the space for this by means of reforms. We do not yet know how long and how much public support is needed, but the importance of buffers is evident. I have often drawn attention from this place to the lack of buffers among many of our inhabitants and the business community. On my part, the reaction was often that the cabinet has already taken a lot of good measures in terms of limiting lending capacity for the purchase of the house and that certain group structures were the reason for the high corporate debt positions. Moreover, a rebuttal was that the assets of households and companies are still greater than the debts. That's all understandable, all true, but still. The speed with which households and businesses have to rely on government regulations also gives reason to think. I ask the cabinet how we can ensure that a larger proportion of the population and businesses are set up buffers and that this is also going to pay off. Because I understand that this certainly doesn't seem to pay off at negative interest rates. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a study to explore how households and businesses can be rewarded rather than penalised in building buffers? We can imagine the Nibud being involved in any event. Mr. Chairman. Also this year, the Monitor Brede Welvaart was published. My compliments for the commitment of the CBS and the SCP, which brings them with such a beautiful analytical study. The Broad Prosperity Monitor clearly indicates that the next generation needs to focus attention on the development of natural capital and non-renewable raw materials. The fact that this cabinet pays more than any previous cabinet attention to this is justified, but... That 'but' belongs to my group in terms of the effectiveness of the means deployed. It seems that the same disappointments have to be dealt with over and over again, for example when it comes to the overcompensation of the hybrid and then electric cars. Once again, the General Court's investigation gives a number of striking examples. The Empire invests in the creation of fast bicycle paths. This should seduce about 4% of people to leave the car and go to work on a bike. But the result is that less than 1% makes that switch. Moreover, many of these bike paths were paid for while they would have been made without these interventions. Then the project natural gas-free neighborhoods. The intention was to build 50,000 natural gas-free homes with 435 million. Meanwhile, we do not know what the costs are and how many homes are now natural gas-free. Moreover, the focus has shifted from making natural gas free to learning. 435 million to gain a learning experience seems rather expensive to me. Then there is the ongoing discussion about, for example, something like the effectiveness of biomass plants. And precisely because the sustainable management of our earth is at the heart of my group, we need to know what the effective use of the euro is. If not, this will affect the public's support. For too long it seems that every euro is justified, as long as it sounds green. Again and again too high results are previewed and the results are disappointing. Now the confidence in institutions in our society is still high, but we hear more and more discussions about the reliability of models. These results fuel the mistrust. Is the Minister prepared to allow the Audit Service to investigate the various models on which expectations and outcomes are based? Could they be shared before the end of the year? This critical comment came from the General Court, but could this have been taken up by the project Inzicht in Quality? What mechanisms can be developed to ensure that investment in CO reduction is actually spent on the most effective programmes, such as housing isolation? Mr. Chairman. Another concern from the Monitor Brede Prosperity is the development of social capital. Two trends are negative, that of contact with family, friends and neighbors, and the willingness to volunteer. An important project for my group, in this context, to reverse the tide of commitment to society, is social service. This should eventually amount to EUR 100 million in 2021. Before 2019 it was once budgeted at 50 million. Although 12,000 young people have started, we cannot find out from the figures how much the project has completed. Of other elements, such as the agreement to have a pre when applying for a job, we already know that they have been deleted. None of these goals seem to be achieved. How realistic is it that the agreements in the government agreement on social service are still being reached? What we notice further is the disappointment with the childcare allowance. This is due to a higher use of childcare than previously thought. It may also explain the large increase in employment rates. But can it also be that the care previously provided by family, friends or neighbors is increasingly taking place through the daycare center? In other words, what is the explanation for the increased use of childcare? Which group is experiencing this increase? Are those higher-skilled people, or perhaps those with low education and a flex contract? Mr. Chairman. An important project, a bit like this minister's child, is the project Understanding Quality. The aim is to increase the social impact of policies. It appears that this is not an easy task. For example, defining and measuring results appears to be difficult. I believe that this cabinet has made an important contribution through the form of the spending plan. However, it appears too easy to change the target after approval. The question is, however, where the focus of control should be. After all, how logical is it that this should be with the Minister of Finance? Or should the Chamber itself be more on its own qui-vive? How does the Minister view the implied suggestion of the General Court not only to give prior approval to spending plans, but also to monitor the progress of this implementation as a whole? In addition to new plans, should existing expenditure be placed much more structuralally along this scale? I have another piece, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u48	From the Monitor Brede Welvaart that we received, it appeared that a Dutch household is in the second highest position when it comes to debt per household in Europe. I am glad that the CDA has now come to the understanding that we do not have buffers and that we do pretend to have money, that we pretend to be rich in the Netherlands, but that the households are poor and have been disadvantaged for years with their available income. They have no buffers and we all pretend to be right here and as if they're all so broad. But now I wonder if the CDA is willing to slow down in the future with all these tax increases, so that those people can keep a little more money in the wallet and build up some more buffers. Until now, the CDA has always ensured that at the end of the month people were always a bit short and could not build anything in terms of buffers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u49	I would like to point out, for example, that these figures do not include all the assets; in my opinion, Mr Van 't Wout has already indicated this, and this was also reflected in the briefing. So I do think this indicator needs a little nuance. The second point that Mr Van Dijck points out is that there have been a lot of heavy burdens in the last period. We didn't miss that either. That is why we were so pleased that this cabinet, even after the proposals it intends to make now, is saying: we want to continue with some of those cuts. I therefore expect Mr Van Dijck to continue to support the cabinet in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u51	Actually, no, because I can see that Mr Van Dijck is still at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u52	It's a bit there, half. Your last question, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u53	I wanted to look forward to 2021. That is not what we are talking about today, because we are looking back to 2019. But everyone's wondering who's gonna pay for this crisis. Last time, the CDA was in the lead to increase VAT from 19% to 21% and to agree to all very stupid measures that hit citizens hard in the wallet. The PVV was against it and the CDA blamed us for being against it. We wanted people to be able to build a bit of a buffer, even in good times. But bad times are coming now and the question is how the CDA is going to ensure that even in bad times people can build a buffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u54	That's just the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u55	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u56	Yes, I do. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u57	I should give almost the same answer, otherwise there could be another discrepancy. But the point is, I think that at the beginning, I also said that you should not write this on governments' accounts. The fact that this cabinet has the opportunity to support these emergency packages has everything to do with the willingness of the people to give them the opportunity to do so. That is what has been done with these reforms. That makes it possible to give such a huge blow, which not only we have to deal with, but also the rest of the world, in a better way, I think, than many other countries can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u58	I would like to talk about the debt, not the household debt, although we are discussing the surcharges tomorrow and we know that the government itself has a great responsibility in building up household debt. But now I want to talk about companies. I'm a little surprised the CDA wants a new investigation. I think we have just received the Kansrijk tax policy report from the CPB, we received the building blocks of the cabinet itself and we have had the Ter Haar committee. I think that's 3,000 pages in total. An important theme in this is the tax facilitation of debt building, especially in companies. These reports all conclude the same: we must continue to limit the interest deduction. This will ensure that we no longer subsidise debt building. In addition, large companies are going to pay a little tax. Does Mr Slootweg also think that this cabinet should start doing so as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u59	I would like to say that, in my opinion, this cabinet, and certainly the Secretary of State for Finance, has already taken a lot of steps to see how we can do that. I can see there's little building blocks all over it. You're saying this is a component, but I think it just needs a little more. For example, in a number of other countries companies have slightly more buffers than in the Netherlands. I'd like to take a look at that. So I see some of these building blocks for a sec, but I still miss the integral picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u60	I do not want to paraphrase my predecessor, Mr Sneller, but we have a few thousand pages ahead of us. Precisely because we know that the Minister of Finance's wallet is emptying and we are having discussions about who ultimately pays the bill, I think it is important that the cabinet makes proposals for this, for example, in the Tax Plan. All these reports always say the same thing: The Netherlands subsidises far too much debt building in companies. Limit that. This has two objectives: less corporate debt and more profit tax for the Minister of Finance. What's stopping you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u61	I think that this question by Mr Snels is almost the same as the one he asked first, compared to the question that Mr Van Dijck repeated. I believe that the cabinet has taken a number of good steps, but also in the building blocks that are there, I really do miss an integral proposal. I'd like that to come about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u62	I'm glad there's so much attention for people in debt today. After this crisis, I fear, that will get much worse. The biggest problem is often not only that people spend three years in debt restructuring, but also that the whole way there often takes a very long time. I had a lot to do with that during my city council period. People sometimes fight for 12 years before they're out of debt. Can we, I hope, just get a supporter in the CDA together to fight that that path in which people sit before they finally come out of debt will be considerably reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u63	When I look at what was put down in the coalition agreement to see what we can do about problematic debts, I note that perhaps that is the paragraph in the coalition agreement that I am most proud of. I also think that Secretary of State Van Ark is working very hard on this. I also notice that, apart from those passages and the execution of those plans, it is a multi-headed monster. If there are ideas to shorten it that actually work, which are actually working and not planning, then I'm always willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u64	I welcome your commitment, because I have so much to do with it in my area: people who have been fighting for 12 years. You'll get a lower sentence for murder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u65	I leave that parallellie to Mr Krol. If it's all right with you, Mr President, I'll continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u67	Mr. Chairman. The Court's main criticism focuses on the purchase of Air France-KLM shares and in particular on the provision of information to the House of Representatives. This purchase therefore makes sure that a comment is made on the approval. I note that we see in the Court of Auditors' report how this Minister has struggled to meet both the requirements of budget law and the obligation to provide information and those of the European Market Abuse Regulation. The Chamber and the Minister have recently concluded together that information should have gone in a different way. Working arrangements have been made and an information protocol has been established. The Court's recommendations have therefore also been followed up. We are pleased that the cabinet has acted so decisively, but that there would have been a culture in which Parliament's budget and information law would have been subordinated to achieving policy goals is something I do not see the beginning of in the actions, the search for the minister. Mr. Chairman. That at Accountability Day since last year there has also been involvement from the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations has to do with the questions about ICT management and more precisely information security. For a number of years this has remained a persistent dossier whose progress is the most like a procession of Echternach: two steps forward and then one step backwards. We see that more direction is envisaged from Home Affairs, for example through joint IT management for ministries. However, participation is not mandatory and every ministry wants customization that doesn't really start standardisation. To what extent is it wise that agreements, management and purchase of IT can be made by a ministry separately? When we see how important digitisation is for our economy, doesn't decision-making require concentration rather than each ministry building up its own policies, suppliers and expertise? We also do not invest questions about infrastructure and waterways in every ministry, so why is it about the digital highway? Mr President, I do not really have any more speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u68	Okay. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u69	I'll come back to that part of the stock purchase. Mr Slootweg is very lenient to the Minister on this and talked about the Minister wrestling and I do not know. But in the Court's report, Mr Slootweg was able to read those whatsapps from the project team that are cited. There was the choice pink: do it lawfully, inform parliament. And there was the choice red: buy those shares. And then the officials in those whatsapp texts say: 'The minister chooses very clearly for the effectiveness of the implementation'. So that's "red, with some more information." Conclusion: illegally spent 744 million. The Court of Auditors says to Parliament: watch your case. We must stand for the House's budget right. I'm asking the CDA to stand up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u70	I stand for that, too, but what I have a bit of a problem with is the claim that a culture would now have emerged in which budget and information obligations have been made subordinate. In the whatsapps you read, I don't see any whatsapp from the minister indicating he's going for it. So I see a minister struggling with two points: budgetary and information obligations and the regulation on market abuse. He's trying to do that in a good way. Finally, the Court of Auditors notes that if we are not allowed to do so, it is unlawful. However, the Court of Auditors also makes the point that there was not a very easy way to do so. Work has recently been carried out on this subject. So I don't recognize the image that there would be an idea of "I don't think that's important." I really don't recognize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u71	I do not share that with Mr Slootweg. I believe that the Minister has deliberately violated the fundamental right, the budgetary right of the Chamber, even though he was otherwise informed. The Court of Auditors shall address him accordingly. In his reply, the Minister said: I am glad that it was acknowledged that it was a struggle. No, there's just a case, namely SNS REAAL I've been there myself where it went well and showed how it could be done. That case has been cited. Mr Van Dijck was there too. I think we should be very keen on this as a Chamber, because otherwise the cabinet will be given a free pass to buy shares from a listed company or to buy a bank or to make a deal with the NAM. And we shouldn't want that. I therefore believe that we should be very keen on this, regardless of whether we are coalition or opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u72	Let me put it this way: I share that last part of the analysis entirely with Mr Nijboer. But when it comes to the difference between SNS REAAL and what happened at Air France-KLM, I find that difference gradual. One of the important points that the General Court now points out, for example, is that the First Chamber members should be involved. That wasn't the case with SNS REAAL either. I have never heard anyone say that before in the Chamber, in the vein of'shame that did not happen'. So I really agree with Mr Nijboer when he says that we need to focus on this, and that is why I am glad that working arrangements have been made, but I really do not recognise the point that it is not considered important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u73	Mr Slootweg addressed the concept of stewardship at the beginning of his speech. One of the advantages of the fact that we have been talking about the broad welfare monitor for three years now is that we can see that the indicators for 'later' in particular have not improved for three years in a row. In other words, we farmers are getting worse when it comes to leaving the world better. This cabinet's been going on for over three years. So can Mr Slootweg explain again to me, and perhaps to the whole of the Netherlands, what exactly is that "rent mastery"? How is that reflected in the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u74	I would like to thank Mr Van Raan for giving me the opportunity to give an election speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u75	That's what I thought!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u76	But I really think, when I look at what this cabinet has done and what intentions it has with regard to the nitrogen problem and the climate problem, that the stewardship ideal is very recognizable. I think Mr Van Raan also knows that there are many changes to climate change. And when it comes to nature and the movements in nature, it's not a speedboat. We will have to work on this very extensively. I am therefore confident that this commitment will indeed improve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u77	That was a short campaign speech! Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I'm very glad you kept it short. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u78	Mr. Chairman. "Many forms of state have been tried and will still be tried in this world of sin and woe. No one pretends that democracy is perfect. Democracy is the worst form of state we know, except for all the other forms of state that have been tried." The Minister of Finance may have recognized these words as an admirer of Winston Churchill. Today we are all more aware of the importance of our democracy and the importance of the House of Representatives as an institution in our democracy. Today, the government comes to account for how it spent community money last year. Mr. Chairman. So Churchill already indicated that we're not perfect. We are only trying to control those in power as closely as possible on behalf of the people who voted for us. Then it is painful for the Court of Auditors to find that there is a lack of confidence on the part of the Minister of Finance in the parliament, and that his lack of confidence in us has led to him spending Community money illegally when he entered into the obligation to buy Air France-KLM shares. As a result, too many unlawful commitments were entered into last year, for the first time since 2008. What is the Minister's reaction to this extremely painful finding by the Court of Auditors? Does his lack of confidence in us prevent him from fulfilling his duties in the future, including those of Article 68 of the Constitution? Anyway, I'm curious how the Minister wants to deal with this scar on his ministership. A minister may not spend Community money until the parliament has approved it or, exceptionally, after we have been informed confidentially. But because the Minister of Finance has no confidence in our processes, he chose a different path. He invited 12 MPs to the ministry without them knowing what it was about. They had to sign a confidentiality agreement on the spot and were then informed in a personal capacity, but were not allowed to do anything else with that information. Apparently, his lawyers trusted the minister, because they didn't have to sign, unlike the representatives of the people. The Registrar of the House of Representatives was not welcome and therefore no report was made of that meeting. In short, Mr President. As an institution, the House of Representatives is not respected in the purchase of Air France-KLM shares. The First Chamber has, as I said, been completely skipped. The SP rejects this way of informing the people's representatives. The De Wit parliamentary committee of inquiry concluded unanimously that when the State makes expenditure, it is subject to prior and ex post control by the parliament. The Council of State and the Court of Auditors are now saying that the regulation on market abuse, which has already been cited, did not prevent us from informing ourselves in advance confidentially according to the procedures we have. I therefore hope today that an unmistakable signal from us to the Minister, but also from the Minister to us, will never happen again. Mr. Chairman. KLM wasn't the only company that got community money in a questionable way last year. While tens of thousands of houses in Groningen are still unsafe and only eleven of them have been made safe in the first three months of this year, last year the NAM received EUR 90 million from the cabinet, a first compensation for lost profits because the gas tap has to close. So that money went straight to the billion-dollar Shell and ExxonMobil, despite the SP's motion to stop it. The legality of this transaction is now also questionable. Is the government therefore going to recover these millions immediately from the NAM? The cabinet, even this year, is still extremely competent in transferring Community money to large companies. Last time, to shipyard IHC: 400 million. One month earlier, a billion euros to the credit insurers. Those are a few examples. The ease with which this cabinet makes money available to large companies is in stark contrast to how they deal with ordinary people. Take the climber's policy. While people's energy bills have already been increased at home, today we hear that large polluters will be reduced, because the CO levy is also going to go off the table. Or take the taxes. In the years that Booking.com received billions of tax gifts, people were discriminated against and held poor by their own government. How does the Minister explain this great contrast? Why this great confidence in multinationals in this cabinet, but a deep distrust of the people and the parliament? The cabinet must stop spoiling multinationals and shareholders and start respecting its own citizens and parliament. Too often we had to push and pull last year to get information from the cabinet and meanwhile citizens were disadvantaged. The Monitor Brede Welvaart confirms the image that we see as SP daily. There is more than enough prosperity in the Netherlands, but it is unevenly divided, unfairly distributed. Millions of people who do not have high education or have a different background are structurally disadvantaged in this system. They live in worse homes and live in more unsafe neighborhoods. They are taken less seriously in their own government and even live shorter. Where a small elite swims in wealth, a lot of people drown in debt. A large part of the Netherlands lives on the puff. At the moment, they are surviving more than they are living, and that is a disgrace on all the government's economic figures. Against this background, last year's figures are quite antisocial. Doesn't the cabinet feel guilty at all if it is beaten because of the low debt of the government, while households' debts are among the highest in Europe? Isn't the Minister ashamed if he hasn't been able to realise the promised purchasing power growth in 2019, that it's been left behind, again, in the beautiful promises we see every year at Princess Day? Is the Minister not behind the ears when the people with the lowest incomes have once again fallen behind the top and even the average? These are not natural phenomena, but consequences of political choices. The fact that prices increased faster than wages in 2019 is mainly due to the fact that this cabinet increased VAT, which has made all the messages more expensive. The fact that wages did not rise sufficiently has to do with the minimum wage which is still far too low. In short, last year people did not get the promised sweet and meanwhile we are in recession again. Clearly, the right hand has not been able to share wealth fairly in the Netherlands, even when the economy has been growing rapidly in recent years. The right has failed, and that promises a way out of the crisis we are now in. The Netherlands is not at its core deeply socialist, as the Prime Minister wants us to believe. Unfortunately, the Netherlands has become deeply neoliberal in its core. But people will not take that anymore and the way out of this corona crisis will therefore run differently from the previous years led by the right. The bill must go to the big companies and the people must finally get the appreciation they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u79	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Mr Slootweg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u80	At the beginning of his speech, Mr Alkaya indicated the importance he attached to the First Chamber and to the De Wit Committee. Can he indicate on which page in the report of the De Wit Committee that it is necessary to invite Senior Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u81	These are two different subjects, both of which are important. That's not the same subject. Following the De Wit Committee, the entire Chamber, which was Chamberwide, concluded that Parliament should be able to control the expenditure incurred in advance and afterwards. It is also important that the First Chamber should be able to look at this. These are two different things that I mentioned in my speech, but these are not issues that have to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u82	I don't think the De Wit Committee has said anything about the First Chamber, but you do link that up in your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u83	No, I've said several things. The De Wit Committee made very harsh judgments on how the credit crisis was handled at the time. Lessons have been learned from this that have been adopted by the entire Chamber. One is that the Court should be able to control expenditure in advance and afterwards. In addition, I have made comments about the Upper House. The Court of Auditors and the Council of State have also made statements in recent months which all point in the same direction, namely to reject the way in which Parliament, including the Senate, has been informed when purchasing Air France-KLM shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u84	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I call Mr Sneller, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once upon a time, there was a cabinet that had the biggest problem that it didn't get the money spent. No matter how hard the ministers tried, every year they had billions left. Meanwhile, the economy continued to grow. Almost everyone worked. There were about as many unemployed as vacancies. It sounds like a story that plays a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, but chairman, you also know it's about the Netherlands in 2019. As a progressive politician, I always take care to glorify the good old days, because in the rearview mirror many of the edges disappear from the picture. And last year, there were enough raven edges to learn from. I would like to mention a few: the exceeded tolerance limit for unlawful acts, the problems faced by government implementing agencies and almost all indicators for climate and nature that are in red. In the current situation, which is in so many ways opposite to that of 2019, it is particularly important that the cabinet is here to answer, not only as a signal but also to draw conclusions together and learn lessons, because actions will now have an extra big impact. Last week I heard the Prime Minister say that he is using the rule that it is better to apologize afterwards than to ask for prior consent. I would like to be the first to confirm and reassure the Minister that this is not an official cabinet policy. But it is true, because in the first emergency budget of many billions there was a need for little attention to be paid to whether this money was being spent carefully and efficiently. Does the Minister agree with me that there is therefore an additional burden of proof to do so afterwards? And how is this gonna get shape? Mr. Chairman. Part of the crisis arsenal is also the revival of industrial policy with tailor-made rescue packages to keep companies alive. During the debate on the purchase of Air France-KLM shares, I asked what lessons the Minister has learned from the RSV affair and the subsequent survey. Now that the Court of Auditors is raising this question again, I would, of course, like to invite the Minister to answer that question. I mentioned it earlier: our expensive duty not to slacken and to guard the legacy of the 1980s and 1990s, when a great deal of work has been done to obtain an approval of the Court of Auditors. This year, Mr. Van 't Wout recalled the fact that for the first time in many years the Empire has been above the 1% limit for unlawful acts. My question to the Minister is as follows. How is the cabinet going to show that it follows this serious warning from the Court of Auditors by saying, in line with the party history, with the words of the two directors: this falls into the category 'once but never again'? How do they really take this to heart? And are they going to follow up on that, precisely because at this time of extra pressure and stress, it's important not to turn it into a very crazy day of Accountability next year? Mr. Chairman. That critical remark by the Court of Auditors is largely due to the purchase of Air France-KLM shares under the responsibility of the guardian of the Compatibility Act itself. In March 2019, the Minister spoke about this purchase as "real careful," but during the past year we saw a slow adjustment through "potentially unlawful" in his final opinion "comptable unlawful." The question still lingers a bit as to why he did not say in advance that it was unlawful, as his predecessor Wouter Bos did to the banks, and so too do we know his officials immediately told him. It is still a bit of a strange situation to see that the Minister and the Audit Service state on the one hand that the purchase is unlawful on the basis of 4.7 Compatibility Law............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is also strange that the Minister said earlier that, in the event of different judgments, the Court of Auditors' opinion would lead him. On the basis of which article does the Minister say that there has been unlawful action? If the Court of Auditors is not leading and is being held to the Audit Service's report, which we do not have, is he prepared to share it with the Chamber? I'd like to get an explanation of that. I think the Court of Auditors was right to say that we, as a Chamber, then agreed to that. We have cracked critical notes in that debate, but I think that we are all here to learn, above all, lessons that we can use in the future, so that we or our successors will not be here next year to discuss this very point, when we could have discussed it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u86	I think Mr Sneller's excellent questions are excellent. It is also right that he should say: it was legitimate at first and then moved on. If you want to learn lessons for the future, you have to acknowledge exactly what's going on. Does Mr Sneller agree with me that the Minister does not actually do that in his response to the Court of Auditors? He himself does not acknowledge that it has not gone well and that it has not been lawful. I myself have often asked for this, and in debates he says time and time again: everything has gone carefully. I've been looking into it, but that doesn't seem to be the case. Does Mr Sneller agree with me that today the Minister must acknowledge that he has not acted lawfully and that the Court of Auditors has made a proper analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u87	The problem is that he did do the first thing, namely admitting that it is not lawful, but referring to another reason or reason why it should be so than the Court of Auditors. I think it would be a good idea for us to have a joint opinion on this. I follow the Court of Auditors in that. It's about informing the Chamber. As a member of the working group, Mr Nijboer, together with Mr Van der Linde and other colleagues, has done a good job of ensuring that it is now in place and that we also know how we want to be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u88	I am pleased that Mr Sneller indicates that he accepts the Court's opinion, because I also think that we should attach great importance to this and that we should therefore also hear a little more from the Minister than we have heard so far. The Minister should also admit that he made a mistake and that it will not happen again in the future. What the Council of State also points out is that the reason the Minister has put forward, namely the Market Abuse Regulation, did not prevent him from properly informing the Chamber. The Court of Auditors also indicates that. Then the argument used by the Minister so far to justify his actions seems to be completely gone, and he should clearly promise here that that was wrong and that he will not do so anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u89	For the many listeners at home: that market abuse is Article 4.7, which I referred to. On the one hand, you're right. I think that should be acknowledged. On the other hand, you are also failing the Minister, because in the debate we had earlier on Air France-KLM in the Old Hall, which Mr Van Dijck also referred to, the Minister said: I am glad that the information protocol is there and I will follow it. I think it is a good thing that the Minister acknowledges that once again, but I think Mr Alkaya is failing the Minister by saying that he has not shown that he wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u90	Finally, Mr President. The Court of Auditors also points out that it is impossible to make a protocol on how to inform the Chamber for all situations in the future. One thing is certain, and that is that every minister has a constitutional duty to the Chamber. The responsibility for doing this properly lies with the Minister, even if there is no protocol. Well, that's leading, isn't it? Then today, the Minister must admit to much more and promise to be better than he has done so far. This isn't enough, is it? Because until now, the Minister of ours has always asked for an understanding of his balance. He's always talked about a tension field, which, in retrospect, wasn't there at all, as we're told by the High Colleges of State. I didn't need a field of tension like that. Of course there are different legal bases, but nothing prevented the Minister from informing us properly. Shouldn't he have admitted today that he should have done better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u91	Mr Alkaya pretends to give synonyms in his different wordings, but there is still a world of difference between them. Failing to adopt that protocol, with which there had been something that had actually provided the Minister with an opportunity to act... The Minister rightly refers to this by saying that this was complicated. At the same time, that is no excuse not to inform us. We have now established it and therefore there is a way to do so in this kind of situation. We in the Finance Committee also said that we understand that there should be more rules than just what was already in the Rules of Procedure, otherwise we would not have adopted that information protocol either. But it builds on those Rules. That's leading, but it builds on it and it also specifies it. This seems to me to be a good step, which we have now finally taken and of which history has come up a number of times. Mr. Chairman. Most people here know the video where six people throw over a ball, with the instruction at the beginning: count how often the people with a white T-shirt throw over the ball. I won't tell too much about this video for those who haven't seen it yet, but at the end the pretty big monkey comes out of the sleeve. In my opinion, this video also contains a wise lesson for us, because politicians are busy making other plans for a large part of the time. I will not say that life is of course what is happening in the meantime, but Accountability Day is always a rough confrontation with the need to keep the basics in order and how badly we actually succeed in doing so. The Secretary of State takes his pen! Because, indeed, in recent years, headlines have often been about ICT after Day of Accountability. This year, of course, that questionable honour went to another three-letter abbreviation. However, there is little reason to be satisfied with this ICT. I repeat it to Mr Van 't Wout. For example, the Court states that the Court is informed about the establishment of new systems, but not about maintenance, while maintenance is maintained and, in any case, about three quarters of the total ICT expenditure of the Empire. How will the Secretary of State improve this information? I think Mr Van 't Wout's suggestions to do it more frequently, for example, are good. In addition, the Court recommends that more use be made of ethical hackers. Can the Secretary of State undertake that in the coming year, in all the places where the Court of Auditors has found an imperfection, those ethical hackers will be used for so-called pen tests? For example, can we work with specialist companies? Furthermore, the Court of Auditors is breaking hard on information security, particularly in the Foreign Affairs Department, for the third year in a row. It is not just about anything, because it is very risky for our international security and the reliability of our diplomacy. I would like to get the commitment that this was the last time we had to talk about the vulnerabilities in that department. The corona crisis led to policy making that strongly focused on a number of goals: the ic-capacity, R, the number of deaths. There was a lot to go for that. The Monitor Broad Prosperity was of course meant to reduce the obsession, or focus, on another indicator, namely GDP. However, the monitor may also be useful in the near future as a tool to capture and monitor the negative effects of the corona policy. Is the cabinet prepared to see if, in addition to the indicators of the coronadashboard that has already been proposed, we can also use the indicators from the Monitor Brede Prosperity, to supplement them, to broaden the picture? Although the corona measures have probably provided one small green light in recent weeks, namely climate and nature, the signals on these points have been firmly red in recent years. There is therefore a need for structural improvement. The question to the Minister is: when are we going to see the change that is needed? How is the cabinet going to use that monitor to demonstrate that in advance, as required by Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act? For example, in showing how guarantees and investments that are helping us through this crisis also help us move to the new green economy. Mr. Chairman. "Getting the ground straight" also means paying attention to these implementation problems in the government. In 2019, the Chamber has often considered the Tax Administration, and rightly so. A small point of light in the accountability investigation is that at the end of 2019 more systems were in order at the Tax Administration than not. At the end of 2018 that was the other way around. A nice step, but it doesn't sound reassuring either. And that's all about the IRS. This time of crisis requires a great deal of implementing organisations which have already had a difficult time. Political expectations are once again skyrocketing, and the feedback "unfulfilled" is far from being met. Just like old times, I'd almost say, and that's not what I mean in a positive way. How does the cabinet strengthen rather than overload the implementation at this time, now in crisis management but certainly in the aftermath? Because we should all remember what happened to it during the previous crisis. It does not help if one part of the government feels responsible for the policy and another part for the implementation. In the debate on the surcharges at the beginning of January, the Prime Minister admitted that also commissioning ministries would be better involved in the search for a solution. My question is what has happened since then to make policy departments really problem owners of those implementation problems? Mr President, I will conclude. I hear you thinking: despite the good starting position of 2019, this fairy tale cannot end well. But you know: optimism is a moral duty. We are not doomed to repeat our past mistakes if we learn the right lessons. To speak to Hans van Mierlo: you have not had the past but in the past. No one says it's easy, but it can be. More about this in the debate on the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u92	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Mr Nijboer has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are special times, and it is a good thing that we are having the debate on responsibility for last year. Of course, the results of last year's policy also depend on the political choices of this right-conservative cabinet. At the General Reviews and the Financial Reviews of the previous year, we made substantially different proposals than the Cabinet. We have drawn attention to the public needs that exist. Concerns about the quality of education and the educational disadvantages that are being experienced. Children of another generation, who are in danger of falling further and further behind. The housing shortage that still prevails in the Netherlands and which we as a PvdA feel the cabinet is doing too little about. Income equality is also a major problem. And sustainability, which really has a lot to do. The cabinet does something about it, but in the end it doesn't get enough results. Mr. Chairman. So that's exactly what you see when you look at the broad responsibility of the cabinet. What are the results in these areas? They are lagging behind the priorities chosen by the cabinet. The reduction of the profit tax............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is the biggest success of 2019 in terms of the size of new policies. But in all these other areas, I believe that the cabinet is lagging behind, given what would be socially necessary. Investing more in education, solving housing problems and supporting the lowest incomes so that debt does not increase too much: previous speakers pointed out. That is my main assessment of last year's government policy. That's too bad, because those choices were there. We didn't know at the time that the corona crisis was coming, so we could have made those public investments. Mr. Chairman. I come to the points raised by the Court of Auditors. You won't be surprised if I start with Air France-KLM. The Court of Auditors' opinion on this is harsh: the finance minister has spent 744 million illegally, while he should be the guardian of budget law. That's harsh. I have already pointed this out in the first debate and also in subsequent debates. I said that I had great concerns about the Court's budget law and the way in which the Minister handled it. The Court of Auditors mentions seven points. I admit that not every point is equally relevant. The place of meetings is, in a formal sense, relevant, but I do not think that is the most important. What I think is very important, for example, is that the Chamber always decides who is present and who is informed. The Minister has appointed the MPs. It is really crucial that that can never be left to a minister. It's really important for the Warrior to be there. Why? It has a constitutional position, which also makes it possible for the Chamber to hold a confidential consultation and then to table a motion not to grant the budget right. All these possibilities have been taken from the Chamber. That is why the Court of Auditors is so critical of this. We were not allowed to inform the chairman of the group. This is important in crucial matters. It's not for nothing that SNS REAAL could. To outline the proportions: SNS REAAL was a much larger case in terms of impact, size and risk of leaks than KLM-Air France, with only stock prices. Really. If it had been leaked then, you would have had a bank run in the Netherlands and perhaps in Europe. We have been correctly informed for many months. So it could have been, it was there, but the Minister has consistently maintained in his letters of office by saying: I have done well. That was followed by a shift, as Mr Sneller said. I admit that. But the Minister has always said: I have done well, I have done everything right, I have done everything as recommended by the De Wit Committee. Even now that the Court of Auditors finds that it has acted unjustly and has given a harsh judgment, the Minister says: "I thank the Court of Auditors for understanding this difficult balance between market legislation and Parliament." No, the Court of Auditors didn't say that. The Court of Auditors said that there are opportunities to do it and you have left it behind. This Minister is responsible for the Court's budget law, exercising it and supervising your colleagues. And what's he saying? He says: I will keep a sharper eye on my colleagues. No, this minister is the one who's violating budget law. That is a fundamental right of parliament. I expect the Minister to take this seriously and not run away from it. He doesn't seem to want to admit his own wrong. I think that's really serious. The Minister will have to explain this, and really much wider than he did in the response. He will also have to acknowledge that he was simply wrong in the previous debates, even in response to questions I have asked. This Minister finds that difficult, but he will have to do so. Consultants went for MPs. You can just read it. Mr. Chairman. Then on the content of the case KLM-Air France. What the hell was bought? We can only talk about the process, but what was bought of influence? In June last year agreements were made on the administrative relations, the supervisory board, the Dutch position, the hub function and the economic importance for the Netherlands. Those appointments still haven't been made. Together with my colleague, Paternotte, I have frequently asked: what is the situation? We see it again today. The Netherlands voted by 14% against a pay increase for the French top man, but what has been achieved? I did expect that we would have some influence on that at this time. What does the Minister achieve with this stock purchase? Account must also be taken of this. Mr. Chairman. I come to another point, the NAM/Exxondeal, which happened to be in the news today. The PvdA Group has opposed this compensation for the "oils" with a hand and a tooth. They've already made enough money from Groningen, as well as the state by the way. They're responsible for the damage and they've also been responsible for the damages, but they made such a mess out of it. They've broken the Groningers' lawsuit that the State has taken over. They are now demanding compensation again because less gas is extracted to improve the safety of Groningen. It's insufferable. And now they find that 90 million advance, which cannot be established as legal by the Court of Auditors, too little and an arbitration procedure is being initiated. I ask the Minister how he looks at the policy freedom that ministers have to enter into agreements with private parties that can no longer be reversed. I have seen that with the agreement on main lines with Shell and Exxon. We are now much more involved as a Chamber than we were last time. We will be informed about this additional deal. There have been confidential briefings and there has even been a confidential AO on my initiative. I think it is a good thing that ministers can sign a contract with a private party, which we are simply stuck with. Shouldn't that be changed? Finally, Mr President, my final point. Because it's particularly important in these times, I'll go into the travel advice that Foreign Affairs gives. Research has been carried out; the Court of Auditors could not have foreseen how relevant that is now. With a travel advice you can get green, yellow and red. On that basis you will also be reimbursed through the cancellation insurance and compensation will be paid if you have booked a flight ticket. It's just a tan coming out. There's no system behind it. That's pretty serious, right now. I ask the cabinet how it is going to improve this, because it is very undesirable that there should only be a tan without knowing on what basis that decision is taken. The Court of Auditors has quite rightly pointed that out. I think that the cabinet really needs to get to work to improve that as quickly as possible, because this has a huge impact on people and, by the way, on the travel industry, which is already on apegaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u94	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Twenty-three quarters of continuous economic growth, five years of continuous decline in unemployment. It's different times. Mr. Chairman. We are now looking with gratitude at the financial buffers that this cabinet and previous cabinets have built up. Despite all the political pressure to potter, the wisdom of Viceroy Joseph has proved itself. Yet there is more than financial capital. 2019 was also a year in which our natural capital was further reduced. Where Klaas Knot gave our economy the figure 9 in January, the broad prosperity monitor shows that these good figures are at the expense of what we leave behind for future generations. Also when it comes to our social capital we see one generation with a lot of red indicators: generation Y, the 25-to-35'ers, the starters. Especially when it comes to living. This group is dependent on flexible employment contracts, is often dependent on hiring, has to deal with long waiting lists and is forced to seek refuge in more expensive homes, so there is no right to rent surcharge. In short, they have triple bad luck and towering housing costs. Mr. Chairman. There are also critical notes to crack in the sphere of accountability. Air France-KLM has already been mentioned, so I agree with that. I would also like to endorse what Mr Nijboer said when it comes to the deal with the NAM. Those are very legitimate questions. I just want to ask what the Minister of Finance is going to do about this. Mr. Chairman. The Court concludes that more than one third of the VWS grants raise questions about legality. The Ministry increasingly chooses to circumvent State aid rules by labeling something as a service of general economic interest. This happened yesterday, for example, with the subsidy scheme for abortion clinics. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that all subsidies are subject to the State aid test in order to create a level playing field? How do we prevent the Court's budget right from being further undermined in the cost of care? In the meantime, 24% of long-term care, which has been funded by contributions, is financed by budgetary resources. This is expected to increase to 37% in 2023. Parliament and the Court of Auditors have much less control over premium-financed expenditure. This is undesirable, says the Christian Union. What steps does this Finance Minister take to get this thing back in hand? In two years' time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs' plan to free 2,000 homes of natural gas has come to nothing. Only a few homes are made natural gas free. The money disappears into endless talking circuses. Can the Minister reflect on the lack of results? How is it that the pace of transition is so low? The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau says that the experimental gardens for gas-free living are now mainly there for an elite leading group. This creates a group of green empires. On the contrary, the Christian Union wants those who can best use a lower energy bill to be the first to be addressed. After all, we have a task to make old neighbourhoods future-proof and comfortable. Why does this cabinet not use this rhythm of replacement by using the impact of housing corporations? Is the Cabinet prepared to take control of the government here? 'Cause that's not gonna work out. An earlier evaluation than in 2022 seems appropriate after this hard analysis. I'd like a response. Finally, these financial buffers, or rather the lack of them, for households, but also for companies. Profit-making companies got into trouble once sales dropped. Financial buffers seem to be small. For some companies owned by venture investors, this is even the earning model: filling up with debt, paying out as much dividends as possible, not reinvesting in innovation and not paying attention to the long-term survival of the company. This calls for the Minister's reflection. How can we value equity again more and fiscally facilitate debt financing less? Despite the good steps taken by the cabinet on this issue, more is needed. What will the Cabinet do with these insights in the run-up to the forthcoming Tax Plan? The debate on good companies and bad companies is right, especially when it comes to state aid. The Cabinet has decided that state aid for individual companies will only be granted under conditions of reciprocity, long-term value creation and enterprise of Rhineland-Palatinate. Those are exactly the right words, but that is why I expect action from the cabinet. Provide those conditions of teeth. Make them concrete, on the way to less Anglo-Saxon predatory capitalism and more Rhineland-Palatinate economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u96	It is nice to hear the term "Rhineland model" again. How would Mr Bruins Rijnlands see banking? Is there another view of this in his view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u97	Sure. The scientific institute of the Christian Union has a very nice booklet. I would very much like to give it to Mr Baudet. It's called Rhineland works. This is about all these aspects of Rhineland-Palatinate's economy. That booklet was written by Carola Schouten; it was written by her editors. Rijnland's banking is also one of them. Our banking system has been prey to Anglo-Saxon thinking for the last 20 to 30 years. The Christian Union is in favour of a bank where you can just save, put your savings, where your salary ends up, where the government has much more influence and where the investment drive plays less the leading role. We are in favour of a bank with attention, a bank with a human dimension, a bank that is really there again for SMEs, a bank that is really interested in investing in companies that it trusts. That's all Rhineland banking. It seems wonderful to see another fine example of this in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u98	I think so, too. I just think that this is incompatible with the policy of quantitative easing that the European Central Bank has been pursuing for almost ten years. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u99	I fully agree with Mr Baudet. Quantative easing is a disaster for our continent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u100	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u101	Mr. Chairman. This is the third time we've had the broad-welfare monitor. Last year I used the athlete's metaphor that uses doping. The higher level of prosperity of the here and now we maintain by using the stocks of later, of the young and future generations, and the stocks of elsewhere as doping. This is not something we invent, the indicators indicate it. In 2019 this cabinet could have tried to get rid of its addiction and become a good steward. Instead, 2019 became the year in which the biggest nitrogen emitters were spared and solutions were sought with "maybe we should point out less natural areas." 2019 became the year in which we simply adjusted standards to stay within the limits. I'm talking about pfas here. 2019 became the year in which it was undeniable how the government avoided its duty of care for years and did not take any additional measures to protect its population in the climate crisis. I call Urgenda. 2019 became the year in which human rights and animal welfare had to give way again to economic gain from large-scale world trade. I call it CETA. 2019 became the year in which multinationals and the super-rich are still allowed to avoid tax, while very normal people turned out to be mercilessly and unjustly reclaimed childcare allowance. Finally, unfortunately, it was also the year in which warnings for the risk of zoonoses were launched. And so 2019 became a lost year. The Broad Prosperity Monitor shows that a number of sad environmental and biodiversity developments are taking place in 2019. The nitrogen surplus is among the highest in Europe, the share of renewable energy among the lowest. Furthermore, after one neutral development, all indicators give the picture of a decline in biodiversity. Record volumes of biomass and metals have been imported, including metal imports from the poorest countries. We are re-importing the largest amount of biomass in the EU. More than last year. And our greenhouse gas footprint also increased again. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the conclusion must be that we are not going to use less doping but more. After all, the greenhouse gas footprint has increased compared to 2018 and more has been passed on to later and elsewhere. Does the Minister recognise that this is also the conclusion of the CBS because of the hairs of the eyes? Mr. Chairman. The Broad Prosperity Monitor also states that not all broad welfare aspects have grown one-on-one with GDP in recent years. In my view, this minister knows very well that if something does not grow one-on-one with GDP, it will then decline relatively. You're only working on a better world when broad prosperity growth exceeds GDP growth. Does the Minister recognize that? And on the contrary, if GDP grows faster than broad prosperity, can you still speak of good stewardship? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. 2019 was also the year in which this minister surprised us with the purchase of state interest in Air France worth 744 million euros. The Court of Auditors has held that this was incompatible, and the subtitle of the State of the National Account 2019 reads: "Does emergency law break?'. We asked Parliamentary questions about it and we are waiting for the answers, but can the Minister explain here exactly what understanding of "emergency" he used to justify breaking the law? Mr President, concluding. The 2019 Broad Prosperity Monitor shows that prosperity in the here and now has not become more sustainable for future generations and for people elsewhere. And the massive changeover that is needed requires high levels of investment in the order of magnitude that is currently covered by the emergency packages. It is therefore incomprehensible to my group that green and fair conditions are not the guiding principle in taking the billion-dollar measures. Science tells us that we have to get to work and the corona crisis shows daily that we can. Mr. Chairman. I repeat, you will only be working on a better world if broad prosperity growth exceeds GDP growth. Does the Minister agree? And what lessons has the Minister himself learned from the lost year 2019? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u102	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Mr Van Otterloo has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's like today we're watching an episode of Other Times, across a whole other world that's way behind us. Therefore, in these times of corona, there is no broad reflection on the surplus of 14 billion on the budget, the almost full employment and the lowest public debt in a generation. That is something to be quiet about when you look at the jet black reality of a deadly and debilitating disease, which affects several generations but especially the elderly and disrupts the economy, and thereby makes you realize that there are other things that are really important in life. That's why I'm starting the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Because it's more than just money that determines our prosperity. When you compare all the different elements between generations, you notice that the 55-plussers and especially the 65-plussers are getting off badly. There are more negative than positive scores. Look at the expectations for healthy life years for women, where we are now ranked 23 out of 28 European countries. The average Dutchman would be inclined to think that we are getting old healthy. The opposite is the case. Really worrying is that these groups have much less confidence in others and confidence in institutions. Is that the auspicious work of the participatory society and the withdrawing government? Unemployment among older people is also much higher than among younger age groups. The shifting AOW age doesn't really help. They also suffer much more from environmental pollution in their environment than others. That's just a grasp of the negative scores of older generations. The question is what lessons this cabinet draws from these scores, which are even worse than the year before. This budget was presented on Princess Day in September 2018. And on meatloaf, almost two years later, account will be taken of how things really went. The fact that the promises in purchasing power have not been fulfilled again, with purchasing power dropouts of 0.7% for pensioners and 0.5% for workers, was expected, but is now less relevant compared to the violence of all corona-related measures and the consequences that this has for the Dutch of all ages and all backgrounds. But I still have a question, in the context of this accountability, about the expenditure on the AOW, which, to our surprise, has been raised by 1.2 billion in comparison with the draft budget, while at the same time being lower in implementation. How can there be such a difference between the draft budget and this amount? What has the correction been needed as for the VAT compensation? I'd like some clarity. I agree with what Mr Nijboer said about the NAM and the General Court because I was also very concerned about what the cabinet was doing at the beginning. I also launched the proposal to hire the parliamentary lawyer. In this respect, we would like to see a more fundamental consideration of how the government can bind the State without violating the Court's budget law. Mr. Chairman. Looking to the future is the question of what fundamental changes will come. I'm just gonna start with a usual suspect. Because of the retirement robbery, 50PLUS has been in the trenches for a long time. Our fight against artificially low interest rates and against non-indexation now seems to be entering a new phase. There is plenty of speculation that the forecasted yield will be decisive instead of your arm calculations. In other words, that is what was already stated in the initiative proposal of 50PLUS, but it is aligned here. If, according to reports, the transition to a new system is facilitated with a higher forecasted return, that would be a profit. If solidarity is maintained and there are reparations for the elderly, then 50PLUS can mean that we are coming out of the trenches and that peace can be signed. Another point we can look forward to is the disappointing way in which the government is prepared for the kind of disasters like corona. We have few strategic stocks to effectively control major crises. Reports on these kinds of disasters have unfortunately proved to be loading. No iron supplies. None of the reports came up. That's why we're asking what lessons we're taking to the next Millions note. Can we expect something for disasters in that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Mr Stoffer has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u105	Mr. Chairman. In this Accountability debate we look back on the past year. Is our money well spent and is it legally spent? However, as far as I am concerned, we are also making a direct look at it, because there have been quite a few improvements, particularly by the General Court. Mr. Chairman. 2019 was, like previous years, a good year for the state treasury, but whether that was felt by everyone in the wallet is another question. I think it is also intended for another debate. What I want to conclude here is that it is a good thing that we have saved up in economically good times for the lean years that are coming. Financial solidity has once again proved its worth. The corona crisis calls for strong government support measures, as several spokesmen have already indicated. These support measures are urgently needed to deal with financial consequences for entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, families, students and many other groups. It's nice that we can use our financial space for this. GDP grew by 1.8%. That is a good percentage in itself, but I am concerned about the contribution of housing investments, for example. This has been falling for a number of years and in 2019 these investments in homes hardly contributed to economic growth. The Monitor Brede Welvaart also shows worrying figures in this area. My question to the Minister is how he will turn this tide. Mr. Chairman. Several have already referred to the Court of Auditors' strong criticism of KLM's acquisition of shares. I had a number of questions for that too, but Mr Nijboer's questions were so sharp and comprehensive that I agree with them. Mr. Chairman. In the previous Accountability debate, I asked the Minister to work on better accountability for the use of taxpayers' money for the energy transition. At that time it was about the SDE+ funds, which the Court of Auditors is also very critical of this year, but now the Court of Auditors is even more critical of the Natural Gas Free Neighbourhood Programme. I would therefore like to call once again on the Minister to better account for the cost of the energy transition. I also like to get a clear response to that. Mr. Chairman. These irregularities are not unique, but unfortunately we have to note that there is no decreasing trend in the number of unlawful acts either. This year even the tolerance limit has been exceeded. That cannot happen again, according to the Court of Auditors. The SGP agrees with that, so my question is what the Minister is going to do about this in concrete terms. Is he coming with extra guarantees? Does it help to evaluate programmes more quickly, especially now that measures taken in the context of the corona crisis may prove to be illegal after all? As far as the SGP is concerned, it is therefore time that, in addition to financial robustness, the cabinet, which is well-structured, also made a commitment to financial legality. Mr. Chairman. Information security and IT management are far from in order. A number of small steps have been taken, but there is still a long way to go. There are still a lot of steps to be taken. The Court even suggests that there is a lack of recognition of the importance of good information security. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he can remove the concerns of the Court of Auditors and also of the SGP. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Luckily, it shows positive signals on many parts. But I also see some disturbing figures. Last year, together with Mr Nijboer, I tabled a motion calling for the full impact of our actions on developing countries to be taken into account. Unfortunately, I do not see much of that in the figures at the moment. On the topic of environment and raw materials we dangle at the bottom of the rankings. My question is how the Minister will improve on this, because surely our prosperity cannot be at the expense of the welfare of the vulnerable in developing countries. Is the Minister prepared to strengthen and encourage existing voluntary initiatives, such as Ilva agreements? I'd also like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Last year the cabinet examined how the Monitor Brede Prosperity can be integrated into the policy cycle. All kinds of interesting options are mentioned, but the cabinet does not make it clear which way of integration is now explicitly chosen. That is why my final question is whether the Minister can clarify this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Looking back on the year 2019, we see that all signals were green, economically speaking. We achieved economic growth, more growth than the countries around us. Businesses recorded record profits and consumer confidence was immensely high. The Prime Minister proudly told his Minister of Finance once in a while giving him approval pats on the back. But 2019 was also a year in which gaps in our society remained completely persistent, such as the gap between people with a fixed contract and people who go from flex contract to flex contract and are therefore constantly insecure, and also the gap between high-income people who received tax cuts and low-income people who had to deal with pension reductions and a huge own risk, an increase in care premiums, rent increases and increase in energy bills. There was also the gap between people who really felt that things were going well economically and people who didn't feel that, the people who missed the growth. They were told by the cabinet that growth had to be tangible for everyone, but they didn't notice it at the end of the month. Mr. Chairman. That last group is now hit hard by the corona crisis. According to DENK, all attention should be focused on not allowing the already existing gap between people to widen as a result of this crisis. This means maintaining our welfare state, a word which had become a dirty word in certain circles, but which has now proved to be very important with the aid measures. In the case of aid measures, it is important that the money also reaches the people who need it. The General Court warns that rules on how we deal with the spending of taxpayers' money are not only meant for the easy moments, but also for crisis time and crisis measures. How is the government going to ensure that there is an insight into the proper use of the crisis funds and that we do not run into the fact that money has been spent illegally next year? How do we make sure the money doesn't go to the people for whom it's not meant? Mr. Chairman. Also 2019 showed that there is still a lot of illegal public expenditure. In 2019, the Empire entered into unlawful commitments with community money for around 2.5 billion euros. This has exceeded the 1% limit. This should not have allowed the government to obtain approval from the Court of Auditors. Copper in the number of illegalities remains the headache file ICT. Striking is the huge increase in the financial administration component. How can you explain this? How is the government finally gonna get the ICT out of business? Mr. Chairman. The biggest mistake that has been mentioned before in this debate is that the Minister acquired a 14% share stake in Air France-KLM in February 2019. In doing so, he blurted out the budgetary rules. He had no permission from parliament to buy about 750 million euros in shares. Therefore, it is all the more worrying that tax money from the Dutchman was transferred outside the rules to a company whose top man gave himself a raise of €65.000 in the same year, up to €585,000. How did this happen? In response to the Court of Auditors, the Cabinet stated that it was aware of the potential illegality in the chosen course of action. How was that trade-off made at the time? Mr. Chairman. In 2019, many cabinet measures also failed to assess whether they had the desired effect, such as the low-income advantage, which allowed employers a maximum of €2,000 to employ a low-income person. EUR 500 million intended for jobs for vulnerable people has not been shown to lead to this, and in practice has been particularly successful in the pockets of large employers. Or think of the investment for the workload in primary education. Together, more than 250 million euros were spent on this in 2018 and 2019, but the Minister has no information as to whether this has actually reduced the workload. How are the measures which the Court of Auditors cannot demonstrate that there is effective expenditure to be reviewed or monitored, so that taxpayers are paid for their money? Also on the occasion of my colleague Azarkan's motion, the Minister of Finance started the Operation Insight in Quality in 2018. When will we get a progress report on this? In order to be able to check properly, complete information is important. I also asked Mr Van 't Wout this question. The Lower House has asked for an insight into the confidential spending plans that trade ministers submit to the Minister of Finance. The Court of Auditors is now in agreement with this. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u108	Mr Slootweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u109	Can Mr Kuzu remind me how DENK voted when it came to purchasing from KLM? 'Cause you had pretty big words about it, about illegality and all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u110	I believe that there was broad support for the initiative in this Chamber at the time, but it is also wise to look at it afterwards. In that sense, we have an institution. It's called the General Court of Auditors. This is an important institution, which takes the trouble every year to see how resources have been spent and whether this has been justified. The Court of Auditors has a very clear opinion on this. I think that we should look very closely at this and not let this happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u111	I'm happy with this freshener when it comes to state law. It is not that I did not think the Court of Auditors was important, but I find it remarkable to hear the beginning of your speech, asking questions and using words as 'unlawful', when it came to whether we should do so, DENK voted in favour. Of course there was some time in between, but I wonder how you rhyme with that. In any case, I cannot fully reconcile the first words with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u112	In my view, there is a broad shared feeling, which is expressed not only by DENK but by several political parties, about the legality of the expenditures that have been made. According to our group, this is independent of the publication that was made at the time to acquire shares in Air France-KLM in order to gain more control over a company that is important to the Dutch economy. That is, of course, separate from the way in which that has happened. The Court of Auditors notes very clearly that this has not been legal and we must learn from this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u113	Thank you. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Today, the cabinet is responsible for the policy pursued over the past year. In 2019 we saw a continuation of the three major projects, the three major themes, which have dominated politics in all Western countries for years now. It is a project, a direction, formed by massive and ongoing immigration, transfer of sovereignty and European unification and far-reaching climate plans. The cabinet, led by CDA and VVD, is therefore carrying out a radical left-wing agenda here and there, with some ifs and buts, an agenda in which there is an attack on the nation state, in which our entire economy is sacrificed for climate hysteria and in which our borders remain wide open to hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. Immigration, therefore, and the transfer of sovereignty and far-reaching climate plans: these are the three major trends in recent years' politics. The policy of the past year was also fully focused on these three trends, starting with immigration. Another immigration record was established in 2019. No less than 110,000 immigrants came net to the Netherlands last year, so after deduction of those who left. Again, these travellers were for the most part from non-Western countries: a huge threat we know from the past; that has been shown time and again for our prosperity, for our security, for our way of life, for peace in the street, for the enjoyable association in schools and so on. Mr. Chairman. It's 110,000 people. So much never came to the Netherlands before in one year. I'll say it again. With all the problems we already have with immigration and integration, this cabinet has managed to re-establish an immigration record. In total, Rutte, if we only look at non-Western immigrants, has already added 278,000 in our country, net. We are talking about a city almost one and a half times the size of Jalalabad or, to keep it a little closer to home, bigger than Eindhoven, with only non-Western immigrants. It is a pity that Prime Minister Rutte is not present today in the debate on responsibility, because I would have liked to ask him how he looks at this. The legacy of ten years of Rutte has in any case been this towering immigration balance. How does he feel about that? Does he not also see that this is untenable for a small, busy country like the Netherlands, which is already so much under pressure from all these waves of immigration over the past few years? What does this worrying trend mean for our country? Where are all these people gonna live? What does this mean for the Dutch who can't find a home already? Where do their kids go to school? What does this mean for the Dutch children who are already in far too large classes and for the teachers who can hardly handle the work anymore? Can the healthcare capacity cope with this massive influx of newcomers? Can women, homosexuals, people with a Jewish background and many other threatened minorities in the Netherlands still be safe on the streets in neighborhoods? Here in the Chamber on days like today, we often talk about the need for extra money for education, extra money for care and extra money for security, but all of this keeps mopping up with the tap open if we do not stop the immigration policy of VVD and CDA. Then there is climate policy. This whole theory of warming up by CO emissions is, of course, extremely dubious, but even if this hocus pocus on the expected rise in sea levels and so on is true, even in the extremely unlikely event that CO has an enormous impact on the climate and it all goes exactly the way the predestiners believe, then all the measures we are going to take now as the Netherlands and those 1,000 billion costs up to 0.00007 degrees less warming in the year would mean so much. So it is completely irrational, also looking at the consequences for our economy, our entire society, our entire prosperity, our housing, our energy supply and our horizons with all windmills, and I also mention our beautiful roof tiles that are replaced by those ugly solar panels. It's really incomprehensible, it's irrational. If we assess the policy of 2019 and look at the immigration records and the Climate Law that has been passed through it that has these consequences for us, it can only lead us to pessimism. In addition, we have also seen that the ban on pulse fishing has become final, that the European Union wants to be able to take binding decisions on budgets and taxes, that steps have been taken towards the unification of a European army, and that, as a result of the crisis of recent months, there are plans to bring much more money to southern Europe, a project that is going on and on. The only point of hope that I see from the past year is that the Forum for Democracy has become the largest in the Provincial State elections, has become the largest in the First Parliament elections, has become the largest member party with twice as many members as the VVD and that next year, not only in Jerusalem but also in The Hague, the renewal, the reconstruction on the horizon, will flourish. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u115	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of the Krol/Van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a debate like this, in which we examine last year's government policy, it is tempting to talk about big things. Today we choose to look at 2019 mainly from older people and other weak groups in society. The responsibility for the Municipal Fund is sufficient, but much is not right. In the annual report of the municipality of The Hague we read that the demand for care has grown strongly and deficits have become structural. They are working on a robust package to solve the deficits. The savings concerned appropriate support and care. We read that The Hague, as well as other municipalities, works with results-oriented indication. So it is not about the number of hours of domestic help, but about the much vaguer "a clean house." Several interest groups have raised their objections. The state attorney also called for a certain number of hours of domestic aid to be promised. It seems a little sadness between all the important government policies we're discussing today, but it affects a lot of people every day. Highly aged people also lack domestic help. Precisely because it seems to be a relatively small problem, I ask: can domestic aid in the Netherlands, especially for the elderly, be in order again? The report on broad prosperity 2019 shows that older people are getting rid of it badly. There is a accumulation of unfavourable conditions for the group of 65-year-olds to 75-year-olds. Does the cabinet want to make an effort to substantially increase the widespread prosperity of older people? Alarming is the low healthy life expectancy for women, which my colleague from 50PLUS also mentioned. How is that possible in a developed country like ours? Other EU countries are doing much better. Is the Cabinet prepared to do something about this? Finally, the towering debts of Dutch households. Debts are expensive. We believe that the reduction of average debt per household should be controlled and, above all, that this is really a cry from me, even at the maturity of the debt restructuring. In particular, the route should be much shorter before going into debt restructuring. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u117	Thank you, Mr. Krol. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I actually want to suspend until 7:15 p.m., but I'm also looking at the rulers. Are you guys okay with that? I understand. That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u118	We will continue with the debate on responsibility for the year 2019. The number of interruptions is six. You can ask up to six questions to both regiments, so you have to decide who you want to ask a question to yourself. So the number of questions is up to six. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u119	Thank you, Mr President. May I also begin by wishing Mr Van der Lee strength. Mr Koolmees and I were in the ministerial room, and I have to say that I had a short flashback to a previous debate that we had with each other not so long ago, where Minister Bruins came across something similar. So I wish him well. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van 't Wout, Mr Van Dijck, Mr Snels and others have indicated that the debate has something surrealistic. Of course, it is always the case at Accountability Day that the year has already come to an end and that we look back. But usually it's part of a trend. Here we are dealing with a water separation of size. For example, Snels and Slootweg also referred to that record employment, which is unfortunately now turning very hard. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the cabinet, I would like to highlight the fact that I think it is really good that we are having the debate, because ultimately it is extremely important in democracy to stick to traditions like last week's. I won't hide that it felt a little strange to cross the Binnenhof with the briefcase. But it is a good thing that we are doing this, because it belongs to the anchors in our democracy. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I want to do. I would like to start with a number of comments on 2019 and in particular on the economic situation in the last year. I will therefore say a few words about the legitimate questions of Snels and others about the economy, what steps we have taken and how they will lie in a legal injustice bath. Secondly, I want to talk about effectiveness, understanding of quality and everything that has to do with it. Thirdly, I would like to talk about broad prosperity. I will also take into account Mr Van Raan's climate questions. Fourthly, I would like to talk about the shortcomings and the unlawfulness. I'll name KLM in that too. As a fifth, I still have a few questions in the other category. Mr Knops will then look at ICT and information security, in fact all those subjects that logically belong to his portfolio. So with your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to do it this way. Mr. Chairman. A number of members have also referred to this over the past year........................................................................................................................................................................................... I am of course aware of the feelings of the various groups in the Chamber. Some might have wanted to make accents different. But it was a time when, at least in a form, we could meet all three priorities. I'm afraid that time is over. Looking back on that year and that period of good economics, it is of course extremely important, especially for me, especially for my ministry, that we should be properly accountable for the revenue, expenditure and management. I am very grateful to the Audit Service, but also, of course, the Court of Auditors, for their findings, and also for their critical comments. Let me say at this point that I take very much to heart the remarks made about the injustices, but also about the shortcomings; the latter has had a little less attention today than last year, for example. Let me also say a few words about the 99% limit and how to deal with it. In everything you pay attention to, you have a reasonable chance of seeing improvement. So on the question of Alkaya, Snels, Faster and a few others how do you make sure you get back on the right side of that 99%... 'Cause, of course, I'm very concerned about that. It is a subject that I have devoted a great deal of attention to, including at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and also with regard to the shortcomings. This means giving a great deal of attention to it, primarily in the Ministry of Finance, in terms of our shortcomings, but also in terms of the task that we have at national level. I have drawn a great deal of attention over the past year, including in the Council of Ministers, to the shortcomings, but I think that the debate on the legitimates should be made more explicit there. My intention was to use at least the Council of Ministers next Friday for this, but I will continue to do so periodically. Is that a guarantee of success? No, of course not, but asking colleagues, in the ministerial staff, in the ministry, every so many months, has an effect. Then you can also see the flaws on the Treasury itself. Mr. Chairman. Then, with regard to the past year and the conclusion that Mr Slootweg drew to the present day. He noted that the buffers may have been somewhat inadequate, not so much on the part of the government, but on the part of private parties. I find that an interesting thought. I'm gonna have to puzzle a little bit longer on how to follow up on his request for an investigation. There is, in fact, the public finances side. There is the business side with a lot of debt financing with which companies finance themselves. That also makes sense, given the low interest rates, but it leads to additional vulnerability. Then, of course, you have our households, where Mr Van 't Wout rightly said that the debt is also subject to a lot of assets. There are pensions on the other side and there are houses on the other side. Nevertheless, that is something we must be honest about. This is a vulnerability in our Dutch system. That's a point where you'd like to increase the resilience further. So I am making the commitment, but I did want to put this context aside, because several spokesmen have asked questions or made comments that are in the process of being extended. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller also made the comparison between last year and the emergency budgets; he talked about careful, economical and additional burden of proof. That is, of course, entirely true and rightly so. In the dialogue I myself had with the Court of Auditors, we also, of course, had a discussion about this. So how are we gonna do that right now? Of course, we're paying extra attention to that. Especially from the Ministry, we try to look with the colleagues in the cabinet and try to do our own work carefully. But it's also a dilemma. Take the first emergency package. It's been rigged in a couple of weeks. There were regulations in place for which the Ministry of Social Affairs usually takes months which is usually more than six months to figure them out properly. However, we had the common ambition to make that happen very quickly in society, among citizens and businesses. So I am not saying this as the beginning of a confession, but the context is extremely important. With all the care we are doing now, my observation is that from the Chamber and from the cabinet there is a lot to be done in a great hurry and that not everything goes well there either. Some comments have been made that we must continue to pay attention to them and I am very concerned about them, but when I see how fast it must be to ensure that we keep citizens and businesses out of the wind, it is not said that we are all doing it with the state of perfection that I would like to wish us. I think Mr Snels asked for something similar in many parts of his speech. I very much agree with that, but I would like to give him the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u120	I believe that we have shown a broad understanding of this during the debate, but my point was precisely that because the requirements of Article 3.1 cannot be met in advance, the burden of proof is all the greater afterwards. For example, in the written consultation with the Minister for Media, I have been given a good insight into how the SBI codes are used in the various professions, but then there is still a demand for effectiveness and that kind of question. At some point, you would like to have a little more insight into the 20 billion that we approved in that first package. Did that turn out okay? That's not what I mean in the blaming atmosphere, as if we should have known in front, but I do want to know how to learn from it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u121	Yeah, absolutely. The previous crisis was a very different type of crisis, but a logical question that occurred to us at the ministry was, of course, what things we learned from the previous crisis. What did you learn macroeconomically from that? What would you like to repeat or not repeat? What were lessons from the specific situation with the banks, for example as regards the conditions you set? To what extent are they applicable or not to companies that are now at the point of contact? To what extent can you apply the logic of bail-in that we are trying to agree on in Europe with regard to banks more widely to all kinds of parties on the sidewalk? If you ask the taxpayer for help, whether it be for transport companies or private parties or any other party, I think it is logical that you should talk to each other about who can reasonably bear what part of the account, appropriate and measuring the circumstances. So I very much agree with that. But if I try to play back for myself just because I agree with the questioners now how extremely much has happened with huge amounts of money, with trajectories that were dramatically much shorter than usual, then I am convinced that we will crack critical notes again in a year's time. I think it's just fair to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u122	Sure. I don't think that's a problem either. However, there must be good evaluation reports for which proper information must be collected during implementation. The cabinet must also have an obligation to carry out an additional evaluation and not just take it into the regular system, so that the successors, if there is a next crisis, can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u123	Sure. So I'll make that commitment right away. I will also draw particular attention to this in the cabinet. However, it is important to highlight once again how the people who are aware of the issues we are talking about are actually all engaged in the second version of the emergency package, for example in the case of Social Affairs, Economic Affairs and Finance, even on weekends. There are quite rightly critical comments here about the fact that, for example, the answer to written questions by the Ministry, where I think we normally have a really good track record, has lasted longer. That's because the same people have to do the same thing. So I understand Mr Sneller's question very well, but I would point out that it has to be on top of the work of the second emergency package and the reflection on next year's budget. So there is a huge workload for a relatively small group of civil servants who work very hard and do very good work in those three ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u124	However, a little more specific about how the Minister imagines that. For me it was at least one of the most frustrating debates I have ever had. It was in 20 billion, with four minutes' speaking time and two more questions. Of course, that was also up to the Chamber itself. But they were also supplementary budgets, which included nothing more than a table and a very brief explanation. So there was no indication of how the Chamber would be going to check later, how this would be evaluated. I get that. We have shown that understanding. The same applies to the second emergency package. There are still political discussions about this. I understand that that is very busy, but then I think that it is time for the same officials who have put it all together and put it all together that they might be taken together, the first package and the second package of supplementary budgets to indicate how we are going to evaluate it. What system is the cabinet going to put behind that? I can assure you that the Court of Auditors will be asking for this next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u125	Sure, that's exactly what I said myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u126	And so is the Room. So how are we gonna do that? How are we going to check that and how are we going to evaluate that? Because Article 3.1 had disappeared under the carpet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u127	Again, I think it's both true. I have just said that I would find it perfectly right if the cabinet immediately reflects on it with an open vision of its own actions and that the Court of Auditors will look at that again, taking into account the context and, I assume, also the measure that always applies and that the Chamber will then again crack notes that are partly critical in nature. You should, too, I guess. But still a little while. I understand very well what Mr Snels is saying, including that table. I think we all remember how quickly things got worse and worse with the crisis. I have already said a number of things about it here in an AO on Thursday. Then, I believe, in a day or four or five, including the weekend, we all prepared for a press conference and sent a letter to the Chamber. Then really with steam and boiling water, especially at SZW and EZK and to a lesser extent at Finance, those arrangements were put together. That was really a matter of weeks. Normally, six to nine months are taken for that. Then it gets all worked out and then it gets double-checked, stressed out and so on. That just didn't happen now. I think that the paper that Snels finds frustrating, I understand that it is a reflection of the crisis we were in and the need to act at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u128	Mr Sneller's point, and also mine, is: do not wait until next year the Court of Auditors is going to carry out those accountability inquiries and have to give answers to the Ministry, but give the AO budgeting and justification around Prinsjesdag, for example, will be a little too soon or just after the summer with which systems, in what way the Minister of Finance thinks we can evaluate these emergency packages, so that we can have a sensible debate on them in the next debate of accountability. So there's some pre-work going on. The Chamber will then be able to watch and will not stand empty-handed if we have another debate on accountability next year, but in a very special way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u129	I am trying to imagine that for a moment, because I think we have been helped to get the Court of Auditors to do the work of the Court of Auditors there. I am, of course, very willing to think about it myself. By the way, I really think that in the very short term there is simply not enough room for reflection. We have, of course, tried to learn from package 1.0 for package 2.0, but that is something else that Mr Sneller rightly asks for in his own right, namely what you have learned from it in the depths of it. We have learned a number of lessons and we have tried to apply them, but take the so-called TOGS. You know one thing for sure: for some of the people it was too little... therefore we have the extended... and some of the people will have got it when they were not entitled to it. We have added working road categories, because we felt that they should be added. Those are three rather fundamental adjustments that we have made, which we did take into account in 2.0, but I'm sure there's much more to criticize if we look back even more fundamentally at a later point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u130	Third question, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u131	Uh, sure, but this is important, Mr. Chairman. Look, article 3.1 is not non-binding. It's a legal requirement. With regard to these emergency packages, we have said: okay, we understand that the cabinet cannot meet them, so it cannot indicate the objectives, effectiveness and efficiency in advance. But that is precisely why it is important for the cabinet to think afterwards about how we are going to evaluate it and come up with a strategy for how this can be done and for the Chamber and the Court of Auditors to look into it. That's not waiting until spring next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u132	No, but I'm just trying to see to what extent we're saying something else. I don't think that's the case. In my opinion, I can understand Mr Snels so that he says: can the cabinet, for example around Princess Day, be able to take a look at it, but I think he will give room there for some time or at some point afterwards, think and share with the Chamber, not so much what the evaluation looks like but on what type of criteria you would like to evaluate? I'd be happy to. However, I believe that the primacy of the assessment of the cabinet itself is not up to the cabinet but to the Chamber, with the help of the Court of Auditors. I think that's the royal route, but of course I'd like to think about it myself. I just want to avoid a misunderstanding in the sense of: well, those are the criteria which seem to be right for the Minister or the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u133	The Minister is coming a long way with his colleagues. That's good to hear. I believe that the Finance Minister can also have a very good role as a model for his colleagues here, because we, as a Chamber, see how much this Compatibility Act is legally necessary and that it is mandatory to say: when have we done well? We want that to be established in advance. The Minister could think about the question of when did we do it right at the end of the summer or before Prince's Day? I realize that we don't have a parallel universe that we can compare it with, but somewhere I would like to have a few concrete handles, so that in a year or two years we can look back on something that we now establish with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u134	Again, I think it's an excellent idea. Assuming we don't need a new emergency package, which I think we all hope, I think the moment should be after Princess Day. 'Cause we just finished 2.0. Let's move on to the budget. To be honest, there is still an incredible amount of work in the barrel, also for that same group of people, who, as some of us know from their own experience, really do work three strokes in the round, just in the period towards Princess Day. So I'd like to mark the moment after Prince's Day. Then I'd like to get on with it. The most important objective is, of course, to know whether the package will bring us what we intended. Well, what did we intend to do? Keeping jobs and helping companies through this difficult phase. It is still too early for a final judgment, but you should at least note that package 1.0 has made an important contribution to this. A parallel universe does not exist, but let me compare it with the United States. That's where people thought: laisser-faire. What happened there? There unemployment has risen very rapidly, much harder than here and in many other places in continental Europe. So my first tendency is to think that the first blow has been worth a dropper, but you don't know exactly what the situation looks like in a few months. Perhaps we will then come to the conclusion that we should have done more or should have done it differently, perhaps less in some areas. That is what the commitment to Mr Snels and Mr Bruins is about. Then I park the moment in this calendar year after Princess Day or as much earlier as possible. Mr Alkaya asked: low government debt, household debt rising. I think that is a right point of attention. I do believe that the cabinet has properly balanced the balance between investing in society, reducing the burden and putting public finances in order, but he is right to say that the debt of households in the Netherlands is a matter of attention, with all the qualifications that go with it, for example that there are assets on the other side, such as pensions and real estate, houses. I think there is a broader mandate for resilience, but I refer to the dialogue I just had with Mr Slootweg in which he asked to look into it. How do you ensure more resilience in medical terms? I am not the first to be responsible for that, but I think there is also a question. How do you ensure this in the area of debt, in the area of households, in the area of public finances? That's not a small job, by the way. Mr Van Raan and Mr Van Otterloo asked what lessons I am already taking from the corona crisis. That does require a lot of introspection at a time when we are still working on it. At the same time, it is quite right to think about it. So I think that time of learning should be a little later. I would therefore ask both gentlemen to allow the cabinet some time to do so. By the way, I would like to say that it is better to do this more broadly and fundamentally with the whole cabinet, rather than doing a brief exercise in this debate. That does more justice to the depth of demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u135	Maybe I didn't put it right. I'll take it right away. I was concerned about what lessons this minister has learned from the successive indicators over the past three years, which indicate that it will not be sustainable at all. How does that relate to the concept of stewardship? These lessons, the lost year 2019: what lessons does he draw from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u136	I hope that I will at least answer Mr Van Otterloo's question. I thought the question was both. I understand Mr Van Raan's question differently now. However, I must say that I cannot endorse the statement that 2019 was a lost year. Because it has been a year in which the government, naturally made possible by money earned by citizens and businesses, has been able to invest very heavily in society, has managed to put the public finances in order by roughly 14 billion extra, has eased the burden and has managed to agree on nature and climate. I think that friend and enemy agree on this. Mr Van Raan thinks that we need to do a lot more about it, and that the cabinet has made a fundamental step change there. We have made a very big move in the area of pensions. For example, there are more topics where, in my opinion, the cabinet has really made great progress, especially in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u137	That's exactly the point I was trying to make in my contribution. I'm glad the Minister actually confirms it. The Minister keeps talking about here and now. They actually went quite well in 2019, but that has been at the expense of the "later and elsewhere." That's what the Monitor Brede Prosperity tells us. So those indicators for later and elsewhere have not improved. In fact, they've deteriorated. In other words, this government has used even more doping for it here and now than the year before. I ask the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u138	I think it's important to put something aside. Because if something is meant for the long term, it's something like a climate agreement. This includes all kinds of plans that are just about the longer term. Mr Van Raan's criticism of the cabinet is: it must be more and faster. I understand that from his political point of view, but he too will agree with me that the movement there is of a completely different order from the movements we have made in the decades before, and that you should, in fact, be very satisfied with the Paris climate agreement, but much less has happened. That is not a reproach, but that is an observation. Pensions as well as pensions. This is a step that we are taking, at very high financial costs, to take into account the situation of all those who are retiring. So these are two main themes that we have taken to further ensure well-being and prosperity in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u139	I'm just looking. For you will return to the broad prosperity and climate. Perhaps you can deal with this question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u140	The whole folder?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u141	Yes, otherwise things will get a little mixed up and Mr Van Raan will lose all his interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u142	I tried to serve Mr Van Raan as a priority immediately. I'd be happy to do it, Mr. Chairman. Do you want me to get the whole map of broad prosperity up and running right now? Then I'll try to do the short version.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u143	I'd like to go back to my place, but we're in a fundamental part of this now. The Minister is right to say that the Party for Animals may want to move faster and more quickly. Science tells us exactly that if we had been before... Well, you can't do that anymore. We can't put time back. The Minister also says that we should be proud of the Climate Agreement. Just today, because of the importance of the here and now, it appears that this cabinet is choosing to postpone the CO levy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u144	So you're going to talk about the climate after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u145	Well, I just wanted to finish up and then I'm gonna go back to my place. But everything the Minister is saying now is about the here and now, while the indicators have been showing for three years in a row, as long as we have them, that the policy is not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u146	I would like to say the following to Mr Van Raan. I take the climate agreement as one example. It's not about me and it's about now, it's about us and it's about later. I understand that Mr Van Raan is anxiously looking forward to the fruits that can and will be reaped from them. Some of them are still decided in the future. I have to agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u147	My questions were more about what the cabinet is actually learning, and then not just the Minister of Finance, but the whole cabinet, about how we are prepared for a crisis such as corona, even where there are loads filled with all kinds of plans. We have already had a discussion on whether monetary financing should be applied to the current burden, yes or no, of a discussion that has already been called for by the WRR. I have no problem with it in itself if there is more reflection on the whole by Princess Day. I understand that it may be too much to ask here today, à la minute, but it is really about the whole cabinet. So it's about VWS and Social Affairs. Then it's about the Labour Market Balance Act, all those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u148	But what's the question, Mr. Van Otterloo? Oh, it was a comment. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u149	It was a remark because the minister asked if he had served me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u150	It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u151	I won't ask that question again. But I hope that Mr Van Otterloo agrees with me that this really calls for broader reflection in the cabinet. Prince's Day is tomorrow, to be honest, when I think about what's still to be done. The subjects which Mr Van Otterloo has put forward here alone are so fundamental that, if we wanted to share all these lessons and discuss them with the Chamber, it would take more time. That must therefore be discussed more broadly in the Cabinet. I'd like to do that, but I don't think that timing is realistic. It is already quite a task to fulfil the commitment I have just made to Mr Snels, who is purely about outlining the contours of the evaluation methodology for the financial and economic package. That is how I understood it, because we are here in the first place with the financial spokesmen. I can come to an end to this commitment myself, but Mr Van Otterloo's question is much wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u152	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u153	Mr Van Dijck asked how, despite all the packages, a lot of jobs could be lost. That is because it is now seen as the most profound financial and economic crisis since the Second World War. This crisis is of another magnitude, even more serious than, for example, the credit crisis. I remember the broad agreement of the Chamber with package 1.0. We have done everything we can with each other, but the reality is that there are still people who are losing their jobs and that there are still companies that are falling over. Quite frankly, I'm afraid that's going to happen. I fear that unemployment will increase and that, unfortunately, more entrepreneurs will also go bankrupt, even with that very substantial second package that we will be discussing with your Chamber tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Dijck asked why Italy is not going to the capital market. I think Italy is also going to the capital market. At the moment, we are discussing with each other what is mutually supportive and sensible in the short and long term. What is reasonable about a country like the Netherlands, but what also creates a stronger Europe in the long term? I would also like to refer to the debates that we have with each other at least once a month. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the second block. That's the block about effectiveness and insight into Quality. I've expressed my great interest in that operation before. We have also often discussed the fact that all the parties involved are on the slippery slopes when they say too much compliments towards the rapporteurs. So I will not do that, but I would like to highlight once again that I really think it is in the interests of all of us and of the country to keep this issue on the agenda and to allow it to be anchored in both the Cabinet and the Chamber. I therefore have an assignment for me to continue to include this in a broader context with colleagues in the cabinet. It would be a good thing if the financial spokesmen could also continue to inspire their colleagues from other committees on this subject, because that is what is needed. Mr. Chairman. Then the second, also in answer to the questions. I must be honest about the fact that over the last three months this issue has received a completely different level of attention than I had imagined in February. Let me give you one example. I had been planning discussions with a lot of regiments to discuss their specific issues, together with the officials. Of course, those conversations didn't take place. We would catch up or do extra work on Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, and then the 2.0 version. That is not so much a new article as a question of how to extend it. We still have to do that. This subject is therefore important, but I do think it is right to be one in the category 'not urgent, but important'. It will remain important and it will continue to draw my attention. Then there is Mr Snels' question about legality and lessons. I think I have tried to answer that. I also believe that I have answered the question about the crisis and the insight of Mr Snels and Mr Sneler. Mr Slootweg asked, as a result of the Court's critical comments, whether we should have taken this into account in terms of Quality? Of course, I asked the same question. In fact, on some of the issues referred to by the Court of Auditors and also in the past, one may wonder why the cabinet or why the Chamber has not thought before: hey, we need to know more about that. Think of it as professional frustration, but that might be a very big word. The Court of Auditors has been able to put forward issues for a few years now, which I shall at any rate allow to speak for myself, but I think that many others in politics have not had enough on the retina and then have a judgment on effectiveness. When you're reading that, you think: hey, that's interesting; we really need to do something with that. Of course, you would like to translate that into a situation in which we, as a cabinet, with or without the Chamber, are proactively calling for attention to be paid to it, so that it should not be the Court of Auditors. That's where you need to go. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked whether, apart from new plans, you would not have to place existing expenditure along a more critical measuring bar. Yes. Each minister is responsible for periodic examination, effectiveness and efficiency on the basis of the Compliance Act. There is also a lot about this in the strategic evaluation agenda. That doesn't change the fact that, with everything that's going on, I do recognize it. 98% of the budget is a continuation of the budget for the previous year and for that year. That's what we're gonna do with each other. The critical questions are usually about new policies and much less about the continuation of old policies. I agree with Mr Slootweg, but I do not have a detailed answer, on top of what I have just said, to the question of how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u154	I wonder a little what Understanding Quality is good for as an instrument. Could you say that it works better when it comes to new projects rather than existing ones? That is actually the background to my question. Do you really need the old policy review for those old projects? Or isn't that how it works in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u155	Frankly, I think that by adapting Article 3.1 to new plans from January 2018, we have really changed something. I say that without any self-congratulation; it was not my bill either. In particular, the Compatibility Act monitors and assists with the new plans. I honestly think that, because the bulk is continuing what we already had, like the ibos and all other types of evaluations, a lot of good work is happening. Significant changes in policy are difficult. They are found difficult to say in all honesty by cabinet members and often by MPs, because it means a lot to put a line through large pieces of existing policy. That's also the case, let's just be very honest about it, because in politics it's important that if you think something's important, you allocate money to it. That's perfectly understandable. That's the signal you can give. However, it has not been said that all this money will then be used effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u156	Finally. Does this mean that, in a kind of preparation for the completion of this cabinet period, what insights from Insight in Quality could be helpful in the current policy reviews and assessments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u157	Isn't it an idea to pick that up next time we have a broader discussion, whether or not we are inspired by the rapporteurs? Otherwise, I think I will give you an answer that goes a long way in the direction, but is not specific enough. Mr Slootweg agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u158	I see that everyone nods in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u159	Mr. Chairman. In this chapter I have one more thing, which was asked by Mr Slootweg and which Mr Van 't Wout was also moderately enthusiastic about, I thought I could see in an interruption. That's the question of how to deal with these spending plans. That is a question which I understand from the Chamber, but which also raises tension with the role played by executive power and the role played by controlling power. What I would like to add is that we are really taking a step in that direction with the pilots, precisely in the context of Understanding Quality. That is precisely where we go much further in sharing and discussing the spending plans. To be honest, I would like to get on with that. If that is so much enthusiasm in the Chamber to go forward with it, we should decide on a broader cabinet council and see to what extent we can respond to it. I understand the wishes of the Chamber. At the same time, I believe that we must also ensure that we remain stable. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u160	Wide prosperity, and Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u161	Wide prosperity. Yes, then I must immediately think of Mr Van Raan. It's tempting to say that I've actually answered all of his questions, but that's not entirely true, so I'm not doing it. Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me stress that on this subject, which has received a great deal of attention from a number of Members of Parliament in particular, I think we have taken some real steps, because it is important to take it again. We haven't always done that with the precision and speed that some people imagine, but we've been doing it for a few years now, and I think you should say that it does have added value. It enriches the debate on Accountability Day, but it also broadens the discussion in the right way, and some who may have been sceptical about it before see the added value of it. When you look at that monitor, you can see there's a lot of positive things in it. At that point, I do disagree with Van Raan. The quality of life in the Netherlands is high compared to that in many other places. That is very important, because it means that people, whether they are low-literate or highly literate, whether they have a small or large scholarship, whether they live in the city or in the countryside, whether they are young or old, have a high quality of life. There are differences, but generally the quality of life in the Netherlands is high. At the same time, there are also concerns. Van Raan rightly refers to climate, nature and renewable energy. So there are still a lot of assignments left. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked whether we would be prepared to define it even more explicitly. He makes it even more complicated; he also wants to link it to specific crisis policies. For the record, in a way, we are already doing that. Of course, the policy is aimed at much more than the economy, especially now. It focuses on financial and economic matters, such as the maintenance of income, but also, for example, on the education of vulnerable children in the summer and on training for people who have to leave their current sector or at least their current job. We're going to have that debate tomorrow. Honestly, I guess we're doing a lot of those things. I am talking with other ministers to the planning agencies about how they can help to understand these effects. I would hope that would provide an answer which Mr Snels can use. So I am not referring so much to my answer now, but to the answer that the planning agencies come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u162	The first commitment cost me three questions. Let's see if we can do it in two questions. The Minister is very good at the way things have been over the past period. In the middle of the crisis, the cabinet and the ic-capacity, as well as the economy, together with the support packages and the lockdown measures had to coordinate. We are putting the budgets in a slightly different situation. It's still about economy, but it's also about care, about human relations and relationships, about elderly people and loneliness. I can easily imagine that these are important issues for colleagues in the cabinet. We have now often had this debate on the integration of broad welfare indicators. That is difficult, but isn't it an idea to ask the cabinet to define the objectives specifically for the corona policy, which really is more than economics and finance, but is broader about society? What are we going to propose in the budget over the next year that policies affect that broader welfare aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u163	I have to interpret Mr Snel's interim remark if he is given too many commitments, both in relative terms and in absolute terms, I think. But I think we're already going a long way in the direction he's asking for. I really think that the Planning Bureau can be helpful in this; that is better than doing so exclusively as a cabinet. However, I would like to refer once again to the examples I have just given. Take that education, for example. Why do you do that? You do this because there are now months in which some of the children at home have received education from dedicated parents, but some of the children that unfortunately haven't been shared. Those children may have tried to avoid their homes as much as possible, in the most terrible case, because the situation is not safe for them. But the reason can also be less extreme, for example that parents don't have the time, the energy or the dedication to it. That is, of course, extremely sad; let us be honest about that. That is precisely why the Ministers for Education have come up with the plan to see if there is anything to be done about it. I do not know if there is a specific learning objective and then a test that children have to take at the end of the summer. I'm guessing that's not the case. But I think we can see that this summer slide always exists, and that it is always an unreasonable part of the children of weaker families. In stronger families, that summer slide plays a lot less. Of course, the ministers want to do something about that. They want to make sure that children are part of their backwardness. So I'd be happy to put that question there again. How concrete can you make that? But I think that, in conjunction with the Planning Bureau, we should come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u164	A second question. That education is just a good example. That is why I take the cabinet policy of the past two months as an example. That's a good example of how you do that, but you do that à l'improviste. You see what's coming, you have to act, you set goals and you make policy. In the budgets, we look forward a little bit longer. You have all these welfare indicators, such as education, care and loneliness in the elderly, but also economics and finance. This is a time to look in conjunction at what you, as a cabinet, want to set broad-welfare goals for the coming year. I think it's such a great opportunity to try that out. It seems to me to be such a fine job for the cabinet, and not just for this minister, for the forthcoming budget. Exactly how to do that, I don't know, but why don't you try it? Because we have been having this debate for three years now. That's Groundhog Day: every time we try... I'm kidding. Steps are being taken forward, but try to do so with very concrete targets on those different welfare indicators. That's an assignment for all your colleagues in the cabinet. Write that in those budgets: what is the connection between them and what are we going to have next year's debate on the Accountability debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u165	If we're not careful, Mr. Snels sees a Groundhog Day every day. I would not wish that on him, and I do not think there is any reason for that either. We also have to count the blessings we do have here. I personally have this debate for the third time now. I believe that all kinds of important points have been raised in these debates, not only from the coalition, but also from opposition parties, which have really embraced the cabinet. That's what we said: we can work with that. I mention those specific examples precisely because Snels himself made the link to the crisis, because my suspicion, although I do not know those plans at detail level, is that in education there is a burning need to help vulnerable children, without measuring exactly what progress was on count or on language. I suspect so, but I'm not sure. I should ask the Minister of OCW. So I am quite prepared to start the conversation with colleagues in the cabinet who are working within the crisis package on the things that have more to do with society than purely with the economy. I have just said that the planning agencies have to look into this too, because they are simply good and objective at doing so. Let's do that, and devour all the other dishes Mr Snels is trying to serve at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u166	Mr. Van Raan. Were you actually done with this subject, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u167	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u168	Maybe you could finish this first. Then you will have the floor, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u169	Mr Sneller asked when we would see a change in climate policy. As far as I am concerned, the fundamental step was taken last year. In addition, the Chamber is, of course, aware of the government plans around Urgenda and nitrogen. On climate and corona support package, I say that tomorrow we will have the debate on financial and economic issues. Perhaps from Mr Sneller's perspective there is also a climate in this. I think we should talk about it then, as long as it doesn't belong anywhere else at all. It seems to me first of all to the Minister of EZK because of the "K" of "Climate" in his title. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels and Mr Van Raan spoke about nitrogen and the nitrogen surplus. I understand the importance of the subject, but I think it really belongs in the nitrogen debate. Mr Slootweg asked if I would be prepared to have the Audit Service investigate various models on which expectations of effectiveness are based. That sounds quite broad, but he then made it all wide because he talked about the electric cars and the fast cycle paths and the natural gas-free neighbourhoods; not natural gas-free weeks, but natural gas-free neighbourhoods. I understand that need, and I'm willing to look into it, but I think we should choose it. This palette of subjects is also wide again. I understand the inspiration very well, also given what the Court of Auditors said. Let me talk to the Audit Service and look at what needs to be looked at in particular, precisely given these issues. Mr Slootweg once again asked about natural gas-free neighbourhoods, but I think I answered that. Mr Stoffer also made an urgent appeal, I think rightly, with regard to the better justification of the energy transition. That is, of course, also included in the climate plan. There is a strong commitment to evaluation. This annual monitoring of climate policy, which is first published this year, I think should be the logical point of reference for the wider debate, but also the moment to see whether the monitor is sufficiently specific and whether it can pass the test of criticism, including Mr Stoffer's. Mr President, I think I have also answered the questions put by Mr Van Raan, or during an interruption or in my replies to the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u170	A great Englishman once said: you have to look at the facts, because the facts look back. That's a bad translation of Churchill's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u171	Poor Churchill's having a hard time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u172	Yeah, poor Churchill. But he remains an inexhaustible source of inspiration. The Minister and I agree for a long time. We both recognize the importance of this Monitor Brede Prosperity. We agree it's a search. We even agree that in the here and now a lot of dots are on green. But that's where the minister actually stopped. And I'd like to take him further in later and elsewhere. Does he see in that Monitor Brede Prosperity, which we have been sharing for three years now, that it is not sustainable here and now when you look at the indicators for later and elsewhere? That's a simple recognition of the facts. It would be very nice if we could recognize those facts together, because then we have another conversation. Then we can continue our conversation in later and elsewhere instead of sticking around in the here and now. Does he recognise the facts as shown in the indicators later and elsewhere and see that it is no longer sustainable here and now? Then we can have a good conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u173	It's almost poetic. I don't have all those quotes ready, but I think that quote wasn't about facts, it was about results. I think the quote was: no matter how beautiful the strategy, you occasionally have to look at the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u174	I'm interrupting, Mr President, because this is also a beautiful quote, but it's a very different one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u175	Okay, let's take another look at that book together. I also agree with the importance of facts and the importance of looking realistically at what is going on. I do think we should also be so honest to note here that the interpretation of the facts on the cabinet, for example as regards climate, is different from that of Mr Van Raan's group and the Animal Party. I am thinking, for example, of Mr Van Raan's much more alarmist tone on this issue. In addition, the cabinet says: we also have a mission in the area of climate. That is why we are coming up with a climate agreement. We think that we are taking really strong steps in this, but we are doing so in reasonable terms and also taking into account what else needs to be done in society. We make the balance different from the Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u176	It is clear that this balance is being changed. I would nevertheless like to invite the Minister to look together at the indicators of later and from elsewhere and to discuss them specifically. 'Cause I don't think I can take him in now. I think he'd rather stay in the here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u177	You're trying to get in touch with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u178	Yeah, that's right. I'm just trying to get in touch with him. That's right, that's right. Well, who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u179	Thank you. I'm serious. I appreciate that dialogue. I would just like to add that the cabinet is indeed very much engaged in it later. Of course, we are pumping or drowning in this crisis, but I refer once again to the achievements in 2019: pension and climate. But there is more, see also recent issues outside the crisis, such as nitrogen and dealing with Urgenda. The cabinet really does have an eye for the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u180	Please continue. Yes, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u181	The Minister is now acting as if it is the merit of the cabinet that has the eye for it. But let us not forget that this whole nitrogen crisis was the result of a measure which the Council of State said was wrong. Climate policy until 2020 is largely based on a legal process initiated by Urgenda. I think we should not lose sight of that. It is not the case that the cabinet says: we have some business to do. No, this is driven by lawsuits, by civilian movements. That seems to be the main motive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u182	Mr Van Raan is right. In two of the examples I mentioned, that was also not to add a whole list of examples to the list of cases. I'll acknowledge that immediately. That goes for nitrogen and Urgenda. But that does not, of course, apply to the climate agreement of the cabinet, in which time has been spent by all the ministers involved. It does not apply to pension arrangements and to many other things that we have done for the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u183	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u184	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the fourth block, the imperfections. Let me start by saying once again that it is obvious that almost all ministries can and should do better. The Ministry of Finance certainly also finds shortcomings. Of course, the Court of Auditors is also simply critical of the 99%. That's what I said at the beginning. You can of course say that more than 90% of both expenditure and revenue has been lawfully spent and received. That's true. But we, myself and myself, are also looking at the obligations, and that is where we are sinking through 90%. It is therefore right that the Chamber should be critical of this. That'll get my attention. As I have just indicated, I will, of course, do so together with the Secretary of State in our own ministry as to the shortcomings and also state-wide. I will continue to draw attention to this in the cabinet, precisely because I want to do everything I can to ensure that we get a better report for this next year. Mr Van 't Wout said that it is not a beautiful image and asked what we are going to do about it. I think the most important thing is to find out what it's because of and where we can learn from. I think it helps to pay a great deal of attention to and to have discussions about both the imperfections and the unlawfulness. For example, see the Court of Auditors' criticism of the things that often happened at the end of the year. They were more critical of that and we have really tried to take a step there. That's better now. That is no guarantee that it will be better by the end of this year. So that remains a matter of attention and concern. But the least of the cabinet and of me personally I think this really annoying thing to be expected is that we are just going to work hard on that. Mr Snels also asked about the falling trend and concrete steps. I already referred to the Council of Ministers next Friday. It just takes attention. I can keep a story that it is because of three unlawful acts in particular, which is true, but I do not think that is the right answer. We're just on a broader mission. On the one hand, these percentages are very high compared to many other countries and the Court of Auditors is very carefully investigating them, but we have set ourselves that limit. We have set a very clear bar there. Then you have to want to stick to that, too. So that also just means an important assignment for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u185	It is striking that the Minister is keen to pay attention to it and that the Chamber can only give that attention once a year. Is there any way of ensuring in committee debates that we talk about this more often in the meantime, so that this attention can also be reduced for less time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u186	It's time to think out loud. Of course, I'm the first one to be able to talk to. That is perfectly clear. There is a certain parallel here with Understanding Quality. The wider this type of topic is on the agenda of Members of Parliament, the more attention it gets and the more it is dealt with. That, of course, is simply the reality of politics. I'm going to make that comparison with Insight in Quality one more time. At a time when other committees would be asked much more often about the effectiveness of plans, that of course means something in the machinery, in the engine room of ministries. That's gonna apply here, too. This is more of a matter for the Chamber, but at least I think it is my responsibility to ensure that I have that dialogue, one-on-one but also within the Cabinet as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u187	The Court of Auditors produces a report once a year, while, for example, these state aid tests come back every year. But we never discuss them in the Finance Committee. Perhaps then it is important to ensure that we also discuss some of these issues in greater depth in the interim. But then the Minister himself will have to have more insight into these injustices in the meantime, so that he can report on them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u188	Of course, we are encountering something complicated in the methodology, I am just saying quite honestly. Of course, some of the imperfections and some of the injustices you may have the dark brown suspicion that they may repeat themselves. That was one of the reasons why we talked about the Tax Administration and its shortcomings at the Ministry of Finance in the Ministry of Finance at least every two months. We have, of course, talked a lot more about the Tax Administration in general, but also about what we are doing with these shortcomings and how we are dealing with them. So yeah, on the one hand, you can. On the other hand, you get the judgment of course only once a year. Take some of this year's injustices. It's hard for me to estimate what they'll be for next year. I do think it's true, of course, not only in the survey with me, but more widely in the survey, that the plant will grow when it gets attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u189	Then this is the pre-announcement of a question about the first few months of the forthcoming committee debate on budgeting and justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u190	In my view, Mr Sneller had just asked that question in a slightly different way. But, sure. Perhaps one last addition: I will also take this with me in one-to-one conversations with colleagues in the cabinet. By the way, let's talk about how we're trying to do that. One of the reasons why the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations is here, and last year the Minister for the Interior, is precisely because this is really felt as a responsibility within the Cabinet. They're looking at how we address this problem. It is up to Mr Knops to say more about the ICT side in a moment, but to be honest, I saw it as very positive that Minister Ollongren said last year: I am moving on myself; it is my theme and I think it is important. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins rightly also had critical questions, or critical notes to crack. I think I can refer to the answer and the efforts I will make in the coming months at least. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer, Mr Alkaya, Mr Stoffer and others have of course asked questions about KLM. Let me be absolutely clear about it to Mr Nijboer. Do I take the Court's opinion seriously? Yes, absolutely, very serious. As far as I am concerned, that should really be the aftertaste of the reaction I have given. I think Mr Nijboer's second question was: does the Minister think it has gone wrong? No, of course not. In my opinion, I have always pointed out that we have been puzzled by a search, that we have really tried to do so in all integrity and with all due care, but that everything we have done then, also in explicit dialogue with the Chamber, is an indication that you must, of course, shape it differently with each other. I think I've always been open about that. So I hope, at least, that I have been clear about this, but I would like to repeat it here. That's where protocol helps. That is precisely why I asked the Council of State for advice. That is why we have once again asked the Council of State for an opinion on the role of the Supreme Court. I'll say something extra about that in a minute. So I really want to take Mr Nijboer's feeling that I don't take it seriously. No, I take it very seriously. I also hope that the Chamber will recognise that, when information is to be provided from the Ministry, we are making real efforts to do so, both in quality and in speed. I'm sure things aren't always going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u191	The Minister responded to the Court of Auditors. The first sentence is: "The Minister is pleased with our conclusion that he has sought ways to inform the House of Representatives as best as possible about the acquisition of shares in Air France-KLM." Now we have a whole report, 50 or 60 pages, with analyses that budget law has been violated and that it is unlawful. The Court of Auditors says that this can never happen again. Well, it's not so crazy that I'm gonna talk to the Minister about that, that I think it's a really weird reaction, is it? It is not the Court's conclusion that he is pleased that the Minister... He has looked for ways, but the Court of Auditors says that it is wrong and that it should never be again. There were 12 of us there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u192	But still, in all reality, there's a lot more in that letter. One of the subjects in the discussion with the Chamber and also in the dialogue with the Court of Auditors was that the context is important. In my view, this is also something that emerged in the discussion between the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors last week. In any case, it is something that the Court of Auditors itself has pointed out to me and to the Ministry. You can't see this in isolation without the context. The second thing the Court of Auditors has said very clearly is: try to learn lessons for the future. At least that's how I understood it. To be honest, I've tried to do that from the start. Mr Nijboer is right; he was one of the first to comment on this. That is what I have done with regard to the protocol, which was not there, and with regard to the opinions we have asked for. So I think we really tried to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u193	You do not hear me say that the Minister has not tried to inform the Chamber at all. We went there; I was there myself. Only, there were a lot of things that require budget law. This is different than in a private environment, where non-disclosure agreements are signed in the field of information and I don't know what. We simply have the authority, on behalf of the Dutch people, over the money. No one here is allowed to spend money in this country unless the parliament has agreed. There are very tough conditions to this. The Minister of Finance, who is responsible for guarding this for the entire cabinet, has not complied with that. That is what the Court of Auditors concludes. My question to the Minister is: does he take that judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u194	I just said that. I have just said: of course I take that judgment very seriously. Again, there's more in the answer. I thought it was important to say this because it has also been a dialogue with the Court of Auditors that you cannot see this without the context. I take it very seriously when the Court of Auditors is critical. That's what I just said about the 99%. Of course, I think there is an assignment for the cabinet. Some of the spokesmen also referred to it: I believe that everything we have done since then and what has happened on my initiative, including in the dialogue with the Chamber on the protocol that was not there, shows that I have been looking for ways to do this better and differently. I understand that Mr Nijboer is critical of some of those parts. At the same time, I want to highlight one thing. Mr Nijboer also makes the suggestion as if I had chosen whom I would have liked. No, that's not exactly how it happened. We have simply looked at who in the Finance Committee are the spokesmen for state participation. Many groups have only one spokesperson at all, and among the groups that have several financial spokesmen, you have a choice in theory, but it was also clear who was there for the state participations. So that's how we handled it. I understand that Mr Nijboer is then critical of this. So I think we have done better in the protocol. But there too, the image is of course more nuanced than we would have chosen for ourselves. Of course, that's not how it happened. I would like Mr Nijboer to acknowledge or recognise this, perhaps I should say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u195	I'm very specific about that. Moreover, any political group may have otherwise invested the spokespersonship on state participations. For example, it may also be air transport spokesmen who do KLM. That is precisely why it is not up to the Minister to judge that. The Minister says he takes the Court's opinion very seriously. I also take the Minister's answers very seriously. I always take them seriously, but that's a lot different than taking them over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u196	I think I said it both ways. So I said: I take it very seriously and I take it over. I have already taken over; I think that is exactly what we have done over the last few months. Mr Nijboer says: yes, but the Minister has not said before that it was unlawful. No, I have always told the Chamber that it was potentially unlawful. Why the potential? Because, of course, that judgment is not mine. That is the opinion of the National Audit Service and of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is critical of this. I have to accept that criticism, because that is what the Court of Auditors is ultimately about. It is up to the Court of Auditors to judge that, so I simply have to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u197	The fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u198	The verdict will be taken over. Well, that's a very clear statement. I would not have taken that out of the Minister's answers, but it is now clear, and I agree with that. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has just done so. I do think that the Minister here is a little bit violent about history. In the letter to the Chamber he said that he followed all the recommendations of the De Wit Committee and that he went through the process nicely. In the debate I mentioned exactly the points made by the Court of Auditors. Not all of them, because I have never mentioned the First Chamber; that is what the Court of Auditors is now bringing up. And then the Minister said: with all the shortcomings Mr Nijboer points out to me, I do not agree; I do not agree with him. I have never read through the debate reports, but it was simply denied. And now the Minister says otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u199	It does not do justice to the debates we have had, nor does it do justice to what I said earlier. Mr Nijboer has just said: it cannot have been careful, because the judgment is totally unlawful. I maintain that we have done this very carefully, but the Court's conclusion can of course be a good one: with the dilemma that the Minister had, we think he should have made a different choice and then we have a number of recommendations on how things should be different in the future. The Court of Auditors has not only tried to look at it on paper, but also in the dialogue I think it has also tried to look at it with the Court of Auditors as follows. With the recognition that the context is important and that it is a complex matter, where you are dealing with conflicting jurisdictions anyway, how do you come up with something that you can do better with in the future, precisely in the knowledge that there was no protocol? There was a discussion, in particular, between my predecessor and the Commission on special aspects, but then that protocol also remained. That was not the time to ask the Chamber again: ladies and gentlemen, how should we deal with this now? Surely we must recognise this as part of the reality and historiography of that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u200	That does not relate to what the Minister has just said. If he says that he has done it carefully and that he accepts the Court's opinion that it is unlawful, then I do not think that is in keeping with each other. I would like to go so far as to say that the Minister has made an attempt to inform Parliament and to do justice to the budget law with his meetings, but he cannot say 'I have done this carefully and precisely as a finance minister who supervises my colleagues' and at the same time accept that it was unlawful and can never do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u201	We have also given this a very long and serious thought to the Ministry. By the way, only part of the house has pointed out this potential compulsive unlawfulness. That, of course, has made the news and attracted a lot of attention, but there has also been another part of the house that has said: if you follow that, then legally you come somewhere else with your fingers between the door, so we also advise against that. That has, of course, been exactly the dilemma that we have been carrying with us from the beginning. I don't think it's so strong to take something off when a High College of State is critical. I have just said this in general, and that also applies to the unlawful acts which may not lie at all with the Ministry of Finance, but for which I have a responsibility, albeit indirectly. So it just needs to be better. I don't think there's any discussion about that. I do not think there is any discussion about the fact that we have tried to improve the situation towards the future on my initiative since the moment of that transaction in dialogue with the Court. Not only because of me, but also because of the officials, a second opinion has been requested, there has been a very good attempt to weigh and very carefully looked at how to navigate this. Then it may be that the High College of State says: we do acknowledge that care and context, but we are critical of the choice that has been made. I have to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u202	In order to prevent this happening again, I think there are two things that need to be done. On the one hand, we are dealing with agreements on how information should be provided in the future. We have taken steps in that regard. At the same time, however, it is also a question of the Minister's attitude and self-reflection of what happened at the time. The Court of Auditors says that the Minister did not have the confidence in the Chamber to do this properly. How does the Minister reflect on that? Does he trust us now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u203	I also told the Court of Auditors that I simply have to accept the Court's opinion. But of course that has never been the case with us. We've just been dealing with two conflicting jurisdictions. On the one hand, I had to say that the very serious obligations I have towards the Chamber were really very serious. I can stress that again. On the other hand, however, there are also serious obligations under the so-called MAR. In addition, I am strongly advised to take this seriously, because otherwise you go on extremely smooth ice, in the Netherlands, but also in France, with a foreign supervisor. Moreover, to be honest, everyone in the Ministry agreed that if you communicate it in front, you don't have the dilemma, but you don't have the option. However, I would like to stress that, as far as I am concerned, looking back too, this has been the right choice to better protect the vital importance of the Netherlands. You can't do if-history, but I have little illusions about whether our position would be further weakened if we hadn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u204	At the same time, the Minister is dealing here with a report from the Council of State, drawn up at his request. The Council of State says that this should not have been done: there was no obstacle to properly informing the Chamber. The Court of Auditors then states: with the procedures known to the House of Representatives, it could have done the same. There was no protocol for that at all. It's a good thing there is now. We all do. But it could have been done at the time without that protocol. That is what the Court of Auditors says, and the Minister can't blame me for going into it: that didn't go well at the time, because the Minister didn't trust Parliament. That's serious, isn't it? Surely the Minister can say that he is absolving himself from that and not recognizing himself in it? He can say: I trust Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u205	No, but there's also... When that wording came forward, of course, I said: no, I do not recognize it. That's not even... It's the other way around. Parliament has confidence in members of the Cabinet until such time as that trust is cancelled. It's not up to me under state law to have faith in those who control me. We also had something completely different to do. We were dealing with two conflicting legal interests. We have tried to navigate it as best we can. We ended up with the formula in which we did inform the Chamber on the front side, did not ask permission, did inform and then went on to that transaction, which, by the way, had broad support in the House of Representatives. Then, of course, we started to look at those things in that first phase about which we are critical, at least myself: how can you do better in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u206	Look, of course, this is an important point. The Court notes this. By the way, we can all see that. We do not even need the Court of Auditors for that, but it is important that they say it. But the Court notes that you cannot make protocols and information agreements for every conceivable situation. We just have the Constitution. We have the Compliance Act. That should do it. So, of course, the attitude of the Minister and his reflection on how that went at the time are important. I have to admit that I have only been reassured for half of it so far. He insists and asks Parliament to understand the situation that was as it was at the time. Finally, a question in which I try to reach a conclusion. So the Council of State says: there was no obstacle at the time, not even with the Market Abuse Regulation, for the Minister to inform Parliament correctly. Is he taking that advice, too? Does he see afterwards that things could have been different at that time? Is he also taking over the opinion of the Council of State, just as he is taking over the Court's report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u207	In itself, of course, I would have to take that report, because I think the description is just another one there. There, too, it is stated that it is not entirely clear how to deal with this. It is the Council of State, in particular, but I would like to say that, in my mind, it is quite right to say that 'you must avoid the idea that you can grasp everything in protocols', even more so than the Court of Auditors, I believe. But of course I take very much to heart what High Colleges of State say about it. That is precisely why I have asked the Council of State for advice. That is precisely the reason why I wanted to ask the Council of State at the point of the First Chamber, which surprised me in the literal sense of the word: how do we deal with that? I very much hope that I have been able to reassure Mr Alkaya, and that I have been able to say again how I look at it and how the reflection took place immediately afterwards. The only thing I can understand about this question is that it is up to the Parliament and also to Mr Alkaya to give it or not, that we have been in the dark and that we have been looking for the best possible solution at the time, that we came to this formula, and that the Court of Auditors is really critical about parts of it. That is the reality. I have to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u208	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u209	Finally, an interesting point. The Minister was legally advised on this point at the time. That has apparently raised doubts, or a tension, because the Council of State is talking about a tension between jurisdictions, where the Minister was not obliged to inform the Chamber, but there was no obstacle either. So it was a matter for the cabinet. He's been legally advised in that field of tension. Has this also had consequences for the way in which he is legally advised, in the department or by outsiders? An opinion was apparently issued at the time in which parliamentary democracy was subordinated to the market, i.e. price sensitive information and so on. Has that had any consequences for the way in which the Minister is given legal advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u210	I don't recognize that contradiction anyway. But let's talk about the previous point. That is exactly what Mr Alkaya is now saying: the Council of State has said something about the obstacles, which would not be there, and also about the obligations and to what extent they would not be there. I think that shows exactly the dilemma. The cabinet has chosen to do so, and I am the first person responsible for this matter to inform the Chamber confidentially. Much of the criticism is seen in the way that happened. But of course the Chamber has been informed about this. Then there are all kinds of comments to make. I have tried, at least by asking for the opinion, but also by re-examining the discussion on the protocol and doing a number of other things, to accommodate the Chamber, for example on the point of the Registrar, which Mr Nijboer was previously critical of. That's been a discussion before, before my term of office. I thought of that: I can honestly move into the position of the Chamber, so let's just include that in the protocol, learning from this situation. Mr. Chairman. I had one specific point to make. I said something about it in a nutshell. That's the First Chamber. That's not in the De Wit protocol. Mr Slootweg just referred to that. That has not happened in the past either. But I think the Court of Auditors has thought that the Compatibility Act does talk about the States General. Now we know that state law is a part of customary law, and that it is not everywhere where "the States-General" is read, means that the First Chamber in practice does exactly the same thing as the Second Chamber. But again, in the literal sense of the word it surprises me, because until then... So I have no judgment whatsoever, but until then that was not part of the discussion in this Chamber, but also wider. Of these, I felt that the Council of State still had to ask for advice. It seems sensible to me that I do not have a judgment on this myself, that I should accept it 100% or should not do so, but that, precisely because De Wit is not talking about it and the Court of Auditors is saying something about it, I should ask the Council of State for its opinion. I will, of course, share that opinion with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I thought I would continue to discuss Air France-KLM and Mr Van Dijck's question. It was about how I'm going to vote. For the record, I voted. At least I did not vote myself, but one of the officials voted yesterday, I believe, before three o'clock in the afternoon. Subsequently, several Members of Parliament have expressed themselves today in a certain television programme on how to vote; I had the pleasure of seeing that again. But the vote was yesterday afternoon. We voted against that bonus, of course, because I think it includes conditions when a company asks for support and therefore tax money, even if that is a loan. There are a lot of conditions. We've had an exchange of views on that before. But bonuses, or rather not having bonuses, are, as far as I am concerned, part of those conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u211	First, Mr Snels on the previous point. Then I'm going to see Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u212	I would like to ask one more question about the Court of Auditors. The debates on the passing and budget law are about the condition that the Chamber is well informed under Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act, but we also had that discussion with the Court of Auditors on Article 4.7. This is about the pending procedure, which could also be confidential. There's some difference of interpretation in how that article was written. The Court recommends that that article be amended. The Minister has indicated that he is going to study there. I ask for this because it gives the Chamber potentially more control and because not only last year in the stock transaction, but also recently in the support operation for KLM, we asked ourselves as a Chamber the question of how exactly this suspension procedure works. That wasn't clear either. I understand the Minister has to study on this, but I would appreciate it if he could include the Chamber in this, because this might be an even more important article than 2,27.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u213	I'd like to do that. I will also take Mr Sneller's question. He asked a ultimately quite technical, legal question about the Audit Service Empire. The Audit Service is critical of illegality and comes to the same conclusion on the basis of another article; how is that possible? By the way, the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice who have been very generous in this law, because it is our law, so they really have some insight into what each of those articles can agree that if there is a reproach, that would be based on the article that the Audit Service mentioned Rijk. That is a legal debate which may be a little too far-reaching for this debate, but I would like to make a commitment to Mr Snels. In the same letter, I would like to take Mr Sneller's question, because otherwise we will come to a legal level for which I am, in any case, only limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u214	About Air France-KLM and Mr Ben Smith. It is, of course, ridiculous to vote today on a bonus of 2 million for 2020 and €768.000 for 2019. Then this minister, with his 14% shares, is standing here saying a bit: yes, we voted against. But did the Minister communicate to all those shareholders who voted that there would be no capital injection and no support from the Dutch government if that bonus was voted for? Because that's against all our rules. We do not give capital aid, we do not give state aid, to companies that pay bonuses. Have the shareholders been aware of this before they voted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u215	We have, of course, very explicit... This is the third chapter in the category of bonuses, KLM and Air France-KLM that we have together in a short time. We remember the discussion about the bonus of KLM's CEO. Then, four or five days later, we had a discussion, including in the media, about another bonus, from the group's CEO. And now we have the third piece. My attitude hasn't changed. My attitude will not change there either. But the market... There is, of course, a difference between what is enforceable and the extent to which you must oppose it at KLM, especially if you give that support to KLM itself, and what is enforceable in the holding company. Because you'd have to buy 51% in that holding company. Then you're in charge. But that's not a path I'd like to go on. If you vote there and then, I believe, more than 80% of the shareholders agree to that bonus, you have to accept that makes the conversations more difficult. We have, of course, been very explicit about this. I have, of course, been very explicit about this in the press myself. Other shareholders, who are active for a large part from abroad, i.e. not only in France and the Netherlands, but also outside the Netherlands, I cannot oblige them to do so. I would like to point out one last thing, Mr President. I fully agree with the sentiments in the Chamber about the bonus, but the reality is that in the Netherlands, with Europe's strictest bonus legislation on salaries, we are really in a different world than many in other places in Europe and certainly beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u216	Air France-KLM lost 1.8 billion in the first quarter. Now there is talk of bonuses of 2 million and €768 000 respectively for a CEO. This is not for the taxpayer to explain. After the summer you come here to tell the Chamber that a few billion have to go to Air France-KLM. A capital injection. Shareholders' money. And you expect this Chamber to agree to that after paying almost 3 million in bonuses to a CEO? You'll get no further than a moral apple. You don't like it, but you don't hit the table with the fist. You should have said to the shareholders in that shareholders' meeting live: boys, if you vote for that bonus, don't expect just one dime from the Dutch government when it comes to a capital injection. You should have said that. Then I would have liked to see how those shareholders vote. That would have meant the end of Air France-KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u217	But I think I have been more than explicit, in the indoor room but also publicly, not only during this bonus discussion but also during the previous bonus discussions. I think we've been pulling on the same side of the rope over and over. At the same time, of course, it is a different situation when you are dealing with a Dutch company, a Dutch subsidiary, with Dutch staff, which knocks on the door of the Dutch cabinet. Of course, you have a different degree of influence than with a holding company where you have 14%. That possession has brought a great deal in terms of information and also in terms of influence over the past year. If-history doesn't exist, but I'm not very optimistic about what that might mean for that hub function. But that doesn't mean I'm gonna get it all exactly the way I want it to be. Suppose Mr Van Dijck would ask me: why don't you choose not to put a dime in KLM if it isn't said no to the bonus? That's possible, but KLM will be bankrupt tomorrow. Or not tomorrow, but in a few months. That does not seem to me to be the right choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u218	The minister knows what I mean, but he's just playing. He says "Air France-KLM," then "holding" and then "KLM." I'm not saying you weren't explicit. I'm just saying, you're gonna be here begging the Chamber for a capital injection. No support for those loans from KLM, because that is a completely different chapter. Capital will have to be injected into the holding company. A capital injection: dilution of shares of shares or issue of shares and you name it. Then you come to the Chamber and you say, "Can I give that holding company a few billion dollars?" And then the Chamber says, "No, Minister. Because you didn't agree to that bonus yourself, but a bonus has been given. Under the terms a bonus of almost 3 million has been given and then as a Dutch government we cannot agree to a capital injection or capital injection. State aid'. You should have communicated that in that shareholders' meeting, because now they don't know that they voted for that bonus and actually dug their own graves. That's not fair, not even towards the shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u219	I think the appreciation could do something else. I have, of course, always indicated, even in each of the previous discussions, that these discussions in the colour bath of this type of bonuses are extremely complicated. The reality is, of course, that the perseverance force there in the Netherlands is simply greater than abroad. Mr Van Dijck may find that annoying, just as annoying or even more annoying than I am, but I would also like to get my way in the area of bonuses, but look at that result. I believe that 80% or 81% of the population have still to be checked, so please keep me in good faith. This can only be done when the other major shareholders think: everything is acceptable. I can just force it to a different position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u220	I get all that. But what matters is that you're going to join the Chamber for a capital injection, tax money. Whether we want to give 4 billion to the holding company to keep the holding company alive. So we are paying this bonus as a taxpayer. Then everyone will fit, because that's impossible to explain, isn't it? You can't explain it. You will be standing here with your mouth full of teeth, because a bonus has just been given to a CEO of a holding company that you will want to keep up with tax money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u221	This is gonna be a repeat, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u222	Yeah, but it can't be explained. I hope you realise that, and I hope you communicated that in advance at that shareholders' meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u223	In my view, I can keep repeating this. We, the Minister of IenW and myself, have repeatedly stated in the contacts with the company, in the contacts with the Dutch part of the company and in the contacts with the French State that there are a large number of conditions in the Netherlands which must apply or which, if they are not met, make it extremely difficult in the situation in which we are moving. By the way, this wish list contains a number of things that are certainly as fundamental as the bonus, but the bonus is more than just a pin shot in the Netherlands. Of course, that has a great sense of feeling and is absolutely right. So that's gonna be part of that conversation. I very much agree with much of what Van Dijck says. That can't be surprising given my attitude so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u224	Good. I'd like to see how far you are, because there's been a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u225	I have one more thing to do in this category. Mr Nijboer asked about the oils in the category of inevitables. For the record, I believe that Mr Wiebes sent a letter to the Chamber today. What is important there is that without agreement on the extraction of gas that gas would not have been able to go to zero. The Court of Auditors has made critical comments on this. The formula and the path that we want to take as a cabinet, which I very much agree with Wiebes.... is the way of arbitration, whereby you will in any case settle. I think that we will discuss this arbitration, whether confidential or not, with each other. To what extent it should be confidential, I would like to leave it to the Chamber and, first of all, to Minister Wiebes. But we have just done this arbitration to bring objectification into the debate. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a little bit in the category other than. Mr Slootweg asked how realistic it is that the agreements of the government agreement on social service should still be reached. My observation is that all the efforts of the Secretary of State of the United States, who is concerned about this, are aimed at achieving those goals. As many as 15,000 young people participated in the experimental phase with 87 test gardens. This phase has been in line with expectations. At the beginning of this year, 27 of these so-called MDT projects, socialtime projects, were supported with an expected participation of 17,000 young people. What I don't know exactly is what progress is due to corona. I should check it out. Then Mr Slootweg asked about the increase in the use of childcare and a statement. It's true it's gone up harder. The cabinet has structurally invested a small 250 million in the affordability of childcare. In addition, the economic situation improved further in 2019. The impact on the use of the childcare allowance is likely to be stronger than expected. That's the explanation. Mr Van Otterloo asked about the increase in AOW expenditure. For the record, that increase, as far as you can call it an increase, was provided for in the draft budget. This concerns the adjustment of wages and prices. At the time of the budget, this wage and price development had not yet been incorporated into the post of the AOW expenditure itself, but had already been made clear separately. That's the explanation. Then Mr Stoffer asked me: surely prosperity cannot be at the expense of the welfare of the vulnerable in developing countries. It is right that he should draw attention to this. I think that's a discussion going on with the Chamber anyway. I would not like to anticipate that, because there is much more to be said about that. Moreover, I would like to add that it remains our joint task to draw attention to the vulnerable within the country, because the tragedy is that the account of many previous crises has been paid in the first place by the bottom of the middle class and the middle class. I have one question left, and that is a question from Mr Bruins. Actually, he belongs in the last block, but with his permission, I'm doing it now. He asked what the cabinet was doing to ensure that all subsidies were subject to the State aid test. We are absolutely committed to testing all subsidies there. That is also being continued. The practice of reviewing new subsidies before publication on State aid is also maintained. VWS has tried to improve these tests significantly in recent years. VWS has been working to improve the state aid test; so I have to say. Thus, if it is legally possible and feasible, existing arrangements will also be adapted before they expire. Now there is more to be said about that, but I think that is the main line and perhaps something from the anchor that Mr Bruins is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u226	Good. I shall go first to Mr Stoffer, then to Mr Alkaya and then to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u227	I thank the Minister. I like that he has an eye for weak people both outside the Netherlands and within the Netherlands. We both need to keep an eye on them. In fact, my question was rather limited, and that is whether the Minister was willing to continue to encourage and pursue existing voluntary initiatives, such as those imvo contracts, international corporate social responsibility. That's how simple my question was. He went into it nice and wider. Only, I did not get an answer to my specific question. I'd like to get that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u228	So the answer can be very simple, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u229	Then I'm really gonna call the helpline and ask Mrs Kaag's advice, because she knows a lot more about its effectiveness than I do. I think it is an important subject a priori, but the Netherlands also does a lot in the area of BuHa-OS. How this should relate to the current situation is something that the Chamber should discuss with each other. To be honest, I think this is too big. Also, this specific question shows that it is too deep to let me rattle right now. So, with Mr Stoffer's approval, I would really like to let that go through the BuHa-OS colleague. I would be happy to pass on that question if that helps him, but I do not think that I should anticipate it too much now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u230	I agree with that, because I think he should be there as well. But I'd like to get an answer back, because otherwise it's gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u231	I guided the question and asked Minister Kaag to answer this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u232	A letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u233	This time we have to answer the same question. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u234	Freudian too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u235	Minister Kaag always answers me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u236	That's what I was gonna say. It wasn't meant to be the way it came out. Of course, Minister Kaag, as the cabinet always does...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u238	... also answer this question in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u239	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u240	In the direction of Mr Nijboer, the Minister briefly referred to the money that went to the NAM. But I think my question on this matter has fallen apart. I specifically asked the Minister if he was prepared to examine whether that money could be recovered, because it was an advance and so negotiations are still under way. If such an advance is found to be unlawful, it should be possible to recover it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u241	I believe that the formula we have agreed on is precisely that of arbitration. That's what you're gonna take this piece into. It's also called legal "calculation." You're gonna have to settle this. I can say little more about this matter here and square public, but in theory: suppose that the arbitrator would be zero. If you have already paid a piece, then in every case you have to get what you have already paid back. But suppose an arbitrator in a case comes to x, then you have to settle what you've already paid for with x. That's the logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u242	Mr Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u243	That is the logic when it comes to multinationals. If I get an amount wrongly from the IRS, I'll just have to pay it back by the end of the year. That goes for so many people. So you see now that large companies get the benefit of the doubt and that it is said: we wait a while. While the Court of Auditors has said that it is unjustified. So I'm really gonna call on the Cabinet to look for ways to just get that $90 million back. If then we have to pay again: we'll see about that. But now it's just been illegally transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u244	No, that's really... And for the record: settlement is a concept that is much broader in law and that the Tax Administration uses. 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna make it over one minute and you're gonna ask for it back at another. Settlement is therefore an accepted form of settlement of transactions. Therefore, at the time when it would appear that the person who is dealing with it would in this case have reached the conclusion that you did not have to pay, that would have been an undue payment. It can then be offset by zero and then you de facto get the amount back. But if x comes out, you have to deal with x.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u245	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer on the state aid tests in the VWS grants. I think we're coming a long way. In fact, in the last year, all new subsidies have been subject to a state aid test. The Court of Auditors says that a third of the VWS grants question legality. That is why I would very much like us to be able to conclude next year on Accountability Day that the existing VWS grants have also had a state aid test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u246	Here's what I'm gonna do. Let me make sure that we retake this administrative and politically with VWS, by the way, with the recognition of all the good work that has been done recently at VWS and with the recognition of what is being done there at the moment. That is, I think, even more so than at the Ministry of Finance. With these two recognitions, let's do everything we can to see how we can polish this away next year and talk to the Chamber about it where necessary. Would it be possible for me to make that commitment to Mr Bruin? I'll pick that up myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u247	Perhaps it will then be possible, for example, to let the Chamber know in the summer or just after the summer, so let us make this very concrete and smart.... which part of those subsidies VWS thinks it would have been subject to State aid testing next year at Accountability Day. Then we make it clear, concrete, real accountability according to 3.1.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u248	I know Mr Bruins' fondness for grief. I don't know if the U.S. Attorney General's office is already freaking out, but I'm gonna find out. That sounded like a "yes." As close as I can get to a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u249	Back to the tip of the NAM. We have also had an exchange of views on how legitimate the cabinet can act in relation to the 'connection', when the budget law of the Chamber is then also at issue. I asked for a response in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u250	Mr Van Otterloo is right. Mr Nijboer also asked about this. That mechanism is enshrined in the Compatibility Act. The executive authority is therefore allowed to bind the State of the Netherlands in financial terms by making a transaction. It is then up to the Chamber to decide whether, and if so, to what extent a member of the cabinet has to answer to this point. I think it is logical that the Compatibility Act gives that space, because that does justice to the position of the executive and it also does justice to the position of the controlling power, being the Second and the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u251	Mr. Sneller, this microphone. No, this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u252	Apparently, that's the cleanest of the two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u253	Just for a few seconds. I do not think we can go into the RSV survey in detail in the tail of the answer, but I would like to ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u254	I'd like to do that immediately. I've had the same question in my hands. So I got rid of it somewhere, but not consciously. I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u255	That's good. Then we'll do it in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u257	We'll just wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. No, no, wait a minute. It'll be cleaned first. The Secretary of State is very excited. He wants answers right away. That's how I know him. It'll take some getting used to. The mike's still on. Oh, it's ready. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to reply to the questions put to me over the next two hours after the first term of the Chamber and Mr Hoekstra's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u259	Good. Do you also have a category of varia, as Mr Hugo de Jonge always does?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u260	Varia? No, I do have another category. But all the crazy on a stick. As Mr Hoekstra said, it has been a tradition since last year that a ruler of the Interior is also here because of the I function. At first, it was the Minister of the Interior. In April, the Minister's government portfolio was handed over to me. It is important to be accountable for the F, I repeat a number of Members of Parliament, but that also applies to the I position. I would like to thank those Members who have asked questions about this. Before I get to the answers to the questions asked, I would like to say a few words about the state-wide business operation and about ICT and information security in the Empire. In business operations, it is absolutely necessary to make everything work, but it is often not visible. It often happens under the hood, but if it isn't there, you immediately notice that you have a problem. In the Annual Reporting Company Rijk I also look back at that working under the hood and the most important results that have been achieved over the past year. However, a look back at 2019 and a look forward to 2020 cannot be separated from the corona crisis. Since the spring holidays 2020, many people in the Netherlands, and therefore also in the government, have been working on vital processes every day. Despite the crisis and the limitations that it creates, they are trying to do their work as well as possible in a completely different way than they have done before. This can only be done because of the fact that in 2019 we made the choice to make a number of investments. I would like to say this in response to Mr Nijboer, who said: you must also do the right things in time; you must invest in the public sector. We then made the choice to make a number of investments, for example with SSC-ICT. These investments enabled us to switch immediately, without any difficulty, when the crisis arose. 100,000 people could work at home from one day to the next without anyone noticing. Now you could add other conclusions to that last sentence, but that's not what I mean. I just want to say that those people could do the same things from home. This does not, of course, apply to a number of people who are needed in vital processes and who need to be physically present because of secure environments or otherwise, for example because of their work in cleaning. But a lot of people work in a totally different way. I think that this adaptability of the government in such a bizarre time is what it is; that has just been said a number of times, however, indicates that we are doing a lot of good on those basic things, even under that hood. The Court of Auditors, of course, looks where it can do better. I do not want to trivialize that, but I would also like to emphasise that a lot of things are going well. This means looking ahead and investing in the good projects in time to be able to act in a situation like we have now. This may also have an impact on the annual report for next year and the following year. Why? The way we're going to work now could be something of a structural nature. That does not have to be in the exact way that is happening now, but a number of experiences that we are forced to experience in this very great social experiment, as I have already mentioned, can lead to a structural change in standards for office housing or the way people work and work at home in the office. We are already looking at that, so you can expect a reflection on that in the next annual report. Over the past year, we have actually contributed to a sustainable climate. I heard something in which it was said that it was all lost years. I certainly wouldn't say that. We have indeed taken steps, including with the National Offices Roadmap, to see how we can make these state offices more sustainable. Our purchase has also been adjusted. I say quite honestly that this is not all at the pace we would like to see. Think, for example, of zero-emission vehicles, which are still considerably behind schedule. But with regard to procurement, we have taken a number of other major steps. I also believe that we should continue this ambition in the years to come. Mr Sneller said a few things about implementation. With regard to the importance of implementation, I would like to remind him that last year's debates have made it clear that policy is very good, but that it is ultimately about implementation. How do we deal with civilians? How do we deliver the services? What kind of quality level does that take place at? Are we also able to act and correct if mistakes are made? This has led us to see, within the cabinet, a number of administrators in particular and, of course, with official support, how we can put the implementation more into the spotlight. We must also do this from the point of view of the role of the state's employer, seeing that the human resources issue is becoming more acute. We're dealing with an ageing population. The government must make more effort to get people into certain positions. Let us be honest: the discussions that have taken place in this Chamber, but also outside it, about, for example, the Tax Administration or other implementing organisations, do not always create a better image of these organisations. I think this is wrong. But this does mean that we have to make more effort to connect good people to us in relation to these kinds of functions, as well as functions in IT, for example. We will have to operate smarter, cooperate better with the market and put a permanent emphasis on it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a bridge to information security and ICT. Last year we saw with the Citrix incidents how important it is to keep information security in order. Of course, we have also seen that the Court of Auditors' reports in recent years have not immediately led to an improvement in the number of deficiencies, but the experience of the past period has shown that the system we had, with a CIO Empire and an NCSC, has enabled us to act quickly and to take the right measures quickly. This, too, is another sign of the resilience that we all have to work on. This means step by step renewing the IT. This means replacing existing legacy systems where this can be done, compared to the investment rhythms that often belong to them and which do not immediately make it financially attractive to convert, but rather ensure that the government operates more as one government. This means that there will be greater coordination between departments in the future. I should also like to comment on a number of specific questions that have been raised. Mr. Chairman. That was pretty short, wasn't it? Especially compared to my colleague. Now I'm going to answer some questions that have been specifically asked about IT topics. Mr Slootweg wondered whether management and purchase of IT could become more concentrated, as well as the way in which it is decided within the government. Of course, individual trade ministers, on the basis of their own ministerial responsibility, still have responsibility for digitalisation in their own area. My role is mainly to set standards and standards within the government, including with the CIO Empire and together with the CIOs of the departments, in order to slowly but surely shape the standardisation. This is done with respect for ministerial responsibility, but not in the same way that we have done in the past. You can't, because you're going to have to grow into more coherence in how you deal with digitalisation. This is reflected in the cooperation with the various departments of the trade, for example with the ministries of EZK and JenV, but also with VWS in the area of health care. We need each other as much as we can. The implementation organisations covered by BZK will have to cooperate with those departments that want to provide services on the demand side and need a well-functioning IT. An important condition for this to work, including from a steering point of view, is that the decision CIO system of the National Agency, which is being introduced this year, will actually achieve these positive effects. I announced this last year in the letter of 20 December. In doing so, I want the government to pool more knowledge and experience from the "one government" concept, and to streamline services, procurement and all that kind of business. This is happening at the moment, even when it comes to category management in purchasing. We are trying to avoid the fragmentation that has been there for a long time, with each department really using its full responsibility to procure these kinds of things. We need to get that right. SSC-ICT is an example of this. That's a shared service organization that works for several departments. Standardisation and standardisation mean that we have fewer different packages and that we are going to work according to the same principles. I want to fill that out step by step. I also feel supported by the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, because it is precisely on this point that we should go a little bit more towards one-size-fits-all, rather than everyone should have their own customization. It's just less vulnerable. You'll be less dependent. This requires adaptability on the part of the departments, which, of course, had their own specifications for years. But if we want to achieve a higher level of service with the people we have now in the government and the issues that come to us, then we will have to do it differently than we have done. Mr Kuzu literally asked how the government is finally going to get the ICT out of business. That is a very melancholic picture of reality. A number of imperfections were resolved in 2019. A number of them have indeed been added, also because more bodies have been investigated. That is also what the Court of Auditors is saying, and quite rightly so. When you say "I'm the new f," you should also look more strongly at that component. Then it is not illogical that there should be more deficiencies. It is up to us to do this primarily with my responsibility, together with the colleagues in the cabinet, to ensure that we consistently place the finger where the problems are and improve them. I would like to mention a number of examples where you can see that these improvements are going to take place. There will be a new feature of Chief Information Security Officer on the security side. That is a new role that does justice to the threats that are coming to us. The position of the CIO Empire is further strengthened in order to be able to properly implement that coordinating role. With the Citrix problems we had at the time, it also became clear that there is a need for such a role. We are going to strengthen the planned maintenance of the ICT systems. That's what the CIO Empire does with the departmental CIOs. There will be a quality framework for departmental IV plans, and there will be a hand delivery controlled renewal of the ICT landscape. It involves all the lessons learned from BIT and implementation organisations, but also from parliamentary committees of inquiry such as the Elias Commission. After all, we cannot stress enough that every new project is going ahead, and every time new projects are being launched, these lessons need to be followed again, not to avoid making mistakes, because that can always be done, but to avoid making the same mistakes as before. That's what we have to try to prevent. We can never rule out mistakes, and that's what we learn from. Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Sneller specifically zoomed in on foreign affairs information security. This is a focus of recent years. Given the nature of the traffic at Foreign Affairs, it is also extremely vulnerable and has a high risk profile. I agree with both gentlemen that this is certainly not a matter of sitting back and hoping that it will work itself out. I don't believe in that. I hope so, but that is not enough to solve this problem. The department is, of course, first and foremost accountable and responsible for what is happening. Mr Sneller asked if I could promise that this will be the last time that there will be an imperfection. A commitment is a little much, because I cannot give that guarantee, but of course all the commitment is aimed at, given the nature of the imperfection, to make it a thing of the past next year. I will also guard that from my coordinating role. I have made the appointment with the State Department specifically with regard to the State Department that I will be reported on a monthly basis. Those reports should also lead to the actual resolution of this imperfection. I know that Mr Blok has the same interest in not compromising the security of his own systems. And I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mr Sneller says: it's nice to be informed about new projects, I'm just saying homely, but there are also a lot of projects that are running and are being maintained, and that's often about a much larger size than just those new projects. That's right. He's asking how we're gonna improve the information on this. In 2019 I started a broader development for both the Rijks ICT dashboard and the improvement in the information provision to the Chamber, which of course belongs to that. Indeed, the current ICT dashboard only provides information on new projects of more than €5 million. That dashboard is constantly being improved and expanded. There'll be more to that. I think you've been able to see that for yourself. When it comes to the underexposed ICT activities such as management and maintenance, I can promise you that I will include them in the 2021 dashboard. A quality framework of multi-annual IV plans is being drawn up for this purpose this year, which includes the plans of ministries, including maintenance, for the longer term. We need a little time to put that all away in a planned manner. Then that will also be presented in that dashboard after the Information Statute has been amended. So I can promise you that. Then Mr Sneller had another question about these shortcomings. Is it not an idea to use ethical hackers in places that are weak to carry out pen tests, penetration tests? At the moment such tests are already carried out in a general sense, including by ethical hackers. We're already working with that. It is both internal ICT service providers and contracted parties that do so. In line with the recommendation of the Court of Auditors, I am exploring the possibility of using national ethical hackers as well. Are we going to do that exactly in those places? It's not illogical, you might say, to do it in the places you know they're vulnerable. I'm going to work that out, so thank you for that suggestion on that point. In my view, I have also answered Mr Stoffer's question, which actually finds that there is still a long way to go. Yeah, I agree with him. We're a long way from here. The size of IT and its rapid growth, and actually a bit of volatility in developments, means that we always have to stay very focused on this and that there is always a certain risk profile attached to it. In my opinion, the only way to get this under control is to combine the knowledge and experience that exist. We do this through the CIO Empire and also through the new function of Chief Information Security Officer in combination with those pen tests, to continuously challenge, test, challenge your own system, to solve any weaknesses. Remember, of course, we are constantly working to improve our services when it comes to controlling data and questions we have about MyGovernment. I just mentioned VWS, but I can also mention other policy areas. So we are not talking about a static situation. We are in a situation that is constantly moving and evolving, adding new elements to the existing systems. That also means that one year you can have more imperfections than the year before when you might have done the good things, because you add new lottery tickets to the branch. But this is an important point and I am also very pleased with the committee of the House of Representatives which is considering the future of digitalisation. I was allowed to speak with that committee, at least with the chairman, because of the corona regime. I simply note that there is also a great deal of attention from the Chamber to accountability and control, particularly at this point, and a somewhat sharper look towards the cabinet. I can only welcome that. That is what I wanted to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u261	Thursday, that committee will present its report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u262	Yes. Have you seen a version yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u263	No, not yet!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u264	Okay, no, me neither. Then a number of questions in the category other than. The first question, about the decentralisation payments, is from Mr Van 't Wout. This subject is, of course, at the interface between the Minister of State and the Secretary of State for Finance. It is an issue on which much has been done and on which the Court of Auditors has reported in detail. It is fair to say that between that decentralisation benefit and that specific benefit there is a reality that is more complex, and that sometimes you are forced to opt for one scheme, for example the decentralisation benefit, where you actually assume that that policy freedom is fully respected in municipalities, while the nature of the benefit at that time sometimes requires you to steer a little, including from the Empire. And from this Chamber, by the way, with requests in motions for resolutions to fellow executives to do or leave something to be done in relation to co-governments. That has caused us to see that there is some sort of loophole in the legislation. The instruments we have are actually insufficient, and that also means that we are currently working on an intermediate form between a decentralisation benefit and a specific benefit, a so-called benefit common goal. For example, this could be a solution to the problems we have with the regional envelope. In addition, you actually want to have a hybrid form, but it has to have a good legal basis. Of course, we do not want us to be reminded of this when the Court of Auditors reports again. Mr Stoffer asked about investments in housing. He said GDP is growing by 1.8% a year, but the share of housing investment is falling compared to GDP growth. If we look at the absolute realization of new homes in recent years, the goal has been met. At the same time, we see that this is not enough to cover the current deficits. In addition, as a result of the nitrogen problem and now Corona, we have had two additional challenges. With regard to nitrogen, Mr Schouten, together with other colleagues in the cabinet, is busy coming up with a package that will allow as much work to be done as possible. Nitrogen-free building is what we call it. That, of course, requires additional investment. As far as corona is concerned, we have made agreements with the sector. Thus, we now have the protocol "Work safely together" in the construction and engineering sectors. Through municipalities, but also from the Empire and the National Real Estate Company, we try to make agreements to bring forward projects to at least use this crisis not as an excuse to do less, but as a challenge to do more. I believe that as a government we should set an example. This applies to both the government and the fellow governments. That starts with us, of course. We have good conversations with municipalities and provinces. They are also the principal or responsible for municipal operations. They can play an important role not only by meeting housing needs, but also by doing so in such a way that we can properly fulfil the objectives of the Climate Agreement. Mr Bruins and Mr Stoffer asked about the Natural Gas Free Neighbourhood Programme. The Court of Auditors has been critical of this. In fact, it has said that everything is already earmarked in the financial sense and that relatively few natural gas-free dwellings have been produced. This also has to do with the fact that the program runs until 2028 and that in the start-up phase of course you always have to work out the plans first, organize the test gardens and turn off the challenges. So in that first phase you have relatively little result. At some point that should speed up considerably. The first round started in 2018 with 27 test gardens, which aim to make 18,000 homes natural gas free. The second request was completed on 1 May last. This will be a question in which the bar is a bit higher than the first one. What you learned in the first tranche you want to convert into the second tranche to achieve even more effect. This means that a total of 30,000 homes could thus be built up to 18,000 plus 12,000 homes. So we're on schedule to get to that 50,000 by 2028. This also means that we need to monitor this carefully and that your Chamber will be explicitly informed. This fall, we're gonna do it again. The progress report will then be sent to the Chamber at the beginning of next year. I hope that we can really show that the idea that things are not going so fast in practice is being lied to in a positive way. One point that goes along with this is that it is the corporations that play an important role in this. It's not just for people who can afford it. I believe Mr Bruins called them "the green empires." That's another category. I'd say it's just for everyone. It is very important that we move this widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u265	Thank you for these reassuring words. Indeed, involving the housing corporations seems crucial to me to get the transition to the ordinary people. I also think that we should be the first to give them a lower energy bill. This could help. The Secretary of State says we're still on schedule to get that 50 grand by 2028. Could I ask for a new planning to be included in the report that will be drawn up next autumn? The Court of Auditors is now saying that nothing really happened. That is a very bad observation. I hear the Secretary of State say we're just gonna make it. Then I would also like to see a new planning up to 50 000, making up for this delay in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u266	It could be both true, by the way. You can say that little has happened when you measure what happened, while at the same time you can make your planning. But this seems to me to be a perfectly legitimate question. I understand that. The first progress report was in January 2020. The next one is scheduled a year later. I think it is appropriate to include Mr Bruins' request to update this, also in the light of the Court's report. That's what we're gonna do. Finally, on this subject, Mr Slootweg specifically asked what mechanism could be developed to ensure that investments in CO reduction are actually spent on the most effective programmes, for example on housing isolation. The whole Natural Gas Free Weeks Programme can only be successful if you start at the source, at the base: insulation. I believe that Mr Van der Lee, who is not present at the moment, always repeats this in debates. I'll repeat it to him: that's what it starts with. Isolation is the most important thing that has to be done. Eventually, you can have a return on the investments you make. Very focused: within the framework of the task that lies ahead, you will of course first take the projects you can quickly work with, also to show people that there is an advantage to it, otherwise it will be very difficult to realize this. That has to do with the support Mr Bruins spoke of. Eventually, you'll go to the more difficult places. Corporations simply play a very important role in this. Sometimes it's a little harder when you're dealing with shredded property, like possession of corporations between private property. Then you want to get as many people as possible. This can only be done with good business cases and there is a lot of work to be done. It is important that the mechanism works in such a way that you start with isolation. Otherwise, there's really no point. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u267	Thank you very much for that. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I suppose you guys need it. I shall first give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u268	Mr. Chairman. There's only one question left. That is the question for the Minister whether we will receive a new Spring note. The June estimate of the CPB will be published on 16 June. Maybe it can be taken in there. In the meantime, so much has changed with the new support package that the Spring Note is actually a bit outdated and it is a shame to debate something that is no longer topical. Mr President, then Air France-KLM. I still think it's really crazy that people are talking about a capital injection, while today a big bonus has been given to the CEO. It also speaks volumes for the relationships that, if the Netherlands, as one of the major shareholders, opposes a bonus, they simply do not care about it and that they simply press it through in the general meeting of shareholders. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CEO of Air France-KLM received a bonus from the Ava;]] [[Calls on the Government not to agree to any capital injection into the holding company Air France-KLM as long as there are bonuses at the Air France-KLM summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u269	Mr. Chairman. To my surprise, an earlier motion of mine was just rejected by 73 to 77 votes. He asks to investigate whether KLM can't continue without Air France. In order to give the parties who voted against, such as GroenLinks, PvdA and DENK, a second chance, especially now that the bonus debate is taking place, I would like to table that motion again. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether KLM can be separated from Air France, so that it can continue independently in the long term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u270	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u271	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van 't Wout on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the answers. Two things still, no motions. Firstly, with regard to ICT, in particular information security, I asked the Secretary of State in the first term how he will ensure that the Chamber remains attached to it. Maybe I missed it for a while, but that's not quite sharp for me. Here I have a bit of the groundhogidee of the GroenLinks colleague, namely that we have the same debate every year on Accountability Day. Maybe something about this new committee is a good way of doing that. Mr President, more generally. There has been a lot of discussion about all goals and about what role the Broad Prosperity Monitor should play in the coming year, and so on. In that sense, it has been a debate of responsibility as I have experienced over the last few years. I love it all, but let us not forget that outside this room the country is on fire and that the cabinet is on sight, but must keep an eye on the ball. You can't do that on ten balls at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u273	Thank you, Mr. Van 't Wout. Mr Snels has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We must resist the tendency to fool ourselves. For example, I spoke in the first term in response to the comments made by Simon Kuznets. His thesis is that every number is a simplification of reality, but precisely that is why we have to set goals, because accountability is only then possible and meaningful. Perhaps that is also an answer to Mr Van 't Wout of the VVD. Of course it is important to act when necessary, but why, for what? You not only need to clarify the view, but also make it clear what you really want to achieve: where do we sail to? Mr. Chairman. I liked this debate. It's a good thing we fed this. In my view, this was indeed a debate in which we tried to be as fooled as possible, precisely because we talked a lot about goals. I am also pleased that, with six questions, I received three promises from the Minister. In any case, that is effective and effective, I would say. The first is that, after the summer, the strategy for evaluating the aid packages will be presented. I think that's really important. It is indeed acting now, the country is on fire, as the VVD says, but watching how we are going to evaluate. I know that there are talented officials in the Quality Department who would like to think about this and give us a strategy for it. The second commitment was a kind of partial commitment about the discussion in the cabinet about corona in society. Actually, I found the Secretary of State's explanation interesting. He indicated that we now have to work remotely, including the state service. That raises all kinds of questions about how to do that, including how to work at home. That is precisely one of those policy areas on which the Secretary of State said: you will read more about it at the following answer. Why not already in the budget? Why do we not already have specific objectives? So what does the cabinet want to achieve in this area? How many people have to work at home? What does that mean for the offices? That is the system that we are looking for in the end, so that as a Chamber one year later you can look back and see if those goals have been achieved. That's the system. My question was, and the Minister has promised to do so, to look with all those colleagues at the corona challenges we have in society, such as care and education, and to see what corona in their policy area means to society and how it should be done. Finally, Mr President. The commitment on 4.7 Compatibility Act is really important. The Minister is the guardian of the Compatibility Act, but these articles are also about the position of the Chamber. That is precisely why I think it is important that we should be included. That is why I am pleased that the Minister is going to inform us more about this. I thank the two rulers for their answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u275	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers and the single commitment. It is, I think, a good thing that we have this debate to see what we can learn from the past; often you can learn from the past that has been recently. But on the other hand it is also very strange to talk about beautiful figures here, while you know that there are a lot of people outside who are very worried about how they get through the coming period. In this respect, it is also very difficult for me to imagine how this debate is going next year, when you are working on very different figures. That makes it important for me to think about how we are really going to look at how we can effectively achieve a number of goals and how we can effectively deploy the euros in the coming period. That is why I welcome the commitment to consider, perhaps through the ADR, how a number of models work out. Do they promise a lot? Is that what we're achieving? We also need to look at what we can learn from the project Understanding Quality, which focuses on new policies. How could we also apply the things that we learn from it to existing policies? How can we use that more effectively? I also welcome the Minister's longer-term commitment. I think the word "resistance" might be even better than the word "buffer." How can we see that not only the government, which had something at this time, but also citizens and businesses can be put much better in some kind of resistance, so that people are better prepared at bad times, which always come? I think it would be wise for us to have had this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u277	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Mr Alkaya has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u278	We are talking today about last year's accountability, which has shown that the commitments made by the cabinet went through the tolerance threshold, mainly due to commitments to business: community money that has been transferred or promised to business. That was the main point for me today. I said I wanted to be reassured on that point. As I just said, I'm only half reassured. Perhaps it has become 51% by now, but that means that we are going to keep a close eye on it in the future. Now that such large sums are being transferred to companies in the corona crisis, it must be done in a way that we can control as a parliament. That is certainly the foundation of our democracy. So we will be watching very closely. Besides, I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is not possible to establish whether the advance of EUR 90 million transferred to the NAM is lawful;]] [[whereas negotiations are stalling because Shell and Exxon want to make the most of the negotiations;]] [[Calls on the Government to cease negotiations with Shell and Exxon until the Chamber is fully informed in public;]] [[calls on the government to recover the EUR 90 million and to take the fight to court if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u279	Then we also talked about the problematic debts of many households in the Netherlands. Contrary to the public debt, these are unfortunately among the highest in Europe. We need to do something about that, too. I think we should start with this in order to tackle inequality in the Netherlands. I have a motion for a resolution on this too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the increase in purchasing power for all income groups was disappointing last year and that the lowest income group had least progressed;]] [[noting that the debts of Dutch households are among the highest in Europe;]] [[whereas many people with modest incomes are now struggling in the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the government to increase the purchasing power of households in the lowest income group, i.e. up to 115% of the statutory minimum wage, at least as much this year as the other income groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u280	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer. I wanted to list all the commitments, but that has become far too much. So I'm not gonna do that. But I do think I agree with Mr Van 't Wout that it is good to get back to it more often. So I would also like to hear the answer from the Secretary of State on that point. During a previous debate, I said that as a Chamber, we should also have a mirror when it comes to implementation. We want it to be based on trust but not on fraud. It must be cheap, but it must also be very solid. And especially at this time, when this "unexecutable" often sounds so unsatisfactory, when it comes to ensuring that it does not end up in tax havens, that these companies cannot receive it. Yeah, that's impossible. Or this customization, that's impossible. It is about the political pressure that is high in this kind of crisis management, it is about how the cabinet also ensures that we continue to see that mirror. 'Cause otherwise I'm afraid we're gonna put the seeds in here for another mess. Or do I just see ghosts here and the Cabinet has it all under control? Then I'd like to be reassured. I was also very pleased with what the Secretary of State said about his agreements with the Foreign Office. That monthly report and taking the Chamber into account seems to me to be very good. Furthermore, after a year of waiting I am very curious about the answer about this RSV survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u282	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this debate, too, I made another major point of the House's budget right. The Minister has finally accepted the opinion of the Court of Auditors. I would not like to say 'encompassed' but I would also like to say something about the defence. The Minister said it was careful and it is a dilemma. Yes, of course it is a dilemma, but in the opinion of the PvdA Group, the Minister should have just made a different assessment and could have made a different assessment. The case SNS Reaal could have just been followed one-on-one. This has not been done, partly on the advice of lawyers who have interpreted market organization law and so on. But the Court's budget law should have weighed more heavily in this case. I don't think the Minister did that right. I should also like to give this judgment clearly and clearly in the second period. I don't think it's possible anymore, and I don't think it should be like this anymore. With regard to KLM-Air France and the bonus. I do not go as far as Mr Van Dijck went in his interruption, but the Minister himself understands that if €768 000 in bonus is given to a top man of a company that receives many billions of public support, which has an impact on the support base in the Chamber. Of course, that's gonna be very difficult. So I hope that the Minister will realise this and take it into account in the negotiations that are still going on. We have also seen it with ABN, which was finally abandoned from that tonne. At that time I was still in the coalition and I forced it, in the sense of: then it just ends where that stock market listing is concerned. So those are just demands that you could put on the table. I'll give it to the minister. Finally, the NAM and the advance. I have considered putting forward a motion to the cabinet on this, but I actually think that this affects the budgetary right of the Chamber and that the Chamber should therefore come back to all those private-law agreements that may indeed be concluded. The cabinet is simply competent to enter into large private-law agreements, but this can be done in an unprecedented scale. At the Shell/Exxon deal, we saw the same thing. That was about many billions when there was no prior parliamentary control. I think that we should stop wanting this as a parliament and come back to it at another time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u284	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u285	Thank you, Mr President. At the end of this debate, I would like to congratulate the cabinet on the almost 99% of the national responsibility that was right. I very much hope that next year it will be over 99%, but I have heard that the Minister also intended to do so. Thank you for the commitment to tighter planning for the natural gas-free neighbourhoods project and tighter planning for the State aid test for existing grants. I would very much like to hear what the purpose of this is for Accountability Day next year. One question remained, and that is whether the cabinet is prepared to provide further justification and development of the conditions under the State aid to individual companies. I am asking this in the Accountability debate because I think it is important that there should also be an ex post justification for the fact that certain companies have not received individual State aid. So it is the words "reciprocity," "long-term value creation" and "Rhineland's model." Could the cabinet continue to work on this so that we can check it as a chamber as well? Remains me to end up with a quote from Churchill because everyone's quoting Churchill today. I chose this one: "Every intelligent person can make plans to win a war if he has no responsibility to carry them out." You'll just stand there as a cabinet in this situation. Deep respect for that. I wish the Minister of Finance, and with him the whole cabinet, wisdom, strength and blessing in the storm that is yet to come. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u286	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan. I am curious to know what quote Mr Van Raan is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u287	Mr President, we all have expectations of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u288	Whose quote is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u289	Churchill's brother said that. Thank you for the answers. I'm sure we'll get to talk about KLM. I would like to join with the feeling in the Chamber that the broad prosperity monitor is an important instrument. I must hurry, because I have five motions to further develop that interest and to help the Minister. 'Cause I heard him say, "What you pay attention to is gonna grow. Or: what you care about, you have to pay attention. Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the broad concept of prosperity can be a useful instrument;]] [[calls on the Government to present in the next Millions Note a reflection on developments in the area of broad prosperity, which can help to unlock policy areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important that the wide, unlocked scope of the Monitor Broad Prosperity should be maintained throughout the rest of the year;]] [[having noted that the General Court has repeatedly called for the Broad Prosperity Monitor to be part of the overall decision-making process on the use of public money;]] [[noting that it is also the wish of the Court to involve the broad sense of prosperity in the policy and budgetary cycle;]] [[noting that this is a complex but valuable search;]] [[Considering the importance of understanding, particularly in the light of the corona crisis, taking far-reaching decisions affecting broad prosperity;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether a short, concise reflection on the broad prosperity "here and now," "later" and "everywhere" can be presented (which can help to uncover policy areas),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Compliance Act contains a provision (Article 3.1) that any policy proposal communicated to the Court should be explained in terms of the policy objectives pursued, the instruments to be used, the expected effectiveness and efficiency and financial impact;]] [[Whereas policies should always increase prosperity in the broadest sense of the word;]] [[Whereas many proposals are unclear as to how they contribute to broad prosperity;]] [[calls on the Government to extend Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act to include a provision that all proposals are accompanied by an explanation of their contribution to broad prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2019 the widespread prosperity deteriorated on natural capital and environmental objectives;]] [[noting that the Empire is a banker at ING, which, according to the Fair Bank Guide, scores the worst on sustainability issues, such as climate, human rights and animal welfare;]] [[whereas money can have an impact on natural capital and the environment;]] [[calls on the government to continue to bank, invest, borrow and ensure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-9]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-10]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-11]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u290	Thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no animal welfare indicator in the Broad Prosperity Monitor;]] [[Whereas human action has an impact on animal welfare;]] [[calls on the Government to propose to the CBS to include an animal welfare indicator in the Broad Prosperity Monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u291	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u292	Thank you. You may take the motions and put them down further down. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've given up quoting something from Churchill, because I think that if Boris Johnson is the biographer of Churchill, that's a contra-indication for using Churchill as a counselor at this time. I have received a number of answers, but no response I did not expect, to be honest, because it went slightly above Finance in relation to the position of older people in the Monitor Brede Prosperity. If you look at the accumulation of adverse factors, you can see that there is no group where it ends up like that of the elderly. This can partly be due to a lower level of education, because this also leads to a less favourable position in our country. I have not tabled a motion on it either, because I do not think that is to do with a motion. The question was also how the cabinet handles the lessons from the corona era. We all have the task of writing an election programme. We're working on that right now. We will, I hope, get the first contours of what the cabinet intends to do with the Millions Note. We must take serious account of the fact that, if we do not pay attention, the burden of this great operation that we now have to undertake in order to keep the economy going and to maintain health care will then return to ordinary citizens and not to those who benefit most from continuing activity. That is a disappointing expectation, but I fear it cannot be any different in these times, looking at what it has been like in the past and also looking at what the stories are like now, at how everyone will have to stop pants after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u294	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u295	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers to my questions and also the questions of my fellow Members, because those answers were also very desirable and interesting. I would like to add that I forgot in the first time that I would also like to thank the General Court for the extensive reports they have provided us and which we have looked through with attention. I would like to touch briefly on two points. One is information security and IT management. I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State indicates that he takes this seriously, that he pays attention to it and that he also explicitly strengthens the position within the government by putting people in a good position. But I am left with the question that was also raised from the VVD. And how are we to be taken as a room on that? I would like a short answer to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. The second point I would like to raise is the responsibility of the energy transition and the criticism of the Court of Auditors regarding the Natural Gas Free Neighbourhood Programme. I have a motion for that, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the State of the National Account 2019 the General Court indicates that, in order to learn from new policies, it is important to capture expectations, take zero measurements, map results and systematically review progress;]] [[noting that the General Court indicates that energy transition measures often involve new policies;]] [[whereas last year the General Court criticised the accountability of expenditure to the SDE+ scheme and this year criticises the accountability of expenditure to the Natural Gas Free Districts Programme;]] [[Whereas proper accountability of expenditure to the energy transition is important both for the effectiveness of measures and for the support of the energy transition;]] [[calls on the government to better account for climate-related expenditure as included in the climate plan, for example by better mapping of monitoring, results and systematic monitoring of progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u296	You'll be able to deliver the motion in a moment. Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u297	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for the answers they have given in the first term. Since we are still working on quotes, I have also looked up one: a pessimist sees a problem in every possibility and an optimist sees a possibility in every problem. That's Churchill's, too, Chairman. Since we are optimists, we also see that 2.5 billion has been spent illegally over the past year. That is a serious observation by the Court of Auditors. And since we are also dealing with corona measures in which real billions are being invested, it is important that we do not end up in an even worse situation next year than we are now. That is what this optimistic motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court warns that rules on the accountability of public expenditure and policies are intended not only for the easy moments, but also for crisis time and crisis measures;]] [[noting that the government has rightly spent many billions on aid measures against the effects of the corona crisis;]] [[considers that effective and legitimate use of taxpayers' money remains important at all times, so that aid money reaches the people who need it;]] [[calls on the Government to uphold the Court's opinion by paying full attention to the principles of efficiency and legality in the corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u299	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u300	I'm going to try, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make efforts to reduce the backlog in the widespread prosperity of older people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to provide domestic aid under the WMO for those who need it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to take action to reduce average household debt and reduce the lead time of debt relief pathways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-16]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-17]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u301	And the last one is special for you, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to put an end to the gap between women and healthy life expectancy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35470-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u302	I also wanted to say thank you to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u303	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Do you need a short suspension? Is five minutes enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u304	Yeah, that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u305	Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u306	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance, who is very quick and short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u307	Mr. Chairman. I will say a few words about what Mr Knops has just done to me, but be patient. I'm gonna have to take a little more time for that. I would like to say that, of course, Mr Sneller is quite right. I'll start with RSV, that shipbuilding company. Many of the younger viewers will not have that in mind at all. That has been waiting for a year, so that deserves a comprehensive answer now. The President is not even prepared to do so, so I'll just do it briefly. What was it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u308	It's a little restless, but now I understand. For the first time after the corona period, you're taking part in debates. All the motions are there. Maybe I should have told you. Then you'll know. We will do that first, otherwise no one will listen to the Minister and he has such sensible things to say. Or at least...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u309	Mr President, the irony in your undertone does not escape me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u310	I'm serious. Mr Krol and then the Minister can move on. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u311	Mr President, the RSV. I am sorry to Mr Sneller, for he has waited a year for it to happen, while that company was saved by the State in the 1960s and in 1983 I do not know whether Mr Sneller had gone bankrupt when he was born. He was 1 then, I can tell by his hand gesture, assuming that that wasn't a middle finger in my direction. Let's get the short version, though. RSV was a merger of three shipbuilding companies which had been in the government's infusion for a long time and which, I remember, were de facto requested by the then cabinet to merge. They are then poorly monitored, and I will talk for a moment about the survey after having been helped by Cabinets, which is actively supported or forced by MPs and also by trade unions. So there are certainly blames on Cabinets, but also on wider ones. One of its conclusions has been that you have to act with restraint at the moment when you move on the path called business and that, if you do that, you have to think carefully about how. I believe that the immediate consequence of this is that the government has taken a much lower step in this direction. Of course, you often see such a type of reaction, with Fokker as the main example. That is where they said: well, not this one. I think that the lesson you have to learn from this is that in normal circumstances you should be reluctant to state aid. Whether you can then paste that completely on this exceptional time of corona is more complicated. Furthermore, I think there are lessons to be learned about how you control, what is the role of the cabinet and what is the role of the Chamber. There is much more to be said, but I think this is the main thrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u312	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u313	Mr. Chairman. You've already told me three times, so I have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u314	Keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u315	I would almost say keep it short. That's about Rhine, Scheldt and that V, which I'm always threatening to forget. Mr Van Dijck asked me if he was right, I forgot in the first term to update on the spring note. Yeah, I'd love to tell him. How deep that calculation is, whether it's sticking the latest numbers on the figures of a few weeks ago, I can't quite see, but I'll make sure that something comes from either myself or through the planning agency that gives new insights, by the way, with all the uncertainties that there are in all those intermediate calculations. I'll make him that promise. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the motions in a minute. Mr Snels once again underlined my point that he was given too many commitments by spooning them all up one by one, for which I thank him. I would like to thank Mr Slootweg for his comments. I also agreed with his summary. Thanks also to Mr Alkaya. I don't think he had any new questions at my address. Mr Sneller said in truth that he had received even more promises than Snels. I would also like to thank Mr Nijboer, who is no longer sitting in the benches for his remark, which I understand from his earlier position. Then I came to Mr Bruins, who had a reflection on reciprocity, long-term value creation and the Rhineland model, which I very much agree with. I think that these are also elements for the debate the day after tomorrow. It is fine if Wiebes does that, but I think the three of us should consider to what extent more hands and feet could or should be given to that. I would also like to thank Mr Bruins very much for his Churchill quote. I must say that I sometimes get the feeling that I shouldn't have started, because it gives me a whole new feuilleton. So I will refrain from further quotes from Churchill. I would like to point out that in some respects FDR may have been even more politically gifted, but that will be another time. Furthermore, I have to say what has been said about Churchill: "He was both a slave and a master of the English language." That is, of course, entirely true. Van Raan I also thank for his quote, but I will not comment on that. I'll be right with his motions. Van Otterloo had a number of reflections. He was also critical of which biographers you then fall after your death. Then I would like to say to him: out of all the dozens of biographers who want to dedicate a biography to him in about 60 years, after his death, he cannot entirely choose who will do all that. So I wouldn't be too critical of who's going to do all that. I thank Stoffer. Then I'm out of questions. I've just made some comments on set-off. I have said that I will take the qualifying remarks of the Secretary of State sitting next to me into account with the BZK budget. Then I'll be on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u316	A brief question from Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u317	A short question about tax deferral. In fact, the Spring Paper takes that into account as a deficit of 34 billion. Now there is a second package of aid, so another three months of tax deferral. Does that mean 34 billion again? And do you assume that you will never get that back, or is it really a delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u318	Mr President, you are talking about order, but this is a question that fits better with the debate the day after tomorrow, but I understand the burning desire here. We have already indicated to the Chamber that the figure is expected to be considerably smaller. For the record, I was thinking order size of 1.5 billion in tax revenues that are being postponed, not adjusted, but postponed. The reason is that many of the companies that feel that need have already applied for it in the first three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u319	Please continue. You got to the motions, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u320	Yes, I'd almost get the impression you're in a hurry, Mr. Chairman, but I'm going to the motions soon. The motion on pieces No. 5 and 6 by Mr Tony van Dijck are two motions on KLM. I would like to say the following to the Chamber. We are currently working on the loans. Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen and I have come a long way, but not yet finished. When we are done with this, it is up to the Chamber to decide whether it should be debated again. In any case, I can imagine that we will have another confidential conversation. I would like to ask the House, quite frankly, in general terms, to hold all the motions on this subject, even after a subsequent confidential debate, because that does not help. I don't want to dissuade them now. I don't want to embrace them either. I would, by definition, like to ask for those motions to be held, so I hope that Van Dijck and others who feel that challenge can live with that. The Alkaya/Beckerman motion in part No. 7 I have to advise against, because we are going to go into this arbitration to arrive at a fair outcome, also under the leadership of an arbitrator who is, of course, completely independent in it. The Alkaya motion in part No. 8 was about purchasing power. That's not timely right now. That conversation belongs at all in August, regardless of what we think of it, so I have to advise against it. The Van Raan motion in part No. 9 on broad prosperity as a useful tool and presenting reflections I can give judgement Chamber. That fate is not in favour of Mr Van Raan's other motions. The motion in part No. I have to advise against 10, because that is really difficult with these crisis measures. The motion in part No. 11 on the Compliance Act, I must advise against it for a number of reasons. 3.1 The aim is precisely to provide a sound basis for policy proposals, particularly in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. Where these objectives are aimed at the long term, there are already sufficient opportunities to inform the Chamber. A generic obligation to always in all cases and so on goes too far. That's gonna pass his target, so I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The Van Raan motion in part No. I must advise against 12, which goes against European procurement. The Van Raan motion in part No. 13 is to the Central Planning Bureau... or to the CBS, I must say. However, it is noted in my direction that this is simply not possible, so I must also advise against this motion. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u321	Mr Van Raan has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u322	Thanks for the judgments. I do have a question at the motion in part No. 10. It concerns the request for measures. The Minister says: I must advise against this, because it is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u323	That is what I said in the context of the crisis measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u324	In the crisis measures. I think it's kind of weird... weird... now I have to put it right...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u325	Supporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u326	... yeah, weird justification, thank you very much, Chairman..... that the motion is a bit tricky in the face of crisis measures. It's about billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u327	"Not possible" I meant to say. Maybe I said "no trouble"; it's a little later in the evening. But for a moment, what's the motion about? For there are quite a few things in it that we can come to an end with, but then ask the government to examine whether a brief reflection on broad prosperity can be put back to the debate 'here and now', 'later' and 'everywhere'. That takes a lot of extras on top of the Monitor Brede Prosperity. I would just like to point out that, as far as crisis measures are concerned, I thought that I could count on quite broad support, looking back on a decent obligation after Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u328	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u329	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u330	Yes, Mr. Van Raan? Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u331	The Minister explains again why it is important that we do it, but he is not going to do it. That's a strange argument. Can I change something that makes the Minister say, "So I can live with it?" I'm kind of looking, because he's been saying "it's important" all night, but he doesn't want to go through with it anymore. I think that's weird. And the minister himself, too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u332	No, it's almost a Churchillian axiom that I'm being pushed into. That's not right. It's different. So I must, with all regret, refer to my previous answer and here again wipe Kuzu's quote to me. The glass is at least a fifth full for Mr Van Raan, because I have left that first motion very generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u333	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u334	I was at the motion in part no. 14 by Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins. You may say that it goes a long way towards supporting policy, but I would like to give that motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 14 by Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u335	In part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u336	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u337	I say no. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u338	Excuse me. The motion in part No. 14 was Stoffer's and Bruins'. The motion in part No. 15 belongs to Lord Kuzu. Just for the record, as a cabinet, we are doing as much as possible effective and legitimate, but the pain is here in the word 'unshortened'. If we choose the route of the motion, I must advise against it, because it deprives us of the possibility of emergency packages. There the normal full test cannot apply. So in this form, I must discourage the motion. If Mr Kuzu deletes "unshortened" and gives the interpretation of this motion that I gave earlier, then I can give her judgment Chamber. But in this form, I must dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u339	Mr. Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u340	I think the message is clear. I can live with the Minister's interpretation. Can I indicate that we will remove the word "unshortened"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u341	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u342	So we delete "unshortened" and the interpretation is precisely that of crisis, where you have less opportunities in terms of efficiency and legality. That does not relieve us of the task of looking very seriously at it. I think that is what a very large part of the debate with Kuzu, Snels and Sneller was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u343	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u345	The Kuzu motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court warns that rules on the accountability of public expenditure and policies are intended not only for the easy moments, but also for crisis time and crisis measures;]] [[noting that the government has rightly spent many billions on aid measures against the effects of the corona crisis;]] [[considers that effective and legitimate use of taxpayers' money remains important at all times, so that aid money reaches the people who need it;]] [[calls on the Government to uphold the Court's opinion by paying attention to the principles of efficiency and legality in the corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 15 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u346	Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mr Krol. I'm afraid to say it, but I'm almost under the impression that I've lost some of Krol's motions. Let me start with the motion on part number one. 16. That first part, which calls for an effort, is, of course, correct, but we do not recognise this "deficit in the widespread prosperity of the elderly." So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. The motion in part No. 17 I must also advise against. I do not want to surprise Mr Krol, but domestic aid under Wmo is already a right. So that's not a right we have to stand up for. I thank the Registry for delivering the lost motions. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 18. I'd like to split that up. Of course, the cabinet wants to continue to work on reducing the average debt. Secretary of State Van Ark is very busy and very busy. So that part of the request that ties in with policy, I can embrace. With regard to the second part, namely that we now need to shorten these lead times: I fear that the opposite will happen in the coming period. So I must discourage the motion in this form. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 19, of which the woman who consulted me, the Director-General for Budgets, said: this is not true in substance. So I cannot embrace this motion with all good intentions in this form, simply because what I see as wrong, however important I think it is that men, women and all others who are explicitly or implicitly appointed in Article 1 of the Constitution are fully entitled. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u347	Thank you. I'll see if the Secretary of State got any questions in the second term. Yes, that's the case. The Secretary of State will then be given the floor. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for their contributions in the second term. Mr Van 't Wout asked: that's all very well, but how is that going; how are we, as a Chamber, involved in an important issue such as information security? My proposal would be to do so at three points in the year: in the budget, in the summer and in the run-up to Accountability Day. There are then three moments when the Chamber can watch the status of information security. This concerns other issues, such as life cycle management and IT management. I'd like to take that with me. The moment there is more clarity about that BZ case, which I have already specifically named, we can take that into account. Mr Snels said that the Secretary of State said that we are going to look at this next year's accountability. That is certainly true, but next year's accountability is a little ahead of schedule, namely the budget for the coming year in which we are looking forward. Now we're at a stage where no one knows exactly how long this is going to take. That's related to the corona crisis. At the moment, we are already looking together with officials and universities at the positive and negative effects of the situation we are in. Where we can make directional statements for next year, they will also be included in the budget, but it may well be that we do not know exactly whether this is an intermediate phase or whether we are really entering a new phase. But with the knowledge we have then, I am prepared to take up some notions about it, because Mr Snels is right that it should not only be on Accountability Day, because then you look at what you have done with your ambitions. So what we know about that, we can take it with us. Mr Sneller came back to the implementation. I cannot stress enough that we really need to take steps in this area, but well, the Chamber itself has already recognised that, as has the Cabinet. I should like to point out that, in the context of the NL DIGI note, we are now looking, together with local authorities and implementation organisations, at how we can use the opportunities we have in terms of digitisation to improve implementation, especially at this time. Here too you can see that under pressure from the situation sometimes things that are a little more difficult in the normal policy cycles. I am therefore quite optimistic that we can take a number of steps in this regard. I also answered Mr Stoffer's question, which was also Mr Van 't Wout's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u349	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-23.u350	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would also like to thank all those who have followed this debate on the Internet and the messengers, who have thoroughly cleaned everything up.
