ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport, Section 35570-XVI, and the second supplementary supplementary budget for Corona measures, Section 35567. I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Medical Care and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I had just been negotiating a little bit about the interruptions. You should never do that, but it's going to be eight questions or four interruptions in twos per group. I see a lot of spokesmen. I don't want you guys getting mixed up about who gets more or less. I hear one of the speakers now saying that an odd number was also clumsy. Exactly, but I could've rounded it down, couldn't I? I see Mrs Ploumen standing by the interrupting microphone. She wants to say something before we start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u2	I would like to make a point of order. Yesterday we heard from Minister De Jonge that he expects that vaccination against corona can begin on 4 January. It is, of course, great news in itself that there may be vaccines that are effective and safe. January 4th is quite fast. The GGD announced in the newspaper this morning that they didn't really know about the 4th of January. This afternoon at 2 p.m. we heard that they knew about it and that no preparations had been made and that they were not ready either. The GPs said it might be very difficult. We would therefore like a letter from the Minister tomorrow on the vaccination plan for the first term of office. I would ask that all the more so since there is also a motion from the coalition parties on 28 October, in which they are already being asked to do so. It is therefore a request that has already been made from the Chamber. So I would like to receive that letter tomorrow for the resumption of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mrs. Diertens has it here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u4	Excuse me. I am making this request on behalf of the colleagues of the SP, GroenLinks and the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u5	Do you also have a point of order to do with this, Mrs Diertens? No. Then I'll look at the minister first. Can he comply with this request? I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u6	I think it would be wise to keep informing the Chamber in the progress letters. I wrote a letter about the vaccination strategy. In the last progress letter we wrote very comprehensively about the vaccination. The next progress letter comes next Tuesday. I'd love to just keep that rhythm going. This also means that we can put our people to work from time to time, between writing letters. I'd love to do that, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u7	I find the argument that the minister's people should be able to stay at work and not just write letters of office, not a pleasant argument, especially since it is the minister himself who keeps coming through press conferences with news that we cannot respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u8	So you don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u9	No, I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u10	Then I'll give the minister that he...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u11	I will have a note made, but that will be a short note, because there is not so much news to report now and again next week. It'll be a very short note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u12	The Minister is really trying to say exactly the wrong thing. What do you mean, a note? We are dealing with the biggest health crisis in any case, my memory. There may be some very good news. There's gonna be vaccines. We're all being vaccinated. There's got to be a plan for that. The minister says we're starting on January 4th. It's December 2nd and the G.D.D. doesn't know anything. It seems to me that that cannot be done with a note. I also think it is a serious request from this Chamber, which the Minister should at least take seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u13	You've made your point. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u14	One more sentence, then. When yesterday that news came from the EEA, we immediately informed the Chamber. Your room was first informed and then the outside world, exactly in the order such as...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u15	Deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u16	... it hears, as you have told me at regular intervals. And rightly so, by the way. So you have been informed at every step. Now, if there's another letter about something I've already written about, it's probably not going to be a very long letter. That's why I'm saying that. That's the point. I'm not against writing letters, but it's not gonna be that long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u18	The Minister may also simply explain the plan here in the Chamber tomorrow. The point is that as of 4 January, vaccination is likely to take place. The Chamber would like to know if we're ready. The G.D.D. says he doesn't. The GPs are worried. The nursing homes are worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u19	You've made your point. I think it has become clear what Mrs Ploumen's wish is on behalf of her colleagues. Mrs Ploumen also spoke on your behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yes, but I would also like to hear the coalition groups about this, because the request for clarification was also from them. And I'm really not okay with every tweet or press release being communicated. We also received a letter, but of course it was not about the execution. We hear from the G.D.D. and nursing homes that they don't know anything about it. I simply think that if he launches such a thing and sets a date, the Minister should also provide a plan for how that will be done. We can't wait until next week, because January 4th is in five weeks. Next week we wasted another week. If there's a plan, it can go to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u21	I believe that this point has been sufficiently clarified, and the Minister has heard this very well. Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u22	I have another point of order. We are still expecting answers to written questions about reports of hospital records on corona patients. The six weeks before the answer have expired. We would like to receive those answers by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u23	Maybe it's good to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u24	Let's find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u25	Fine. We shall now proceed to the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u26	I give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is our greatest honour to be here today for the fourteenth time from this place on behalf of our constituents to make our contribution to the healthcare budget. From what I have said, there is a great urgency. I have a clear message for the cabinet: you can no longer afford to defy our proposals with simple rejections. The urgency is too great, too great, for such arrogance. I'm not going to beat around the bush again. The government fails in all areas when it comes to employees, hospitals, nursing homes, elderly housing or the organisation of care. The government is failing. Our concern is right on the rocks. It is up to the cabinet to solve that and to stop hanging empty talk for the stage. Stop making all these empty promises. It can't go on like this. If you can't or don't want to, let us do it. We'll go through rowing and windows for our care. The past year has seen an unprecedented dramatic turn of events. From this place on, I'd like to thank everyone who worked during the corona pandemic. All carers, nurses, doctors, supporters, labs, researchers, scientists, paramedics, general practitioners and anyone I haven't mentioned, thank you very much. We're a long way from here. Even if we get corona underneath, our hospital care has suffered unprecedented damage. More than 1 million people could not be referred to a specialist, although it was necessary. That health damage is unheard of for years. There was a quarter less references to an oncologist. Some patients had to wait so long for a referral to a cardiologist that they didn't have to. So many pain patients haven't been helped since March. Corona has happened to us, but the panic never had to be this big if our hospital care hadn't been so frail in recent years. Over the past ten years, sixteen emergency services, nineteen intensive cares and five hospitals have disappeared. There was no more meat on the bones. There was no buffer left to cope with a disaster, let alone a disaster of this magnitude. Market forces showed his ugliest face. Our entire supply of protective equipment was sold to China on the eve of the first corona wave, because they were owned by private individuals. Next, VWS had to enter an international market of scarcity, deception and usury prices. Our concern had checked. Many of them got infected. Some of them died. What worries me most is that the sitting parties seem to have learned nothing from the corona crisis, no shame, no regret and, above all, no policy change. The 0% growth in 2022 for hospitals is still standing policy. Minister Van Ark wrote that in a letter to the Chamber this afternoon. And that while the ageing population is erupting in full force. It will double the number of 75-plussers over the next twenty years, and so will their care demand. By then, more than half a million Dutch suffer from dementia. Dementia makes people very dependent on care. And there's no solution. There's no cure. There will soon be an extreme shortage of hospitals, an extreme shortage of nursing homes, an extreme shortage of adapted homes and an extreme shortage of care staff. What about the government? He'll decide to abort the concern. That attitude, supported by a majority here in the Chamber, is so bad, so wrong! You are all directly responsible for our concern and want to continue on the old ground. Not everyone, but still a large majority in this Chamber supports that policy, under the false deception of fun sounding mantras, such as "the right care in the right place." But later on, you're gonna be crying at the shards of what's still our hospital care broken, gone, no more need, just like you're crying at what was once our nursing homes. And yet you continue. Yet, despite that corona painfully reveals that our hospital care was too fragmented, despite the fact that it will take at least a year for our hospitals to return to the corona level. In spite of everything, you will continue with the degradation. That's rude, blunt, bad and wrong. How is this possible? Why not regret it? Why no remorse? Why not a turnaround? By the way, I am still waiting for the substantive response that former Minister Bruins gave to the presentation in my budget contribution last year on the almost impossible task facing a medical specialist who is actually starting a clinic in the neighbourhood. I would have thought that argument in itself would be enough to throw the whole idea of "the right care in the right place" overboard. But it's not. They hang in there, over and over again. Can I still get that reaction? Mr. Chairman. My heart weeps with so much annoying stupidity, by the fact that the majority here in this house that closed the nursing homes is now crying for the almost insoluble, staggering task that lies there when it comes to our elderly housing. You should never throw away your old shoes before you have new ones, my father would say. But here the entire contents of the shoe cabinet was thrown away. "No need anymore!" And there aren't any new ones. And no, I'm not gonna make shoe jokes. It's just too bad. In addition to the tens of thousands of adapted homes needed for elderly people who are forced or not to live at home, 164 000 new nursing homes will have to be built within 20 years alone. So not "in twenty years' time," but "in twenty years' time." After that, it won't be necessary. It's about places for our sickest, bedridden primeval. I would ask my colleagues to think about that. What about the minister? He didn't do anything. Worse, he ran the waiting lists for the nursing homes from 10,000 to 20,000. 20,000 bedridden, deadly elderly people cannot now, at the moment, go to a nursing home where they do have an indication. After 16 action plans in many areas, he still has no idea of a plan for this immense task. No, now that it's not about a nice photo moment but there really needs to be delivered, there's nothing. We therefore need a minister for elderly housing, one of us, someone who is willing to go through rowing and windows for something as primary as a roof over the head of hundreds of thousands of our elders. Mr. Chairman. We must also go through rowing and windows for our employees, first for their salary. Yes, the nearly 1.5 million people who work for us in care cost a capital. But they're worth it. Care is human work. Care is: washing and dressing people, combing hair, brushing teeth, changing, giving medicine, taking care of wounds, operating, saving lives, organizing their appointments and stays and so much more. That's something to be proud of, to reward well, not something to be cheap on. We want things to be resolved once and for all. We want a decent starting salary. We want a full-time healthcare worker to be economically independent. That sort of thing. I say take care of it. And if the Minister can't or won't, let's do it. In addition to our concern for salaries, human shortages are detrimental to care. For corona, they already led someone who is almost blind and still lives at home during the summer weeks to get no more messages and therefore did not have to eat, that relatives had to take care of and nurse a dying person in the last few days, while they were not at all trained for doing medically reserved activities, that nursing home workers all too often did not have time to help a resident for a moment to eat, chat or shower, while they were in need of it, that in the last ten years sixteen emergency services and nineteen intensive care units had to close down, while we could not without being able to do so, but again showed that for corona already departments and operating rooms in hospitals had to close down and operations could not go on because of staff shortages. Minister De Jonge's firm promise was that the staff deficit would be reduced to zero by 2022. That has proved to be an extremely false promise. The deficit is estimated at 80,000 in 2022. His promises to solve the shortages in the nursing homes were also false. The deficit was reduced there, but to a shortage of about 30,000 employees. So many people are short in our nursing homes to be able to meet the minimum of the minimum when it comes to being able to deliver quality. Why don't you let that work on you? Today, at the moment, the ability to deliver quality in our nursing homes is below the minimum due to structural staff understaffing, and that remains the case. Think about what continuous overload means to all those employees. We can call them greats, we can clap for them, but if their daily reality is that they have to walk day in, day out on their toes, that they have to keep too many balls in the air continuously, that they have to see unintentionally that the residents do not get the care they deserve, then it is a shame how they are fooled with false promises. With the constant repetition of annoying mantras nothing is solved at all. Stop that stupid mantra where one in seven workers now work in health care, that should be one in four. Everyone understands that such an appeal to the labour market is completely unrealistic. Everyone understands that it is by repeating this mantra that the government is merely trying to stir up hysteria, because the government does nothing with all the good ideas that it receives year in, year out on a platter. And I'll tell you again: you can't afford that at all. You can no longer call for disaster to come to us, but then do nothing at all against it. Take, for example, our proposal for a full-time bonus. First we don't hear about it for years at all and then one cocky sentence came in a letter: it can't be legal. And then I ask the Minister: are you the legislator or not? You can no longer afford to defy these kind of good ideas. You must pick them up and execute them. And if you can't do it, let us do it. It doesn't seem hard to me to send a law out of your chair to the Chamber to settle this. And do you know what the beauty is? All employees who are drawn over by a full-time bonus are already on the payroll. And it's also in the VVD election program, I saw. So the minister's party. They'll take a good idea, but they won't do it when they're on the plush. The same applies to their overhead standard. Now that they're on the buttons, they don't do that anymore. That's how we know the VVD. How long has the VVD been there? Minister Van Ark, Minister Bruins and Minister Schippers... not once; then it was Mr. Ab Klink of the CDA. But before that, they were already there with Hoogervorst. Our overhead plan, which we have been presenting time and time again since 2006, was recently removed with one sentence by the Minister. She wrote that organizations should decide for themselves. I can't believe you're getting rid of this so easily. Our overhead plan is as follows. The overhead in long-term care increased to 16% on average, while the best performing institutions are at 5% to 7%. If they become the norm, if necessary, if they are to receive a working floor bonus, then some 50,000 overhead workers can carry out an executive task while retaining their salary. The same number goes for the hospitals. These people are already on the payroll! 100,000 extra employees in the workplace, and the cabinet isn't doing anything. One sentence says it's worth it. One sentence... Third. It can provide up to 200,000 additional employees on the work floor if we can raise the part-time factor from 0.68 to 0.8. The Minister also rejected this proposal, including with one sentence. She wrote that employees decide how many hours they make. Yes, of course it is, and I will always stand for it. But it's the minister who outlines the conditions why people aren't going to make more hours. It is the minister who maintains the financial barriers, so that a large part of the staff do not want to spend any more hours. More work doesn't pay off too often. Isn't that a VVD slogan, too, that working should pay off? And why doesn't she do anything about it now that she's in the place of the places, so I ask. Solve this, I'll tell the Minister; it's your job. These people are already on the payroll. As a fourth big piece of shit, the rules. The regulatory burden has risen to 35% of the time in long-term care, not to mention curative care. In a very large number of hospitals there are more people who have no or no contact with patients. Next to the hospital is a very large building, even larger than the hospital, in which are all administrative staff. That's so many people who never see a patient at all. Stacks of research have been done, including as an experiment. "Limited institutions," from 2010 to 2012, produced 680 notifications about rules and 26 institutions went projectally low. Then nothing was done with it. Just put it on the shelf, because: PVV. You can no longer afford such arrogance, I say to the Minister again. All the time that employees waste behind a computer and cannot spend on residents or patients is wasted time. Stop, when it comes to rules, picking just for the bühne some low-hanging fruit. Administration must be abolished, standardised or automated. In home care and in nursing homes you can work fine with one rate. Get rid of all the registrations, applications and re-indications! These proposals are also being dismissed. And I repeat, you cannot afford that. Play the hands free of all those people who are already on the payroll, but are bound in accountability. One more. And it might not be a very good example, you know, when it comes to rules. Yesterday, the Chamber voted against my motion again to ensure that people with restrictions on above-regional transport do not have to pay five times more per kilometre if they have crossed their mileage. And you can all put on a pious face when it comes to disability care, and you can pretend you're in favour of equality, but if you don't support this kind of easy-to-execute proposals, that's all fake. Why does a person with a disability have to keep an entire record of where he or she went when? That's an invasion of their privacy, isn't it? People without disabilities don't keep track of this for the government, do they? Also look in the mirror when you bring up the administrative burden again, but do nothing about this kind of annoying thing. Again, not only the rulers, but also the coalition parties and a large part of the groups here in this House can no longer afford to defy such good ideas from the opposition. And for the money, you don't have to be against it either. But a small part of the people want to make more kilometres, so if they don't have to register anymore, those costs will go against each other. All of these examples include a overhead plan, a full-time bonus, the plan to boost the part-time factor, the rigorous removal of rules, and hundreds of thousands of additional employees on the floor. People who are so badly needed. And the beauty of it is, the beauty of it is, I repeat, that they are already on the payroll. You don't have to put these idiot mantras into the world if: now one in seven works in care and that's got to be one in four. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's the point. Mr. Chairman. Of course, some employees really do not want to work more hours or full-time. I understand, but that's not the point. What matters in the end is that it is in the interests of every individual care professional that there are enough colleagues who do. It is of the utmost importance that all traffic lights are turned green in order to achieve this. That's the point. I am not saying that these plans will make it all work out, but I do know that if you do not take over these plans and keep getting rid of them with simple sentences, you will certainly fail to provide sufficient staff in time. The disaster will be unmanageable. I do not want so many employees to succumb to the ever-increasing workload, while the ageing population is falling towards us and in no way averting us, and we did nothing to solve it. Then I come to the organization of the care. We have said it so many times: the AWBZ was only lifted in order to artificially resemble the countries around us in terms of healthcare expenditure. Of course, what you should have said to the European Union, which is that we had organised it much better than all the other countries, and that if you add up all the costs of care, 10% of GDP would be a great midget in Europe. Of course, you can't compare GDP. To make a long story short: our care for the elderly needs to be regulated in one law again. Our elders come into contact for the first time on average with care when they are 82.5 years old. First the household help, because they've gone bad and gone bad. Then help and guidance are needed for organizational things, because novice dementia throws soothe into the food. Following care and nursing, and then a place in a nursing home. When one becomes bedridden, the nursing home and finally the palliative terminal care follows. These seven steps of our care for the elderly must be regulated in one law again, not in the present four in which it has been cut up, or cut up, with all the chanting of that. We also want a separate law on life-wide and life-long disability care. It must be over with the bullying that comes from the continuous accountability, from all those interests from all those different laws and all those different... Rich, provinces, municipalities and I-know-what. We can't let our hospital care get to you. We want regional hospitals and specialised hospitals to have the opportunity to work closely together and not to be secretly competing with each other at the same time. We think the system should look like this. The GP refers the patient to the county hospital. That's a full-fledged hospital, including policy, bedroom, operating rooms, emergency room and a department of acute obstetrics. There is a direct line between specialist and general practitioner. In the case of complex care, the specialist sends the patient to a specialised hospital. The specialists from the local hospital are in close contact with those from the specialized hospital, in preparation for the time when they take care again. Example one. A patient in his 50s is suffering from heart problems and is being treated for a long time by the cardiologist at the regional hospital. At some point, it turns out he's going through open-heart surgery. He is referred to a high-specialist hospital, where they often perform this operation and are therefore good at it. A few days after the operation he is transported back to the local hospital with the ambulance. This is because care is simpler in nature. His family and friends can visit him more easily. And the high-specialist hospital has another bed free for the next patient who needs open-heart surgery. Example two. A patient reports with back pain to the emergency department of the county hospital. The patient appears to have an acute aneurysm and is transported by ambulance to a highly specialised hospital and operated within two hours. A few days later, the patient is transported back to the local hospital. Example three. A patient reports to the emergency room at the local hospital with dizziness and appears to have a dangerously low haemoglobin level. That is a common life-threatening but very well-solved condition. The patient is admitted to the local hospital itself, gets a bag of blood, the medications are better tuned and after a few days the patient goes home and has not kept a bed occupied in a specialized hospital. This is what hospital care should look like. This is so different from those breakdown mantras like "the right care in the right place." I mention the example I gave last year, which I did not receive an answer to a year later, from a specialist who actually starts for himself and actually starts his own tocoat in the neighborhood and what they are dealing with. First, they already have to deal with the competitive clause with the hospital and that the patients do not know where their specialist went and that they think they might have died. That they are seen by the inspection as a small hospital and must meet 94 conditions. That they are dealing with 400 different suppliers and you name it. And if they're all set up, of course half of them are already running back to the hospital and they work for 70% of the budget, then the insurers come and they just give an extra discount, another 50% extra discount. They just do. But those specialists with their own shops, their own clinics in those neighborhoods, have to pay the full bill for everything. It can't be. The right care in the right place is a farce. It's a false pretence to tear down half our hospitals. And the alternative is nothing at all. It's the same as what happened to the nursing homes. We'll be crying at what was once our hospital care in 10 years. I ask the Minister: respond to my proposal last year, do something with it and stop that crazy project. Make sure we have hospitals for the next 20 years, so that that 75-plusser whose number doubles has a place in the hospital. Don't break down, don't throw your shoes away until you get new ones. If we've had the baby boomer, the generation after that, the ageing population and you name it in 2040, then you're gonna tear down those hospitals if you think you don't need them anymore. But it can't be to want to do this for the next ten years with everything that comes to us? Dan: How to deal with a crisis of great magnitude? In order to be prepared for a next pandemic, disaster or terrorist attack, we want a separate healthcare crisis reserve organised separately from regular hospital care. If we had a crisis reserve of 2,000 ic-beds, 5,000 regular beds and 25,000 healthcare reserves and supporters in the past, the regular care would not have been scaled down. In this plan, regular hospital care only comes into view when the crisis reserve is overflowing. In addition, we need to produce and manage personal protective equipment and equipment so that they cannot be sold to foreign countries by market forces. This plan was also dismissed by the VVD Minister. Again, you can't afford this. What if another Chinese guy throws a bat in a wok? This idea is not being implemented by the VVD Minister either, but it is being picked up and recorded in its own election programme. I quote: 'That means that we are willing to invest extra in flexible spare capacities'. Yes, I can see some of you laughing here, but the Minister is standing here plotting these plans. Again, you can't afford to poach good ideas from the opposition and do nothing with them, but then take them for your own election program. When it comes to healthcare costs, you can read back my extensive contributions from previous years. The bottomline, which is also the responsibility of all of us, is that the economy continues to grow. If that is done, the concern will continue to fluctuate around 10% of GDP. If you fail to do so, if you destroy the economy as well as the care, then the care will grow out of control, but also the police, education and defence. So stop crying and get to work. Finally, Mr President, I say to the rulers: do what you have to do. Fix the problems. Get ready for what's coming. Do what you're hired to do. Take care of our employees. Make sure our elders have a roof over their heads soon. Take care of our hospitals. Ensure a proper organization of our care. Take care of our care. It's our concern. Let the sample of ageing fade through the shine of silvering. And if you're not willing to do that, just stop. Then let's do it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. On 25 June 2014 I was sworn in as a Member of Parliament. A day and a half later, my mother died. She died after having a heart attack at the end of May of that year. And no, although my mother had had a heart attack more than twenty years before, she did not die as a direct result of that heart attack. She died as a result of the subsequent care provided to her. After her infarct, it was decided to investigate where the damage to the heart had occurred. In this study a blood clot was released, resulting in a cerebral infarction and semi-sided paralysis. After two weeks she died as a result of pulmonary embolism. Why am I telling you this? Looking back, I wonder if my mother's heart examination was appropriate or sensible care. Did it add anything to the quality of life? No, that didn't add it, not even so much because she died directly as a result of that viewing study, but because the information that had produced the research from where the damage to the heart was, didn't lead to any further action, because with my mother's age and physical condition there was no further repair or treatment possible or necessary, according to the doctors. How appropriate or sensible was that investigation? As far as my mother is concerned, I do not blame anyone, and I leave it very clear, but the demand for appropriate care, for quality of life, is a question that we need to put more strongly, in the interests of the patient and in the interests of care in general. Because last year, too, we discussed these issues. We face major challenges when it comes to care. Those challenges are not gone. In fact, they're getting worse. The biggest challenge we face and which has been painfully exposed during the COOVID-19 crisis is the shortage of staff in the care sector. We see bright spots, such as the news that 17% more students have started the HBO course in nursing. However, more structural solutions are also needed to reduce the outflow of staff and to link people to care for a long time. Another major challenge is the affordability of our care. This year, too, we see that the government is going to spend 4.5 billion more on healthcare. Total expenditure in the state budget amounts to EUR 86.7 billion. The pressure on the budget will continue to increase in the coming years. A third challenge is the growing demand for care and the associated accessibility of care. The increasing ageing population and the increasing number of chronically ill patients mean greater use of care. This will help to put further pressure on the two challenges mentioned above, the shortage of staff and affordability. The increasing demand for care therefore also demands that care be kept accessible to everyone. This can only be achieved if we are open to organising our care in a different way, precisely so that we can continue to provide sufficient care. Mr. Chairman. We see that in these challenges, the corona crisis is the last push to really move on to solutions. Our concern over the past few months has shown what he is capable of, but also that not everything is perfect. The corona crisis has given us an insight into how we should better organise the appropriate care for patients, because that is ultimately what this is about: the patient. History teaches us that an impactful event like the corona crisis forces us to choose a different path instead of always continuing on the same path. There is no doubt that the corona crisis has an unprecedented impact on our society. In addition, it is good to also look at what the first wave and also the second wave have brought us in a positive sense. Points that have been discussed for years have now been settled from one moment to the next. We have to hold on to this path. We must not go back to the old situation, a situation that no longer meets the requirements of modern times and no longer fully meets the needs of the patient. Mr. Chairman. I told you, the care has shown what it is capable of. Therefore, I do not want to have a system discussion today, as some do, but I would like to comment on the buttons we can turn on to optimise our care where necessary. Our healthcare system is one of the best in the world, as has recently been established in the report De Zorgverzekeringswet in perspective of De Argumentenfabriek. At the same time, this brings with it the responsibility to maintain the system, so that it remains one of the best in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u30	I am trying to listen carefully to what Mr Veldman is saying. On the one hand, he says we can't go back to the pre-corona crisis situation. We have seen that the enhanced cooperation in this crisis is desirable, so we must continue to change. On the other hand, however, Mr Veldman says that we are not going to have a system discussion. Can Mr Veldman here not admit that the system we have now also has very serious disadvantages, that market forces in healthcare also demotivate people in care very much and we need those people very badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u31	The shortest answer is no, but let me explain why I do not want to talk about a system discussion. Because if we did, we'd be ten years ahead of a new system. And in those ten years, the world has changed even further than it already has and the patients, the people in the country, haven't gotten anywhere with it. This is what this is all about. We have a system with a private domain, where private players, private providers, are surrounded by public conditions. The point is that, in these public conditions, we are going to look at how we organized things. Where are the things that don't go well? I shall be speaking about this in more detail in a moment, but let us mention one which I think we agree on, which I think we agree on. That is that the production incentive that is now in funding has been worked out. It has brought us a lot, which has solved the waiting lists we had for 2006, among other things, but has been worked out. So you need to see how you want to do it differently. I will deal with that in detail in a moment. But that's the button you need to turn. That doesn't mean you're changing the system. It means you're gonna adjust one of the buttons in that system. In this way, we can also discuss other points in detail, and I shall be able to discuss them in detail in the near future. And we can do that without changing the system we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u32	We certainly need to do something about this production incentive. I think that is a good example of a market operation that we do not want: to finance on production, to have more turnover. You just want to go to cooperation. You want to go to a system, to a care in which complicated patients are taken seriously, even though you cannot earn on it as a care institution. But I have another question for Mr Veldman. He also says: we have a big problem with staff shortages. And it is precisely that staff who are kláár with the timewriting, which is kláár with the competition between healthcare institutions, who are kláár with forms filling out for one health insurance provider and the other health insurance provider. They're clinging to that competition in care. If Mr Veldman really means what he says, if he really wants to stand up for the staff and really want to ensure that we have enough staff in the future, then he will also have to take their call seriously and he will also have to do something about that market operation in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u33	All the examples mentioned by Mrs Ellemeet have nothing to do with market forces. In any case, I notice that when we talk about care, parties like GroenLinks and others on the left side of the spectrum always talk about market forces. I never talk about market forces. I'm talking about healthy competition, challenging each other, making sure you're the best at your job. That's what carers like. They just want to be the best at their job. And yes, I agree with you that if you look at the practice, there are a lot of things we need to improve. I call it five minutes of writing time, one of the spearheads of the health minister's action plans. This was abolished in the cabinet of the Balkenende IV in 2009. It's one of the few good things that that cabinet did. And still time is written in some organizations. Ridiculous, I agree with you. Cut the crap! And yes, I agree with you that far too many forms need to be filled out, that the data exchange in care is not good. So, yes, in my text, the question to the Minister is when we can expect the law to improve it. What further steps does it intend to take, because there are still more steps to be taken. I agree with you, but that still does not mean that we should talk about the system, about the health system. Because that doesn't help a patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr. Hijink. No, Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u35	This is really gonna trigger a reaction. Mr Veldman says that we should not talk about the system and the functioning of the market, but it is precisely because the completion of all these forms, for each health insurance company separately, has everything to do with the operation of the market! It is precisely that competition between health care institutions has everything to do with market forces! Whatever word you put on it, ultimately it's about this system, how we organized it now, with those private health insurance companies that make an important contribution to it, having unwanted outcomes. Then I find it silly and also simply unwise to say: we should not talk about that. Let's have an open discussion with each other! Let us be honest and say that some things do not work well in the care sector, and that also has to do with the functioning of the market. Then let's do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u36	Again, that has nothing to do with how we organized the system. That has nothing to do with the label. No matter how you organize it, if you spend money, if you perform activities, you will also have to make visible in a certain way what you have done and what it has cost to justify yourself. I would recommend that Mrs Ellemeet take a look at the NHS in the United Kingdom. A nationally organized system without health insurers, where there is even more bureaucracy than here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u37	When a VVD says it wouldn't be about market forces, of course he's just talking out of his neck. He's really full of shit! Well, Mrs. Bergkamp, it's not that bad. He's just full of shit! I'm gonna say it again: a VVD guy who says it's not about market forces, he's full of shit. This has everything to do with the system and it has everything to do with market forces. Healthcare insurers who have to compete for patients. Caregivers who have to fight each other out of the tent to keep their heads above water and fight for patients. The fact that in the ggz 30% to 40% of the time goes on bureaucracy, contracts with insurers, has everything to do with the system of market forces introduced by the VVD. So don't come up with any talk that it wouldn't be about the system. It is the system introduced by the VVD at the time and has also been designated as a market-functioning system. That would make it better and it would make it cheaper. That just didn't work out! And, of course, we have to have that discussion today. Why wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u38	I am very proud of the system we introduced in 2006, because since 2006 we have not known the waiting lists as we knew them then. And yes, it is true: care has become more expensive over the past 14 years, since 2006. That has a lot to do with the fact that we have more people who have a disease. That has a lot to do with the fact that we can do more, and it has a lot to do with the fact that the things we can do more are also a little more expensive than 10, 20, 30 years ago. So you have to organize it in a good and efficient way. And yes, we do. With all the healthcare providers we have in the Netherlands, we do. And that is possible within the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u39	The VVD has rigged a system in which it pays to carry out more acts. That's what the VVD did. Hospitals are paid per operation. The more you do, the more money you get. Would you do that in other sectors? You know exactly... if we paid Hugo the Young for every word he says, we're still not done with this next week. It has always been dusty, but that stimulus is an incentive that the VVD itself built in? Look what's going on in social services. Look what's going on in the care of the elderly. Everywhere there is an incentive to think commercially, to make profits and that profit incentive makes care priceless. The song is not priceless. This care is priceless. The VVD is apparently the only one who still does not see it, and it is the only one who denies that there would be market forces, while they were still so proud of the introduction of the system that market forces would solve all the problems. This story of the VVD is no good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u40	I fully agree with Mr Hijink that we should not pay our health minister on the basis of the number of words he says, just as we should not pay him on the basis of the number of times he stays here, so as to make the comparison with care. Indeed, we have had this production incentive in the healthcare sector since 2006. For this we financed on the basis of the number of beds. So it was lucrative to keep people in the hospital for as long as possible, because if someone was in a bed, you were paid, while we all know that a patient prefers to recover at home. I just told Mrs Ellemeet what it got us. Yeah, there's a limit to that production incentive, so we're gonna have to deal with that. I'll talk to you about that in a minute. Now I've lost what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u41	That I was right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u42	So you have to do something with this production incentive, but that doesn't mean that the system as such doesn't work. The system works, only you have to turn a number of buttons to make it improve. So you can also not go back to what we had, by financing on the basis of the number of beds. Then you will see the effect of putting people back into beds, while I am so proud of our Dutch hospital care because we are champions of outpatient treatment. People often don't even have to stay in the hospital anymore and can go home in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u43	I see Mr Renkema wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u44	I hear the spokesperson of the VVD now saying: we do not actually have waiting lists anymore. He said that twice. I can't believe my ears. I am really bewildered to listen here. At least in the ggz we have huge waiting lists. I have had a lot of debates about this with this Secretary of State over the last two and a half years. There are people on the waiting list. There are families who are afraid that their son or daughter will put an end to life. My mailbox is full of that. People should not wait three, four, nine or twelve weeks; no, they should wait eight, nine, ten, twelve months for treatment. Would Mr Veldman also say to those people: the waiting lists are no longer there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u45	No. In my reply to Mr Hijink, I spoke about medical care, because Mr Hijink spoke about hospitals. In the hospitals we no longer know the waiting lists as we had before 2006. Are they all gone? No, they're not, but the waiting lists we had, they're gone. The waiting lists we now have in hospitals are often simply due to staff shortages. They're there because there aren't enough doctors and nurses to do the job. You're talking about the ggz and yes, there are waiting lists. And yes, we have something to do. I think we certainly have something to do with the number of referrals from people who do not really belong to that ggz, so that the people who really belong there do not have to be on such a waiting list and people who really need that care can be helped quickly and immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u46	It's a little silly that all of a sudden it's all about the hospitals. The ggz is a form of concern that people encounter incredibly many problems. I would like to challenge Mr Veldman to make the link with market forces there too. The reason those waiting lists are there in the ggz has everything to do with the fact that providers of care choose patients who are relatively easy. It has been said in a debate a few months ago: difficult patients are "a business risk." They're "unprofitable." So the relationship between waiting lists and market forces is very hard in the ggz. I would also like to comment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u47	I do not want to go into the question of whether I fully agree with Mr Renkema's analysis. Let's say it's completely throbbing, then it doesn't say anything about the system. Then that says something about the framework conditions that we have set with each other. That is precisely what is so beautiful about the system we have: we have private providers within the care system, which are surrounded by public conditions. If we think that something is not going well or not good enough, then you have to do something about those conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u48	I want to go back to the beginning, the beautiful, personal opening of Mr. Veldman with what he said about his mother's end of life. Then I thought, "What happened?" We also had a comprehensive report from the Steering Group on Appropriate Care in the last phase of life, which actually indicated exactly this problem, namely overhanding it and not speaking enough about the questions surrounding the end of life. Sometimes it seems as if the discussions come back after a few years, as if we are not moving forward. After this report, the doctors, the nurses and the elderly unions said: we are going to work on this. Is this working enough? Does it have the effect of having an occasional report from a steering committee, after which everyone gets to work to do the right things?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u49	I do not know the specific report that I believe Mr Van der Staaij is carrying at the moment. Is he asking me more generally: should we stop doing so, so should we stop looking at the quality of life instead of just starting treatments? If he asks me, I agree with him. I shall come to that in a moment when we are talking about value-driven care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u50	That's good to hear, but that wasn't my actual point. For me, it was a bit of a symbol of the fact that we sometimes have discussions here about topics that everyone says: yes, good point. It is often good to start projects, set up steering committees, run pilots. Then there are often beautiful documents. I sometimes think, "What about now?" Does all of that really think it's his way to practice? A few years later, there are all new people. And a report like that five years ago, yeah, who remembers it? Then the party actually starts a bit again. So I'm also kind of looking for an answer to the question of how you actually guard that all these wonderful projects, pilots and so on, are actually being implemented in practice. If that were to happen, we would be able to make so much progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u51	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. From the moment I was allowed to speak within my group in the field of medical care, medicine policy and anti-infectious disease control, I have intended to continue to wonder every day. And that worked, because I still wonder every day about beautiful projects that I come across and everyone enthusiastically says: this is good and we have to do this. And then I see again that in other places the wheel is reinvented. A little bit goes with that: not invented by me. It wasn't invented by me, so I'm gonna do my own thing. I find it annoying to say, but it is true: in the care there is sometimes a bit conservative thought. People think we're doing it the way we did it, so let's keep it that way for a while. When it comes to digitisation, I will come to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u52	I would like to continue on Mr Van der Staaij's point. I believe that a steering committee or working group was set up a year and a half ago, led by Mr Repping. He has inventoried with other doctors from different professions whether we are actually providing sensible care. Are there treatments that do not make sense because they are not effective, because there are better alternatives, because the treatment is actually only a earning model and not a treatment? I'll say that last thing in my words. From that inventory were 1,100 treatments. And all those treatments are actually still being reimbursed. This also has to do with the fact that this cabinet refuses to say to the insurers: you will no longer reimburse those 1,100 treatments. If there's one thing the cabinet has to do today, it's that it has to at least promise that it's going to work with those results. Does Mr Veldman agree with me? If the cabinet does not do so, we will be back here in three years' time and there will be another working group. So I say to Mr Veldman that care is not expensive because people are asking for too much care. No, the care becomes expensive because there are too many people in it who find the care a earning model and don't want to say goodbye to it. Among other things, these 1,100 treatments are an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u53	With Mrs Ploumen's appreciation of her own analysis, namely that it is a earning model, I do not agree. I do agree with her that there are too many treatments. Mr Repping has drawn up a list of these, and I think there is also a list of the Healthcare Institute which contains 1,630 treatments. We also discussed this last time during a general consultation. We have to stop doing that. And yes, it seems the simplest thing to say: then the insurer should not pay for such treatment anymore. But the complicated thing is that sometimes, in a single case, a particular treatment makes sense. That's what insurers say. So I'd like to take the step. We shouldn't be looking at that health insurance guy. We should be looking at the caregivers. Because how can we do 60,000 knee-watching operations when according to the standards of what's good, only 20,000 are needed? That means that in this country there are 40,000 doctors looking into one knee when that is not really necessary. So I think there's a joint mission, in full width, to start only treatments and therapies that the patient really needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr Veldman uses his own hammer on his own nail, because this is, of course, the best example of what Mrs Ellemeet said. He hits his own nail with his own hammer and his own thumb is in between. It is, of course, painful, because it perfectly illustrates what Mrs Ellemeet said, that there are far too many incentives in this healthcare system that point in the wrong direction, namely: if you do as many viewing operations as possible, you will also get as much compensation as possible. So that's one problem. The second problem is: we don't know who to look at. According to Mr. Veldman, we should not look at the insurers, but at the caregivers, and the cabinet is not involved at all, which should have the direction. So I insist that my analysis was spot on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u55	The first observation by Mrs Ploumen really surprises me a bit. She said, "That's the nail on his head." In the interrupting debate with Mrs Ellemeet, we had found that, in my opinion, we also think that we should think of something else for the production incentive that we now know. This is reflected in the original objective of 2006. So you're gonna have to turn that button. We'd just found each other in there. In fact, I think I called it three quarters of a year ago. A number of people fell off their seats: gosh, the VVD saying that. I've been saying this for a while. So I agree with you there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u56	It is, of course, always nice to see election programmes come out during a budget debate. I have had the opportunity to tackle the VVD's election programme, and it is true: the removal of production incentives is prominent in your election programme. But it also says: but take into account the outcomes for patients. I would like to have a better explanation on this point, because it seems that the VVD wants to sit here on the doctor's chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u57	Perhaps I could ask Mr Kuzu to listen back to the beginning of my speech. It's the patient that matters to me. That is why it is also stated in our election programme: it is ultimately about the patient and the quality of life of that patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u58	I listened very carefully to Mr Veldman's contribution. But I'm asking a question right now, and then it's very easy to point it back. I am asking for clarification on that point. If you take very prominently in your election programme that the results for the patient should be leading, is that the job of politics, of the health insurance company, of the professional? Whose job is that, anyway? Is that the task of the VVD, or does the VVD take on that task here? That's just a very enlightening, clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr Kuzu has read our electoral programme, so he has also seen that there is no annex to it which lists what those results should be. Those outcomes are patient-dependent. If we had the same acute problem now, you might have a different solution than I do. It's about that patient, the individual. That is why I have been appointed more often: it is not just about what the doctor thinks and what the doctor can do, it is about getting a treatment plan in consultation with the patient. Together, it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u60	But now a curtain is being erected with a great deal of uncertainty, because this is about the financing of care. How do you intend to finance for all those patients who come to a hospital, all those patients who have a treatment, person-oriented and outcome-oriented, how should that be done? Isn't that an unexploited case and populism of pure sang?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u61	No, that's not an unexplored job. We now have in medical care a system based on the number of operations, i.e. a production incentive. I'm going to talk about more value-driven care. You can also think of financing models. Is that easy? No, that's not easy. For if you were going to judge MPs by the value they have, then Mr Kuzu will be looked at differently than me, depending on who you ask. Can you put a salary on that? It's complicated. That complexity is reflected in the care. It is not so easy to label the results and then to finance them, but it is possible. So you need to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u62	In my own contribution, I will also devote a part to this later. Because this is like a chicken nesting on a spoiled egg: for a very long time, since 2006, the care system is nested, and it's just a spoiled egg. You can try to breed on it even longer, you can try to bring in anything, but it's breeding on a spoiled egg. The VVD should at least be open to having a conversation and an open debate about how the system is going to be modified, instead of continuing to breed on a spoiled egg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u63	If we were on that egg since 2006, Mr Kuzu could be right, but that is not the case. We have had the current system since 2006. For a few years, we have been saying to each other: we need to slowly but surely make adjustments to the public framework conditions that we have, in our financing model, in how we organised things with each other. We have been working on this for a number of years, but not since 2006. Then the egg would indeed not be very good anymore. Mr President, I shall continue. In my introduction, I mentioned the three biggest challenges that we will all have to face as far as the VVD is concerned. Let me now turn to the solutions that we see. Mr. Chairman. The common thread in the corona crisis is the availability of staff in care. We know there's not enough staff. The staff that is there is under enormous pressure. The absenteeism and the outflow of nurses and nurses in particular are too high, whereas these are the forces that we need most right now. We have often talked in the Chamber about the appreciation of care staff. That the appreciation should be better, we all agree on that. About the way there's discussion. The VVD also sees appreciation in making the profession more attractive. These improvements may include more attention to the training of care staff, scheduling, reduction of administrative burden, the ability to work not only part-time but also full-time, paid overtime more often, and perhaps the most important factor in controlling the quality policy of the care institution. Mr. Chairman. Together with GroenLinks, the VVD has drawn up an initiative proposal that we hope to submit shortly. The consultation is complete. This is about improving the control of care personnel in the quality policy of the care institution. Research shows that in places where caregivers experience higher satisfaction with management and management, there are measurable better outcomes for patients. For example, patients report higher satisfaction and lower mortality rates are also reported. The link becomes even stronger when caregivers feel more involved in the policy. The guarantee of influence sees the VVD as a win-win situation. The healthcare provider gets more ownership over care provided and the patient gets better quality care delivered. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the leaders what concrete actions have been taken or are being put in place to make healthcare professions more attractive. What more solutions do health care providers propose themselves? What does the Minister do with these suggestions? Because the appreciation can and must be improved. Our care staff is indispensable. They always have been, and that has become even more visible now. Mr. Chairman. Then the affordability of care. As I said in my introduction, even next year more money will be spent on healthcare. The share of the Dutch gross domestic product we spend on care will increase from around 13% to 20% if current policies continue. If this continues, the costs will become unsustainable and insured persons, workers and employers will no longer be able to bear the costs. Mr. Chairman. One of the places where cost control can take place is in the insurance domain. Too often we see that proven non-effective care is reimbursed. The Healthcare Institute is now going to put its teeth in this. The VVD welcomes this development. But this step requires responsibility from all partners in the chain: researchers and pharmaceuticals to provide sound scientific evidence of the functioning of treatment and medicines, doctors and healthcare professionals to adapt and keep up-to-date and to remove proven non-effective treatments, and health insurers to focus on prevention, appropriate care use and value-driven care. Are all parties prepared to make an effort to this end? Where the hell is it going now, I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u64	I should have pulled the sprint a little faster from my spot, because my interruption is about the appreciation of the care workers, which Mr Veldman just said something about. We know that in recent months Mr Veldman's party has always said no to the request to do something about the salaries for the people in care and to appreciate them in their pockets. He has just mentioned a number of issues in which this valuation could also take place, whether it is about other schedules, less administration and so on. I also saw those parts in the VVD election programme. The typical thing about those parts is that they're all really things we have little to say about here. We do have something to say here about the amount of money that is available to really improve these working conditions. Mr Veldman didn't just say anything about that. Do you think he'd like to say anything about that? What can healthcare workers expect from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u65	I believe that we have the same amount of things to say in all these areas, because, in the spirit of Mr Kerstens, we are not directly talking about salaries either. These are established between employees and employers. As a government, we are adding a pot where employers do not have sufficient resources, to achieve a market-based salary. That's what we do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u66	Exactly. So here we determine the scope for the collective bargaining parties, employers and trade unions to make decent wage agreements. Now it is not only the trade unions but also the employers themselves who have been saying for some time that wages really need to improve, if you want to keep the sector attractive and you want to bring in enough new people and keep the current people. I understand from Mr Veldman that the VVD did not really want to do anything about this in recent years, but that there is nothing to be expected from the VVD for care workers in the future either. Keeping up with the market doesn't catch up. Then you're really gonna have to run a little faster than the rest of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u67	I have heard, like Mr Kerstens, that the employers too, through Mr Melkert, who is probably well known to Mr Kerstens, have said that they believe that there should be good and market-oriented salaries. I would like to say to Mr Melkert: it seems to me to be a good starting point for an employer who also wants to come to that kind of collective agreement. Looking at the collective agreements of recent years, I note that these have been market-compliant increases. In some parts of the concern, they were even above market conform, or above the market, so they were not even market conform. I believe that the employers should also take on this challenge and ultimately come up with salaries that fit within what is paid within the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u68	I have Mrs Agema, Mrs Van Esch and then Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u69	Of course, there are employees in the care that are well paid, market-oriented, but that does not apply to everyone. I would like to know from Mr Veldman whether he thinks that a full-time nurse should be able to be economically independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u70	I believe that we are all trying to ensure that someone who has full-time work is able to live a good and decent life. Where this is not possible, there are surcharges, such as the care allowance, the rent allowance and other supplements. I believe that the overall package should ensure that people who have a minimum income can also have a normal life in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u71	Of course, that's the problem. A very large part of the care workers do not get the ends tied together. This is not the case to a very large extent either, but a large proportion of the care workers simply do not get the ends tied together, while they do work full-time. I think the VVD in there is too blunt and too hard. I believe that the VVD should ensure that someone who works full-time in health care can also be economically independent with that. I want to ask you one more question. Mr Veldman said that unproven effective care should go away. That sounds so good! That sounds fantastic! That could be back on a VVD poster. But, of course, it cuts in practice there. We have a panic debate here every year when it comes to the reimbursement of Orkambi, Pompe, Fabry or high mountain treatments. Every time the Healthcare Institute says it's not gonna compensate for something because it finds something scientifically insufficiently substantiated, unhelpful or unproven effective and it gets thrown out, it turns out there's another group of people who fall between shore and ship. Quite specifically, the Healthcare Institute said that the Orkambi medicine for cystic fibrosis does not work in 76% of patients and so it is not medically proven effective and therefore we should not reimburse it. But it works for 24% of the patients. For 24% of patients, it means that they will not die of suffocation. So my question to the VVD is: how does the VVD get from slogans to practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u72	By leaving the practice where it belongs: in the hands of the healthcare providers themselves in consultation with patients. And yes, in doing so, I would like to set my sights on what experts say. We have set up the Healthcare Institute for this. This is available in order to prevent us from having the political debate here on what is appropriate, sensible and appropriate concern. 'Cause it's not my place to judge that. I think it is up to us together what your party colleague Jansen did in one of the earlier general discussions we had this year about these huge lists of non-sustainable care or proven non-effective care, the 1,630 treatments I was just talking about with Mrs Ploumen. I believe that we have said to the House-wide, including your colleague Jansen, that we should not do it if it is proven to be ineffective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u73	The VVD confirms here that if the Healthcare Institute says that Orkambi medicine does not work for 76% of patients, 24% of children with cystic fibrosis can choke. And yet they don't get it from the VVD. That's shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u74	I'd like to go back to the healthcare paychecks. Mr Veldman says very easily that everything is going to be all right. If we look at the figures now, we can see that this cabinet is taking away 0.5 billion in government contributions to care. We see that pension contributions are going to rise considerably. If you make calculations, they mean that some of the carers, especially those with low salaries, are at risk of falling in purchasing power. Let this get to you: in this corona crisis we ask so many of these people and these caregivers are threatening to decline in purchasing power. Will Mr Veldman take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u75	No, I want us to do whatever it takes on all fronts. But when I look back at the debates we have had over the last six months on healthcare salaries, I see that those debates were a bit one-sided. That is what I am tasting with Mrs Ellemeet: in general, salaries must be raised. I think it's a little more complicated and we've asked the Cabinet for a broader analysis: where and how does it come from? Then you can do something more focused. The cabinet has asked the ESC again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u76	I think that Mr Veldman just once referred to the word 'prevention' as a solution, but he is essentially asking the cabinet how we are going to solve the problems of prevention. In any case, I can offer you one solution, namely simply not to allow the food industry to co-write the Prevention Agreement. I can't wait to see how you feel about that. I believe that this is one of the very simple, not very complicated solutions that we can use to keep and allow the Prevention Agreement, which was still ambitious at the beginning, to be ambitious. I wonder if the VVD agrees that we can make that simple step very easily now, now that it really indicates that prevention could be a solution for preventing many sick people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u77	The question that I am being asked is whether I agree that companies are not at the table. I disagree with that statement. I think it is true on all fronts in the care that we should do it together, so also when it comes to prevention. It's the companies that make products, so if you want something with those products, you're gonna have to talk to companies about what's possible. You shouldn't just talk about what you want, you should talk about what you can. I hear people say: sugar has to be from all products. Get sugar out of bread, then it crumbles. You can't do that. You can't take it out 100%. So you're gonna have to talk to companies about what's possible. Of course you can put some pressure on it. I couldn't agree more. But to put so much pressure on it that you're not talking to each other anymore and that you're just sitting here at the table with each other, without the outside world: that wouldn't be my idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u78	You will be ignoring the past few years when it has been very clearly stated that the Prevention Agreement has failed, because we leave so many parties from the food industry at the table. As a result, we now have a Prevention Agreement which we do not achieve. You say that prevention should be the solution to the problem, but you do not really think it should be. You say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But for that food industry, it's about selling their products as much as possible. We don't have to blame them, because that's their goal. Their goal is to sell as many products as possible. If we are in favour of prevention policy, we cannot say to each other: let us stay at the table with these companies, who want to make their profits in this way. That is not possible if we really want to go for prevention; these two things simply cannot go together. If you continue to argue for this, at least you are not in favour of prevention. We can now draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u79	I am very much in favour of prevention. I think we can do a lot more in that than we do now. I'll talk about that later. Mrs Van Esch now says of the Prevention Agreement, which was concluded in 2018 and which I believe has a look at 2040, that it has failed and that we are not achieving the goals. I think that's a bold theorem. I think you should ask the Secretary of State whether we are going to achieve the objective. That would be fair. To say after two years that it failed, that's tough, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u80	I think it is already said that, unfortunately, we are not going to reach the targets. I didn't think of that myself. I am already looking at Mr Blokhuis with half an eye, and I think he is already keen to respond. I'm sure we'll talk about it later or tomorrow. We certainly do that in our term. We already know that we are not going to reach the targets of the Prevention Agreement. I think we can already make a commitment to making the Prevention Agreement better. In my opinion, it has been stated from all sides, such as scientists, hospitals and doctors, that the food industry should really no longer play a role if we are to improve prevention. It would be a pleasure for you to endorse that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u81	I would not like to conclude right now that the Prevention Agreement has failed, despite what others might say about it. I do not think that does any credit to the Secretary of State's work either. What I think is important is that there is something more to be done in terms of prevention. I'll get to that in a minute. I think it is also broader than the topics of the Prevention Agreement itself. That was only a limited part. It was only about a few things from the broad scope of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. I would like to continue with the term I mentioned earlier: value-based care, or value-based health care. This term was coined by the American Professor of Business Administration, Michael Porter. Value-based health care is aimed at maximizing the value of care for the patient and reducing care costs. One of the elements that describes the transformation of care into value-based health care is the measurement of treatment outcomes and care costs for each patient. At the moment we still see a large volume stimulus in the care, while we also know that a patient does not always benefit from as many tests and treatments as possible. Much more important to the patient is the outcome of these treatments. We need to move from volume-driven care to value-driven care. The outcome should be leading, not the number of treatments required. In practice, this may mean that the patient can also refrain from treatment, because its outcome may give a higher quantity in life years, but may impair the quality of life. Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants healthcare providers to implement the principles of value-driven care more effectively, both for the societal task of maintaining the quality of treatment outcomes and avoiding unnecessary costs, as well as for the quality of life for the patient. Some medicines now have registers. The Healthcare Institute has started the Directie on Registers section. Does the Minister agree with me that there should actually be a register for every medical operation, every device and every medicinal product; a measure of the quality and effect of each medical operation kept in practice? Value-driven care can also play an important role in financing prevention. In our current funding, there is hardly any attention to prevention. Again, the volume stimulus comes back around the corner. Prevention pays for the patient, but not for the caregiver. It literally hits him in the wallet. In addition, we have cut the funding of healthcare in different sectors. Those who pay do not often reap the benefits of good prevention. For example, where a municipality invests in a healthy living environment, the income or cost savings often lie with the health insurance company. If we let the results for the patient lead in the funding, there is also more attention to prevention. If we see these developments in conjunction with more digital care, which I am going to go into a little more detail, we will be able to prevent people from getting into huge premium increases and we will also keep our concerns of high quality. I am curious to hear the Minister's first reaction to the Monday report of the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the Healthcare Institute. They also advocate funding on the basis of results and not on the basis of treatment or hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u84	First of all, let me say that the CDA has every support for more outcome-oriented care and for a learning culture in which we see how we can make care better. I'd like Mr. Veldman to give me a more detailed explanation of the value-based health care. This is also often discussed in relation to medicines. That leads to value-based pricing. It is said: I have a super-drug that allows you to get better much faster and so you don't have to take these tablets for another 20 years; so the price of my medicine is determined by the fact that you don't have to take another 20 years of tablets. I would like to ask Mr. Veldman what price formation value-based health care leads to. Mr. Veldman quite rightly wants to get rid of the volume incentives, but what price formation does this result in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u85	This is one of those questions we've asked before. I don't think there's a final answer to that. If I had that now, I think I'd be a bacon buyer. But it's a fair question. With new techniques and treatments that you need once a treatment instead of twenty or thirty years, you come to a different price. If you had to pay that other price at once, it would be very complicated for the financing of our healthcare system. In addition, you have no guarantee that you will be out of it after 20 years. It's really a repair in your DNA and gene system. I'd like to believe it. Thank you for the cuckoo; in 20 years it may not be. So you also have to see what appointments you make if you pay now. If it doesn't turn out to be, maybe we should get some money back from that pharmaceutical. Or if there are other complaints, maybe "pay less" applies. You'll pay less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u86	There's something else I want to know. This suggests that the entire pricing would be correct. According to the CDA, the whole approach to that pricing is wrong. You should see what the real cost of getting treatment has been. What research has been needed? That should be the basis for the price, not the potential benefits or how much I can get out of it as a company. I would like an answer to that. We talk about market forces here every time. At least, the VVD says that we should not change the system and that we should leave it that way. I see that there is now yet another system in which pricing is taking place on the wrong grounds, including these new proposals by Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u87	Maybe it's good to say it again: I'm not talking about market forces. You are all talking about market forces. But that aside. Mrs Van den Berg is right: there are a number of elements that determine what is ultimately the price of a product. This applies to all products. It also applies to medicines, treatments and therapies. You go to a new type of therapies and other treatments than "we prescribe someone a remedy, he swallows 20 or 30 years and we hope it goes well." Take baby Pia's needle, fixing something with one treatment. If you come to these therapies now, you have to have the discussion with each other, and we are going to do so about how you're going to reward them. Then what is the value of that product? I do not think we are yet at the end. But I agree with Mrs van den Berg that we must do things differently than we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u88	Then Mrs. Sazias. And then Mr Renkema, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr Veldman talks about value-based healthcare. 50PLUS, together with a number of parties, has repeatedly requested attention for tapering medications when taking antidepressants. Those phasing-out medications have now been proven to be effective. People take antidepressants for years. Keeping on swallowing those antidepressants is compensated, but not stopping it. How does Mr Veldman see this in relation to his story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u90	Fit inside what I'm saying. You need to look at the outcomes. So you don't have to take out one element. You have to look at the breadth of finance and production. If you adjust the entire funding, you should not take out one thing, as Mrs Sazias is doing now, but you should look at the whole thing, and see: what are we going to reward in the whole process of treating a patient? Then the outcome might be that we're going to do it differently than we are doing it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u91	It starts with one thing, and two, and three, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u92	Yeah, that's why. They're also great examples. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u93	This is a good example. So can I expect the VVD to support the phasing-out medication at any subsequent motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u94	No, because that's what I just said. It is not a question of fixing one or two things here, as Mrs Sazias now thinks we are doing. This is why I think it is a good example of how we look at how we can finance all our healthcare providers and all our healthcare institutions. On what basis do we pay them? Now we pay transactions in hospitals based on the number of operations. We see with each other that this will have a negative effect, given what we want to achieve. So my plea is not to finance more productively, but value-oriented, outcome-oriented. What does it add to the quality of life of the patient? And then I come to another financing model. So if Mrs Sazias were to table a motion that supports this, so that we are looking together at another financing model, which is yet another motion, because we have done this with each other before, I would support that motion. But don't take one out and say we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u95	Yes, you did. Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u96	Finally. Mr Veldman would therefore prefer to wait until we can improve the whole system and leave the small things that are better for the patient on the shelf. Such a shame!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u97	No, Mr. Chairman. This is so lame. It is really a little more complicated than Mrs Sazias is now suggesting. If you're going to turn one button, it's going to have an effect in another place. It's like a wheel with spokes. If you take out a few spokes, you'll see that the wheel is going to rumble on all sides and that you won't be able to cycle anymore at some point. So you have to do it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u98	Good. I don't know if you know, but this is your seventh question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u99	I've just consulted with my colleague. We are aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u100	I saw it happen. That's why I'm saying it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr Veldman said something interesting about prevention. He said: we see that municipalities invest in it, but that this does not yield much for them, but that it is interesting for health insurance companies. There you see a wonderful example of public investment, public costs and private profits. What is the VVD going to change to ensure that health insurance companies also invest in health?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u102	That's the question I'm asking: how can we do that to each other? I assume that at least the Secretary of State, but perhaps all three of the rulers, have more perspective than I have outlined. Mr Renkema is now asking me to put forward a clear solution to the way in which we are turning the whole system towards greater attention to prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u103	I suggest you move on, Mr. Veldman, because I think you have a lot to say when I hear all those announcements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u104	I'm just gonna answer the questions neatly, Mr. Chairman. I would've stayed on prevention. The use of prevention is indeed very important. We see that lifestyle diseases such as diabetes put a high pressure on the demand for care and the cost of care. Also during the corona crisis we saw that many patients on the ic were overweight. Several studies show that not only physical and mental health benefits can be achieved by sports and exercise, but can also reduce healthcare costs in the long term. The Prevention Agreement was concluded in October 2018. We were just talking about it. I'll ask the Secretary of State where we are now. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the various action lines and what is the situation with regard to the lines of action that I asked the Secretary of State for last year's budget debate? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the growing demand for care and the accessibility of care. More people have and get a chronic condition. In the Public Health Future Exploration from 2018 RIVM expects more and more people to have chronic diseases in the future. The number of people with chronic diseases is expected to rise to 9.8 million. That's 54% of the Dutch population. The proportion of people with multiple chronic diseases is also likely to increase. This increase can lead to enormous pressure on healthcare expenditure and, above all, on our healthcare staff. This will put further pressure on affordability and accessibility. We can and must avoid this pressure by embracing other forms of accessibility more effectively and thus reducing the burden on healthcare staff and keeping costs manageable. I am referring here to the use of smart care and more care close to home. Everyone always talks about remote care in digital care, but that puts the doctor at the centre. I think it's about the patient, so it's just care close. I have often pleaded for smart care, digital opportunities, more and better use. Digital applications offer many possibilities for caring for people with chronic diseases. Apps and digital monitoring can promote their own direction and inform the patient about their illness, treatment and well-being. In addition, patients often no longer need to go to the hospital. Digital applications can complement many healthcare providers and patients to make care personalised and offer in the right place at the right time. The rapid implementation of digital care has been demonstrated in recent months. At the start of the corona crisis, care is necessarily rapidly switched to digital care. Patients no longer had to come to the GP or hospital, but were helped through digital consultations. Even in emergency rooms, video bells were used to continue to provide good triage. The saying "under pressure everything becomes liquid" manifested before our eyes. I have spoken to many healthcare institutions that want to stick to this way of digital care. This seems like a good move. With all the challenges we face, the digital transition can be a huge added value for lasting and good accessibility of care. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we see that many care locations fall back to the traditional physical care provision. That's too bad. It is precisely this momentum that needs to be fully exploited for digital care. What steps will the Minister take to keep 2.0 applications permanently available to the patient? Digital is the new normal, her predecessor Bruins said. Mr. Chairman. This also applies to smart care close to home. We see in the field countless examples of ways in which care takes place no longer in the hospital, but at the patient's home, so care is close. For example, Isala in Zwolle has since 2019 the Connected Care Center. This programme stimulates the development and growth of hospital care where the patient no longer comes to the hospital, but receives care at home through, among other things, video calls or home monitoring, whereby the data can be read out in the hospital. This is an example of accessible healthcare close to home. I believe in the added value it has, especially for the patient, who no longer has to travel to a care facility, and for the care provider, who has more time for other patients, and, not least, for the affordability of care. Mr. Chairman. One point that also affects smart care is data exchange. We have also seen that during the corona crisis we could do more than before. As far as I am concerned, a good exchange of data is a prerequisite for providing appropriate care to patients. As far as I am concerned, the process does not end with the legislative proposal on electronic data exchange in healthcare, but we also deal with the possibility and optimisation of the personal health environment, the PGAs. That is the instrument with which the patient himself directs his own care. That is why I would like to know from the Minister what is going on with both routes and whether we can expect anything more during this cabinet period. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of data and data exchange, I have one final comment before my colleague, Mr Laan, will discuss, among other things, long-term care. The data in medical records can be useful for research, for example for comparative research between sick people and a healthy control group in order to study risk factors for diseases. Sometimes this leads to life-saving insights. The question is how, in the age of artificial intelligence, in the era of DNA sequence, genomics research, the balance between research interests and the patient's privacy interests should be made. In my view, this balance is now being made to the detriment of being able to carry out research. Dutch scientists are forced to use foreign medical data because our own data is not accessible. This can and must be different. Is the Minister prepared to modernise legislation and regulations? With an ageing population and with more cancer diagnoses than we want, it is in the interest of quality of life that our own scientists and doctors can work on new solutions. In doing so, I am happy to hand over the stick to my colleague Laan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap, also on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Human care. Last year has had many consequences and terrible consequences for many of us, for people who need care and those who care. Care workers have had a very hard time. My colleague has referred to this a number of times. More elderly people who need care and want their own place. An increase in the number of chronically ill. A shortage in this labour market, in which many people work with great passion. A rising pressure on carers who want to take care of their loved ones. We need a strong government that takes control wherever it is necessary and removes obstacles. For the VVD, people are at the heart of care and not the system. Care in which caregivers are seen not only as professionals, but also as people who work with passion in care. Care in which clients are seen not only as patients, but as people who need care and especially want to shape their own lives. Everyone does that with their own needs and wishes. That is a concern where trust in each other is the norm and not rules and long ticking lists are the norm. Together with care managers, representatives of healthcare offices and experts from the field, the Ministry and the NZa formulated a vision in Nuland last year on the future of nursing home care. "Care is human work. It starts with a client who needs care and the one who takes care of this person. Value arises in the relationship between the client and the care professional. We believe that the people who provide care are motivated by themselves to provide loving, but also professional, good care. The funding of care must be linked to this." I think it is a little too bureaucratic, but it is a very nice vision that I fully support. That is concern with man central. In this light, the cabinet would invest 2.1 billion in the Quality Framework. As a Rotterdammer, I am not only of words, but above all of deeds. What have the nursing home residents noticed of this investment in their own lives so far? What has it done to them in concrete terms over the past few years? What concrete results have been achieved with this investment and where did the money end up? Do health care firms have a quality vision of their own? Do the health care agencies put the money in places where they need it and where they can do their shopping well? The VVD wants healthcare agencies to make their purchases on the basis of quality plans. After next year, the 2.1 billion will end up in the tariffs. How do we ensure that the money is actually spent on the objectives of the Quality Framework? How do we prevent the sector from being pumped into 2.1 billion without it being spent on the right things and on the right things? That's what I'm asking the Minister. The follow-up to the Nuland opinion has been postponed, including the comprehensive comparison. That was logical given the circumstances. However, the VVD prefers not to see any more delay. One of the biggest problems in nursing care is the lack of nursing homes. My colleague has already referred to this. In cooperation with a number of colleagues, written questions have been asked about the need to invest in and invest in elderly homes and nursing homes, following a five-point plan by the ANBO, ActiZ and the Knarrenhof. The answer often shows that research is needed, that there is an investigation, that there are talks, that agreements are made, and so on. This will be spread over a number of years and I'm afraid we'll still be chasing the facts in the end. When you look at what is being done in concrete terms, you do not seem to be aware of the seriousness of the situation. Because it's too late. It's been years too late. Over the past four years there have been a lot of conversations and investigations, but hardly any construction has been done. Surely we cannot have known that we have been sitting still for four years, while the waiting list of the future is four years old? A place to live is one of the most important things in your life, especially if it is a place where you live and receive care. We cannot and must not deny the elderly of the future their place to live safely. The VVD would therefore ask the Minister to embrace and roll out the five-point plan of ANBO, ActiZ and the Knarrenhof. The field and municipalities have indicated that they have been very helpful in this respect. Can the Minister undertake to do this? Cooperation with the elderly and by the elderly. There are also other initiatives in the Netherlands in which young people and the elderly help each other. There are heartwarming initiatives, but too often I hear that these kinds of initiatives do not get grounded or can not be continued to other locations, because municipalities get in the way, which point to the national government, which in turn points to the initiators and the municipalities. The Minister recently agreed to conclude a residential care agreement in the spring of 2021. In the same consultation, the Minister indicated that all municipalities should have a housing vision in the middle of 2021. How can an agreement be reached if the overview is not yet clear? The danger is that we're gonna talk past each other again, when our noses really have to go the same way. I certainly do not want to say that the housing agreement will have to be pushed forward to the summer of 2021, but I would like to see as many buttons cut as possible, so that we do not have to wait for yet another report or research. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting old, too. I feel like I'm relatively young, but some parties say I could already join them. I'd rather not think about that for a while. But we'll all want a good and nice place when we grow up. We do not want uninspired elderly homes in which "floor" and "room for a rollator" are central. We want beautiful houses with greenery in company with others. In this way, care for each other can also be shared. It is therefore time to create sustainable policies for the long term, so that we can solve ever-increasing problems. How do we create awareness among the people who are now 50 years old that thinking about their third phase should start already? Will there be a long-term vision of the changing society with many more elderly people and the associated challenges, as requested by the Forest Committee in its TRAVEL Opinion? Such a vision should explicitly transcend the cabinet period, so that things can be set in motion with partners in society who do not change every four years. I refer, for example, to the agreement that the municipality of Rotterdam concluded with the cabinet at the time for Rotterdam-Zuid. That was in 20 years; then you can take steps. Mr. Chairman. The pgb is the means with which personal care is central; that is what the VVD found when the pgb was born 25 years ago, and we still find it on its 25th birthday. It allows people and their loved ones to take care of themselves and set up their lives as they wish, whether you have a slight or severe limitation and whether it is temporary or for your whole life. It is not a single sausage policy; the focus is on tailor-made care and on what individuals themselves want. The VVD believes in the power of people and sees the pgb as a crucial part to allow people to maintain their own direction. In order to do this, we need to fix the pgb now. We need to fix what needs to be done, but we need to keep the good. So we don't let the pgb succumb because it has expanded on all sides, but we bring it back to its power. That is why the VVD welcomes the investigation announced by the Minister to the pgb, to see how things stand. Over the past three years, the Minister has tried to set up and roll out a new digital system that makes it easier and easier for people to manage the pgb. The system is called pgb 2.0. The idea is that you don't have to go off a jungle of paper and don't have to have a master's degree to get through the technical terms. "Never take this away from us again," says one of the 6,000 lucky ones who was already allowed to connect to the portal in a newspaper. That sounds very nice. That sounds so good, it's almost too good to be true. After almost four years of rigging up, testing and tinkering, we're still in the pre-stage. It hasn't been rolled out nationwide and the whole project goes from postponement to postponement. There's so much delay that people are afraid it's gonna be set off. "Never take this away from us" has become no longer an expression of happiness, but an expression of despair. Where are we after three years? 6.415 out of 120,000 budget holders are connected, 6 out of 31 healthcare offices are connected and well connected 1 municipality. How the hell is this possible, you wonder? That has become quite clear: pgb 2.0 has, to stay in the spirit of time, become a Christmas tree. The basis was there to help people with a pgb; man was at the center. But in the whole process of putting up this pgb Christmas tree and with the positive criticisms of budget holders, the tree got more and more decorations. All kinds of wish lists had to be met. The result is a Christmas tree that threatens to fall because of the heaviness of the many ornaments. For the visual image: think of the Christmas trees of Melania Trump. According to the VVD, we must return to the basic and original purpose of the pgb 2.0 system: to simplify the contracting and declaration process with a link to the existing underlying systems. No more promises. Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants a concrete explanation from the Minister as to why this process has been taking place for so long and why there is still no progress. There is now a plan that the system will be rolled out in 2022. This Minister has been responsible for this since 2019. What guarantee can the Minister give that there will be no further delay? I would ask the Minister, through you, President, to inform the Chamber of the progress of this process every three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u107	I see Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u108	It is nice that the VVD is also a supporter of the personal budget. But when I read the election programme, it said that the pgb should only be used for care. Does that mean in concrete terms that the pgb in the Wmo will be abolished? That can't be the intention of the VVD, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u109	As you know, it's about a draft election programme. I think you can also read everywhere that there are quite a few amendments from the members of the VVD. I have also seen that there are amendments on this subject. As soon as the electoral programme is finally adopted, I would like to enter into this discussion with you. Then we'll see what they meant by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u110	But what does the VVD think now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u111	The VVD now finds it as we have it now arranged and organized. As far as I am concerned, there is still a discussion on what should and should not be covered. I didn't write the election programme like that, so I'm very curious to see what our members are going to write in the final programme. Right now, I'm not proposing a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u112	But then I conclude that the VVD that is holding the debate here today in the Lower House does not support the electoral programme, but believes that the pgb should remain in the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u113	At the moment, I am bound by our electoral programme and by the coalition agreement as we have signed it together. It says what it says now. Once again, I would like to express my reservations about our electoral programme as it will come forward with you in all the debates. I would just like to point out that there are different ways in which we think about it and I would like to know what it will look like later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u114	Proceed, Mrs. Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u115	It's your own direction. We are, of course, of that, you will understand. We also have something else that is very much on our own design, namely client support and the transition between the Wmo and the Wlz. There has been an experiment for this: personal care, which looked at what needed to change within customer support in terms of rules and legislation. This has shown very nice results. Thank you for that. We would like to see what more can be done with this now. So what is the concrete line of the results of this experiment? The Minister indicated in a recent AO that there would also be a legislative proposal for this in early 2021 and that the Chamber would hear the state of play before the end of the year. I think that's now. So: what is the state of play and when in early 2021 can we expect this law? There is another point which comes in short, namely an amendment which Mrs Ellemeet is about to table on the Ihbti community and people with disabilities. We are very pleased that she has taken this initiative. We would like to see the Minister react to this amendment. Then carers. This is a group that is very often forgotten or not represented in policy. That is far from the intention, so it is very important that this group gets the attention. The estimates of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau indicate that the number of carers per person is decreasing. The VVD believes that we should put the carers more at the centre. In addition, only 29% of the household care organisations experience that municipalities make sufficient use of the expertise and knowledge available on family care support. Less organisations than before experience improved support to carers over the past two years. These are frightening developments. How does the Minister ensure that this problem, which is now mainly experienced locally, does not develop into a national problem? How can we ensure that municipalities meet the basic conditions to shape good family care policies? For example, carers are too often unfamiliar with forms of support such as respite care. We also need to prepare ourselves as a society for what it is to be a caregiver. In the future, many more people will have to step in as caregivers. I'm gonna notice that already, and my kids are gonna notice that even more. Much is already being done to combine work and care, such as the collaboration with MantelzorgNL to make carers aware, yet there is still a world to win. What is the government doing in concrete terms to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family care? What additional steps does the Minister intend to take to facilitate the combination of work and family care? Where does the government itself stand in the way? There are many possibilities, but carers often don't know that themselves. Carers are often women who also work part-time. Is that because they provide care? Does that narrow them down? Because that can't be the intention. There are several forms of leave that carers can take. I would ask the Minister to map out the use of these different types of leave. By whom is this leave used?- are those fulltimers or parttimers and how often? Do all carers who work use a form of family leave? Those are just a few questions on this subject that I would like to see mapped out to see if there are any more bottlenecks that we need to resolve. Can the cabinet give a clear picture of the use of healthcare leave and take account of the correlation with part-time work? So I'm making an investigation request. Among the future of care, prevention is one of the most important pillars. My colleague has just said something about this. Sport is very important for the elderly and people with mental illness or disability. That's what I care about, too. Not only because you then have fun and can enjoy life or can do sports together with other people, but especially because it has a positive effect on the health of these groups. It is a medicine for many diseases and can work preventively in chronic diseases, says specialist Liesbeth Preller. It brings out the best in people and makes for a lot of fun. Think of the insane performance of athletes with disabilities in the Netflix documentary Rising Phoenix. As a VVD member, I can mention Netflix here as an example. Fortunately, there are municipalities that are specifically committed to this, such as my city of Rotterdam. There, VVD council member Pascal Lansink's plan has been adopted to make sports accessible to 71,000 people with disabilities with a special sports centre. I would like to ask the Minister on behalf of the VVD what the direction of the Minister of Sport can be to further roll out this plan in other municipalities, because in the end everyone deserves a chance to play sports. Human care is ultimately based on trust in each other, trust between the one who cares with his or her passion and the person who gets the care. When we put the system at the centre with all its rules and ticking lists, we sometimes lose sight of the people, when that's what it's all about. At the moment when we all create systems and procedures with the sole aim of making it clear who can be pointed out if something goes wrong, we lose sight of the ultimate goal of caring for people. In one of my conversations with people in the care department, a lady told me that she spends an hour and a half a day working on the administration: ticking, ticking, ticking. What could she have done in that hour and a half? We need to rely more on trust and not distrust. If we shut everything down with rules and procedures, care will become entangled. In recent years, the Minister has set up many programmes to disrupt, such as (Ont) Rules of Care and the Full Life Programme. Stacks of pilots, but what's the minister gonna do with that? How does the Minister ensure that it will not be the same as with the five-minute registration, which, as my colleague Mr Veldman said, had been abolished on paper, but still exists in practice? The last letter we received on this subject does not seem to show that it will soon disappear 100%. What further steps will the Minister take to give concrete form to the motion adopted by me and Mr Bergkamp? In recent months, we have already dropped many accountability requirements by corona and that gives noticeably much more room for people who work in care. We have to go through with it. Not back to square one. Another way to reduce the regulatory burden and workload for people working in healthcare is to stimulate the use of smart care. According to the VVD, smart care is not meant to replace human care, but to help people to take on their own direction. The Minister often points out that pilots and experiments produce positive results, but what is he going to do in concrete terms and how does he take the view of people with disabilities, for example, and older people? How's he gonna turn these things off and probably anchor them in society? Does the Minister intend to bring the most successful parts to justice in other parts of the country to other organisations? If so, how? If not, why not? How does the Minister measure the success of his own policy to promote the use of smart care? I ask this because, according to a report by the General Court, the success of the policy cannot be measured because there are no indicators to measure with. What is the Minister's response to this? What does he do to make it measurable so that we can build on the results and continue? Then the ggz. It is a dossier from my colleague, Mr Regterschot, but a subject that I would like to raise today. Because it still doesn't go well in the ggz. A comprehensive view of the ggz will only be prepared by a subsequent cabinet. If the views of the health insurance companies and of the Dutch ggz are taken into account, I ask the Secretary of State. How does this view relate to the main agreement? Will it be a vision of all kinds of parties together, which they also support and share responsibility for? What role do health care organisations and insurers have in this? The VVD believes it is important to have a common vision, just like the main lines agreement. That's the best chance of success. Mr. Chairman. Waiting lists above the bar standards, I don't find accessible care. Does not further digitisation offer a possibility to shorten the length of the waiting lists? And what about using psychodiagnostic workers? By using a so-called pdw in diagnosis, gz psychologists can spend time on treating patients. Can the Secretary of State undertake that these psychologists can actually write time at the end of the year and this administrative omission thus contributes to limiting waiting times? What touches it is the decline of the references in the ggz between the two corona waves. What is the Secretary of State doing for all these people in the reservoir of missed ggz care? Are all these people in the picture? Can a part be treated via the digital way? I'd like to hear it, because it can't be that the waiting lists because of corona are going to rise even further. I would like to conclude by saying that in this house we often talk about systems and big plans, where we run the risk of not actually changing people's lives. The VVD stands for adjustments that really work for the people who work in care or receive that care. I have done so myself in the past period, and I found that very valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. You did a great job, didn't you? I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks. I have presided over a great many budget debates, and it is indeed very strange that a number of colleagues are last in the budget, so I can very well imagine that this is sometimes considered. Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an outside...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u118	Yeah, for Henk, too. Henk van Gerven is here for the last time. And so is John Kerstens. I'm going to name it all tomorrow. You're not the only one, Mrs. Laan-Selschap. It's a bond. It's a bond. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u119	I'll leave that to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u120	That's good. And so is Mrs. Diertens. Once you start... Go ahead. Now I'm quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an extraordinary budget treatment, not only because some colleagues are doing this for the last time, but also because the corona crisis is under enormous pressure. Never before have so many Dutch people been so massively connected with the care and therefore also with our caregivers. This corona crisis demands a great deal from all of us, but it demands the utmost of caregivers. Every day they work with heart and soul to provide the best possible care for all patients under these harsh conditions. There was applause rightfully followed, but this is not enough. If we want to keep people in care, not only during this crisis but also in the future, in which we will need them so badly, then these ministers will really have to do more. To start with the wider allocation of the healthcare bonus. This spring, GroenLinks has already submitted a proposal to prepare the bonus, including to all medically supportive professions. And now we do that again, together with the PvdA and the SP, because it's still not settled. Doesn't the Minister think that the support medical staff, who worked extra hard, deserve this? I'd like a response. But there's more to it than that. Caregivers deserve more participation and control. My colleague, Mr Veldman, has already mentioned this. I wrote an initiative law with him. Control is essential for the enjoyment of work and also for the maintenance of staff. I ask the Minister what she wants to achieve in the area of control. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. At least as important is a structural wage increase in care, especially for lower incomes. When is the cabinet going to realize that something needs to be done about lower salaries now? Almost half a billion euros will be removed from the oval, but at the same time pension contributions will also increase by half a billion. The result is that many health care workers are at risk of falling in purchasing power next year. In this crisis, they are in danger of getting worse! We can't let this happen, can we? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is crystal clear that the Minister must intervene. Can it at least reverse the half-billion-dollar rebate on the public contribution to salaries and make these bets for low wages? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This corona crisis shows us painfully clearly that we have become too dependent on countries outside Europe for the production of our medicines and our medical devices. Over the past week, the European Commission has made several proposals to increase Europe's independence in the field of medicines and to enable more sustainable production. This is beautiful and inspiring and important, but we will also have to take action at national level. Countries such as Norway and Sweden set a good example. They not only look at the price of their procurement procedures but also include criteria such as sustainability and production location. Is the Minister prepared to include similar criteria in the Dutch drug production tender? I'd also like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. It feels weird to zoom out in the middle of this crisis and to look at our healthcare system and the future, but we must also now face the abuses that exist in the healthcare system. In fact, they should have been dealt with during this period of government. For it is the responsibility of politics not to let caregivers drown in a system of rules and bureaucracy, but to enable them to work together to provide the best possible care. Healthcare providers should not compete with each other in order to remain financially sound. People who need mental care should not be divided into profitable and non-profitable patients. Care cowboys should not make mega profits, and so should the pharmaceutical industry. Now several parties in this Chamber and also in their election programmes have said that they want less market forces in the care sector. Minister De Jonge also expressed his opposition to market forces in healthcare some time ago in interviews. Care had to be fundamentally redesigned. The every-for-one mentality had to be overboard, so that we still have enough hands on the bed in the future. Mr. Chairman. I have said it before, and I will say it again: these interviews were hopeful for my group. But with only three months left to go, we have to conclude from this last budget discussion with this minister that he has not translated these words into action. But the good news is, this minister has one last chance to prove himself. At the end of this year we hope to receive the contour note from the cabinet, and GroenLinks recently presented her own vision of the future of care. In this we make concrete and targeted proposals to abolish market forces in care, to make the system work for caregivers and patients, to eliminate production incentives and benefits in care, to work with fixed budgets for the ggz so that it no longer pays to avoid patients with complex mental problems and to put cooperation at the centre instead of giving competition by health insurers a public character. My question to the Minister is simple. Is he prepared to include these proposals in the outline note and thus to fulfil his promise to reduce market forces in care? I am happy to offer him, with pleasure, our vision of care!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u122	Now it's okay. Without a bow tie, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u123	It remains special to hear Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks talk mainly about market forces and systems, while I think it is about people. My question is about her comment about care cowboys. Because I totally agree with her, where there is excessive money being made when that is not necessary. But does Mrs Ellemeet agree with me that if you look at these health cowboys, then we are talking about the municipal domain, especially the municipalities themselves, which have set conditions and apparently not set good conditions, which makes it possible to earn more than necessary over the back of people who need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr Veldman is actually asking me two questions. Why are we talking about the system and not about people? I would first like to say that it was, among other things, the VVD that felt that there should be another system. You can have good reasons for that; you can differ on that. However, all parties see the system as part of the solution for good care. So I think it's kind of lame to pretend it doesn't have to do with people. People work in a system. And the people who work in this healthcare system now suffer from that. We want to offer a solution to that. That is my answer to the first question. The second question concerns the health cowboys and the profits that are made. I think we should indeed look at what we can do about it on all fronts, but it starts with the fact that we should not allow healthcare institutions to pay out profits. Paying out profits doesn't belong in health care. The concern for GroenLinks is a public domain. The money we use in this must be reinvested in care, for people. I think that's the core of my criticism. But when Mr Veldman says "let's also look at the municipal domain; for example, are there demands that are not good or unclear?', I find that a very interesting point. We should definitely take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u125	I think I just stood there for almost an hour. The questions I received were very much about the system: the system should be adapted. It is funny to experience that Mrs Ellemeet is now saying that I would like us to go to another system. That's right...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u126	No, you've wanted that before, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u127	I have just argued that I do not want another system, that the system we have had for 14 years in the base is a good system. There are just a few elements that we should improve. Let us return to those health cowboys and to the answer given by Mrs Ellemeet. It states that care money must remain in care and therefore no profit should be paid. Apart from what the definition of profit is, Mrs Ellemeet actually says that care money should remain in care. That sounds so beautiful. That sounds very attractive. But actually Mrs Ellemeet says to all the general practitioners and physiotherapists we have in the Netherlands, who are all just companies or practitioners: "You can't shop from the money you earn, because shopping disappears from care. You cannot buy a bicycle for your children, because then the money disappears from care." Isn't it a little cheap to put it that way? And isn't it really a matter of going back to those care cowboys that it's up to the client, in this case municipalities, to just make very tight and clear appointments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u128	It would be something if people who work in care and provide care could not buy a bicycle for their child anymore! It is, of course, incredibly faint to put it that way. What I am talking about is what I say, and you see that happening on a large scale, for example in home care, is that we do not want care to be paid to shareholders or directors, that big profits are made and that money, which is intended for care, goes away and disappears in the pockets of directors or shareholders. That's the point. We don't want that. That's not what that money's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u129	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u130	And again, I listen very carefully to what Mr Veldman says. If there are municipalities that make unclear demands, which makes money that is actually intended for care, let us look at it in particular. So that's what we're agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u131	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about making care future-proof. Then we will have to look at removing these incentives from market forces in healthcare, but also at how we can make care more sustainable. 7% of total CO emissions in the Netherlands come from the healthcare sector. Fortunately, there is a new generation of caregivers who want to deal with this. And we can, if we're willing to help them. Unfortunately, in this corona crisis, we see that the waste heap of masks, glasses and coats is inevitably getting bigger and bigger. It would be so nice and as good as we can see how we could use that material again in a responsible way. I ask the Minister how she sees this and how she would like to stimulate this development. For example, if we want more renewable energy to be built up, for example by filling the roofs of hospitals and nursing homes with solar panels, then there must also be a budget for that investment. How does the Minister see that? Is she willing to talk to health insurance companies about making sustainability requirements in purchasing? And is she willing, for example, to set up a revolving fund? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately there is already a green deal in the care, but this green deal is actually more of a letter of intent. To give more weight to it, I wonder if the Minister is prepared to make measurable agreements within the green deal so that we can better monitor progress. Mr. Chairman. With each budget, and therefore now too, I would like to draw attention to women and care, unfortunately, because it is the 21st century and we should not really talk about it anymore. But we still see that there is a lack of knowledge about gender and gender differences in health and care. ZonMw also concludes that. They have a wonderful Gender and Health research programme, but funding will be cut off, while many questions remain unanswered. I ask the Minister: isn't that a shame, and shouldn't we do something about it? There are also still differences in health and care costs between men and women. That's why GroenLinks wants to include contraception in the basic package, making menstrual material available free of charge for women with little money, as they have done in Scotland now. I'd like a response from the Minister. I can't wait to see how she looks at this. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, there are also taboos when it comes to women and care. I've been talking about women with postnatal depression in an earlier budget. That was never mentioned, and that's really fantastic picked up by this Secretary of State, with a campaign. But there is at least an equal taboo on the transition. You can't talk about women in transition and menopause at all. This can be a very intense and profound period for women, but it can also be very intense and profound for society and for our economy because one third of women aged between 45 and 60 have a direct relation to menopause. Can you see what that means to our labour market alone? Better care, including for women in menopause, starts with recognition and recognition of complaints, because that is also a problem for women. I very much hope that this Minister for Medical Care, who, in my opinion, also has a heart for the issue of women and care, will be able to address this issue. I'm very curious about her reaction. Finally, Mr President. Equality within care goes beyond equality between men and women. Equality is about everyone, with every gender, every gender and every sexual preference. The Ihbtiq+ people with disabilities are both disadvantaged in our society, not only because of their limitation but also because of their sexual preference or gender. For this group there is, among other things, the organisation Without Stamp, which organises meetings but also coaches people, and which stands up for the interests of this group. But this organization without Stamp is in danger of being lost, because the funding stops. The lhbtiq+ people with disabilities will again be on their own. In order to prevent the loss of Without Stamp, I propose an amendment to ensure that these people too can remain in the institutions. I would very much like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema, also on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Prevention is better than cure. We've heard that before. It's also a common proverb. It is even used in other areas where you actually want to work preventively, such as debt relief. And the last time I saw it, I saw it as a virus checker's commercial. You could buy and install a package, because: prevention is better than cure. The corona crisis reveals that many of us do not live well enough. And the way we deal with our planet, and especially with animals, means that this isn't the last pandemic we're going to experience. We are always talking about the system, but at such a next pandemic, not only should our health care system be more resilient, but all of us. Why should we invest in prevention? It costs us money right away, and in the short term, it doesn't pay off at all. But if we have a health care system based on disease rather than health, in which the market rules and profits have to be made, investment in prevention is not profitable. Fortunately, we can intervene in this as a government. That is what this cabinet has been trying to do with the Prevention Agreement. Only the resources available for this are currently running out. I can't really understand that. Now that we are in the middle of a corona pandemic and we see on a daily basis how important it is to live healthier, would it not make sense to invest in prevention instead of cutting back on it? That is why I tabled an amendment together with the Christian Union. With regard to prevention, I have another question. The program Now Not Pregnant is at odds. The funding almost stops and the municipalities do not have the resources to finance it themselves. At the same time, I hear a lot of enthusiasm about that programme. Can the Secretary of State state state whether he intends to continue that funding nationwide? And if he's not going to, why not? Mr. Chairman. Corona not only affects our health now, but also our health later. We don't know exactly how much care has been postponed or is going to be delayed. We also do not know the effects of the crisis on future care. What we do know is that a lot of research, including cancer research, has been stalled or delayed. This delay in itself is not the biggest problem, but the additional costs it entails. Promising research into new life-saving treatments may not be completed. We propose that the public authorities step up on this point, with some kind of bridging credit for medical research that has been financially affected by the corona crisis. I'd like a response to that point. Then there is the cabinet policy of the past few years. "The right care in the right place" has been an important starting point for this cabinet, and that is a starting point that we support in principle. After all, care close is often much better and more effective for those who need care. In addition, it is often cheaper. Better and cheaper: then you wonder why that invisible hand doesn't succeed. Physical therapy is an example of this. This can be an important and effective alternative to second-line treatment for many people in many conditions, but it will have to be compensated for. Of course, it has to be proven effective, but we can also send for that. My question is what the Minister is going to do to speed up the procedures for the reimbursement of paramedical treatment. What needs to be done to improve cooperation between physiotherapists and others? In addition to the right care in the right place in the right place, the programme Langer Home of Minister De Jonge has also been very much in attention in recent years. The term "longer home" has changed over the past three years from a wish of the cabinet to an order: whether you like it or not, you stay home longer. Because three years ago, 10,000 people were waiting for a place in the nursing home, and that number has doubled to 20,000 waiting now. I am pleased that the Minister wants to conclude a housing agreement, but we regret that he does not do so with the municipalities and the provinces, because that is where the work has to be done. I would like to ask the Minister how he is going to intervene if there is not enough building somewhere. For the elderly who stay at home, so there are a lot of people living in the neighbourhood. But we see in the budget that around EUR 60 million is spent less than budgeted. At the same time, we know that local care providers are also falling over. If it goes on like this, we won't be able to provide enough care. There aren't enough places in the nursing home, but if you stay home, there's not enough community care. It is even weirder that the money is left there, because we know that we are expecting more and more from community care. That's why it has to go from hospital care to the first line. Teams need to be set up and there needs to be more cooperation. I'd like a response to the under-utilization of community nursing. Then the ggz. Nowhere are the effects of market forces as mercilessly harsh as within the ggz. Market forces have gone so far that it pays to offer relatively short treatments, but not to help people with complex psychological problems. Patients will be given the predicate cost-effective or non-profitable there. As a result, profits are increasing in some of the treatment providers, while the most vulnerable patients are still on the waiting list. And those waiting lists haven't gotten shorter in recent years. In our view, the solution lies in reducing the market. What is the government going to do in the coming years to encourage cooperation over competition and to ensure less market and more direction? As long as market forces are not dealt with there, two other solutions now want to propose to the cabinet in the form of amendments. The first amendments are designed to provide structural funding for the preferential ggz. The waiting lists for complex care are the highest and, at the same time, the biggest financial problems. After all, the costs associated with knowledge, development, innovation and experimentation are not reimbursed in our system. Those aren't treatments you can check a dbc for. But it is essential that that preferred ggz is there. As a result, several departments have already experienced financial difficulties and this concern is under pressure. In order to do something about this, I suggest that we provide structural funding for these departments. We have 46 in the Netherlands. We are thinking of an amount of €250,000 per department. Then not only their pre-existence is guaranteed, but also the specialist care. Secondly, I believe that something must still be done about the waiting lists. Some of them are not largely caused, perhaps, but also, to a small extent, by a considerable shortage of ggz psychologists and clinical psychologists. In order to reduce or at least not exacerbate those waiting lists, additional training places are needed. The question is how the cabinet will do that in 2021. Mr. Chairman. The capacity problem in the ggz is also visible at the Expertise Centre Euthanasia. The waiting lists for people with mental illness considering euthanasia have been up to two years. They are so long, because psychiatrists often do not feel able to handle these requests from people with mental illness. So these people will be referred to that centre of expertise. But the purpose of that expertise center is not to deal with all those euthanasia requests. No, they want to support psychiatrists to deal adequately with such requests. These waiting lists are problematic. 90% of the euthanasia requests of people with mental problems are ultimately not met. The examination of such a request for euthanasia often does not lead to euthanasia, but to appropriate treatment. A waiting list of two years is far too long. People need immediate help. The centre of expertise has set up training and other activities, but this requires a budget. We have an amendment for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr Renkema expressed his concerns about the ggz. I share those concerns. I think we're both getting in touch with people who don't get the care they need. Now I'm talking about the specific target group of young girls with anorexia, for example. I'll meet them and talk to them. They say we don't want to die, but we don't get good care. They report to the Life End Clinic, to the Euthanasia Expertise Center, and they get euthanasia. Even though 10% of the 100 are reporting, that is 10% too much. I just don't understand why Mr Renkema and GroenLinks say: we're not going to focus on putting the people at work in the ggz, but we're going to strengthen the Expertise Centre Euthanasia to solve the question in the ggz. I think GroenLinks is pulling the wrong end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u136	It is clear that we are both concerned about people's problems. There are people who end up stuck, for example because a trauma is not treated and they finally say: if it has to, I prefer not to live anymore. Now we have that expertise center for that. In 2019 they were approached 3,000 times with a request for help. 900 of these questions have been answered. Then there were 700 euthanasia requests. 400 have been rejected. 200 people have withdrawn themselves. Eventually, the number of people with acute psychological distress reporting there and for whom that leads to euthanasia is very small. I'm talking about the fact that until they get an intake, people are on the waiting list there for two years. That is a very fragile situation. Then people might even opt for suicide, because they're on a waiting list to be helped there. Our amendment is not intended to make it easier to submit an euthanasia request there, but to ensure that psychiatrists who are confronted with this can be supported by the centre of expertise, with training and guidance. At the moment when this center is going to interfere with someone, it turns out that very often it is a breakthrough to a new perspective. I note that we share the concern. I also know about the sensitivity surrounding euthanasia in the Christian Union group, but I think this is precisely how you ensure that people are helped quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u137	In my opinion, the key issue I want to question here is not whether you are for or against euthanasia. As complicated as that might be, I'd like to park that. I am concerned that no adequate care is provided in the ggz. The question is, how are you gonna solve that? Are you going to solve that by strengthening an institution that works to end the lives of young people who don't get the right care? Or are you saying that we don't, and we're going to make sure that some scientific agency in the ggz thinks of what's gonna put the guidelines in order for the doctors in the ggz, so that those young girls get proper care? I just find it extremely strange that the organisation that is involved in ending a life because someone is not given proper care in the ggz by GroenLinks is supported with finances to apparently provide appropriate help. It just can't be both true. Why not push a lot more on the ggz to get the good care there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u138	I think it's and-and. I have drawn a great deal of attention to the waiting lists, including in this contribution. I know that people with complex problems in particular will not be helped. In the ggz it really has to be different. Let that be very clear. This centre of expertise could be a solution to people's problems in cooperation with the ggz. It is not that we say: the ggz is now moving a complex group but towards euthanasia. Let us be quite clear that this amendment aims to improve and intensify cooperation between the centre of expertise and the ggz so that deer becomes more part of the system, and thus also of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u139	I find it really very complicated to the Expertise Centre Euthanasia, the end of life clinic... then it becomes clear what we are talking about... becomes part of the solution. We talked to a young girl who had anorexia an hour before she was helped. She said to us, "I don't want to die, but I want to have good care." Let's talk about that. How are we going to improve the care of the people in the ggz? As long as there are still young girls in the early 20s who are coming to their end, when they don't want to, I think we should have a conversation about that and appeal to the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u140	I fully agree with you on that last point, but the waiting list has been there for two years. Something must be done there. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that there are people who are stuck in the problem and are not being helped. You can say we have to do anything, but the minute we can't, there's the Expertise Center. The figures show that it does not always lead to euthanasia. By the way, euthanasia is a worthy end to life, which is often not suicidal. It does not always lead to euthanasia, even more so, in most cases another solution is found. So let's use the Expertise Centre to find solutions for people with a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u141	I wanted to support Mr Renkema's plea, and I do so because I want to oppose Mrs Dik-Faber's suggestion as if Mr Renkema and others were trying to facilitate euthanasia as an alternative to treatment. I heard her literally say that. This does not do justice to the people who are struggling with this problem, nor does it do justice to the people who want to find a solution to it. I thought that was pretty intense. I hope that Mr Renkema and Mrs Dik-Faber will be able to find a solution. Those two contrasts are not what I heard Mr Renkema say, and it is certainly not what other parties who support the National Expertise Centre mean by that. I think it's really painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mrs Dik-Faber may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u143	I didn't mean to make this suggestion to other people. Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u144	Then that's cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u145	Thank you for that, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u146	I see Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u147	On the same point, because I was also surprised by the amendment, which states that €750,000 would be needed for training and support activities. Isn't it much more important to put extra money into a much faster care for people with very complex psychiatric problems? It is precisely when you say, as the explanatory statement to the amendment states, that the request is not granted at all in 90% of the cases, because there is a death wish arising from a disease, that it is much more important that you help that 90% in a better and other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u148	That's actually the same point. The moment the waiting list is two years old and people are not helped, they pose a great risk to themselves with all the suffering that can cause suicide for their environment. Last Monday in the Volkskrant was the story of Sven van der Woude. I think many MPs have read it, because he's also sending reports about his situation to us. He's someone who doesn't really want to live and be guided anymore. At the moment when people need acute care that is not there, we can tell each other that the ggz needs to get it in order. Yet it often doesn't work and people come on a waiting list. I would be sad if that would lead to the number of people who commit suicide in the Netherlands who are still very high, and I believe that SGP and Christian Union have also tabled an amendment on that point, while we have expertise on euthanasia at the Expertise Centre. I am not saying that: let us above all ensure that more people would go that way to have euthanasia committed there. That's in addition to what the PvdA just said. Let that be very clear. Finally, it appears that the involvement of the Expertise Centre reduces the number of questions and that alternatives are sometimes found. The idea of supporting the ggz in it and reaching out is the idea behind that €750,000 to prevent that waiting list from growing and leaving people to their fate, without proper care in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u149	As Mr Renkema himself points out, more than 90% of the aid questions apply that euthanasia is not the route in the end. If a person is told this in a shorter period of time, the risk of suicide is still not prevented. Then there is still no good help. My point remains: if you see this serious problem and if there are so many people with a death wish who are not actually adequately helped, should we not take one step back? Shouldn't we bet much more on that than just this narrow route of the Life End Clinic?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u150	That's not the point. It's not just that narrow route. It's en-and. We very much want the waiting lists in the ggz to be dealt with. I have also tabled an amendment on this. It's about training ggz psychologists. Much more needs to be done. We really need to get rid of the market forces in the ggz, so that the people who are seen as uneconomic in the care sector are quickly helped. In addition, it is necessary that people who would like to follow this route should not be on a long waiting list, but that the Expertise Centre should be able to switch quickly, in this case with the ggz. Now it looks like there are two opposite routes. We want to connect them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u151	Proceed, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr. Chairman. Then my final point as well. It's about the homeless and homeless. Here too, ten years of right-wing policy have left its mark. The number of homeless and homeless is still increasing to the grief of my group. Homeless people in the Netherlands often move to the big cities, but they do not always have the means to arrange shelter for all these people. I want to talk specifically about the winter shelter. I really hope the Secretary of State is willing to invest in more night care in the next few months. Let's make sure we don't have to sleep on the streets this winter. My question to the Secretary of State is what he will do in the short term. That was my last point right away. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u153	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Augustine taught us: both the times, the difficult times, and problems to overcome, is our people themselves. So don't complain about difficult times, but make the best of it. After all, the times are us." Mr. Chairman. This quote from the book Personal memories by Ruud Lubbers reminded me of the preparation of this debate. The invisible, but false COVID-19 virus, or corona, has turned our lives upside down. Dear ones are no longer allowed to hug you; entrepreneurs are desperate, because their business goes bankrupt; workers lose their jobs and lie awake to financial worries; young people are restricted in their freedom, and caregivers work their way around. In this place we would once again like to express our great appreciation for the loving care they give in this difficult time. To get back to the quote: are we going to change with the experience of corona, and are we going to continue to work together more, use digitisation and look after each other? Or do we fall back into our old behavior when we have a vaccine or medicines? Because people are masters at forgetting. This year, too, my contribution has been rebuilt around the three B's: care must be available, affordable and accessible. I would particularly like to draw attention to the maintenance of solidarity, which is a core value for the CDA. Mr. Chairman. In January 2019 I launched the CDA Action Plan to ensure that Europe and therefore the Netherlands become more self-sufficient in drug production. 75% of antibiotics come from China and India. I am pleased that my appeal has been met and that this issue has now been included on the European agenda. During last week's consultation on the EU Health Council, the Minister reaffirmed the importance of reducing our dependence on countries outside Europe on pharmaceutical production. The CDA therefore finds it astonishing that the Minister allows Sanquin Plasma Products to be held by non-European parties without conditions. This, while the Netherlands will have to make all plasma available for 10 years. I would like a reply from the Minister, because we are still waiting for the answers to the questions we asked in October. State Institution Intravacc still exists. Intravacc develops new and improved vaccines and alternative forms of administration. The government has rightly postponed the sale of this institute because of the corona crisis. But should the sale of Intravacc not be adjusted? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u155	I have a question for Mrs van den Berg from the CDA on the SP amendment. We have tabled this amendment in order to create a public pharmaceutical research fund to enable public research and to ensure that medicines become cheaper and remain affordable, also in the knowledge that the pharmaceutical industry makes a billion or more profit on the medicines it sells every year. Does the CDA want to support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u156	I think it is a very interesting amendment. Last year Mr Van Gerven and I tabled a motion together to see if such a fund could be developed. I know that Minister Bruins at the time said that he thought that was interesting and that he wanted to work on it himself. I understand that the Ministry itself is now working on it. I'd like to hear what's going on there. In my view, Mr Van Gerven had in particular a study carried out last year or two years ago. The study showed that less use of an oncology drug led to better results, which was not in the interests of the manufacturer alone. In fact, there is little room for such investigations. So I am very interested, but I would also like to know from the Minister what the Minister himself did with last year's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u157	That's good to hear. We will, of course, hear that from the Minister later. I know there's a research program called FAST, and I'm gonna leave the abbreviation for now. This is again the classic public-private partnership model, in which companies are involved. In the motion I tabled with Mrs Van den Berg, public research on the initiative of the academic world was strongly based. Does the CDA agree with the SP that the research fund, the pharmaceutical fund to be set up, is also specifically intended for academic scientific research, independently of the pharmaceutical industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u158	I can also imagine you doing one without leaving the other. Both can be important to do. I do not know if the Minister can merge that into the same fund, so I would like to await the Minister's response. But once again, we are very sympathetic to the idea. That is why we also tabled this motion last year with the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u159	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr. Chairman. Corona has stressed the importance of own production. But the definition of a vital sector now looks only at the number of victims, or at the economic damage. As far as the CDA is concerned, consideration should also be given to protecting values and preventing unwanted dependence. Nor do we want a foreign government or a foreign company to buy a hospital here. Is the Minister prepared to investigate where VWS can directly or indirectly be a launching customer and support long-term care development, such as at the Medical Technical Cluster Twente? Society has become increasingly complex. Having good communication skills is important. Social networks are smaller and social media have a lot of influence on our lives. People get in trouble because the world around them has become too complicated. Often there is too much focus on treatment instead of accompaniment. There must be less thought from disease and more from what people can. I'm allowed to be ambassador to ASVZ's disability institution. I see good examples of this approach in this institution. As far as I am concerned, this approach deserves a more rural roll-out. Can the Minister promote this? I am thinking here of the UN Convention on Disabled Persons. Tomorrow is the International Day of the Disabled, but the Netherlands has still not signed the optional protocol of that UN Convention. What is the state of play here? In the previous budget, I drew attention to the extra 100 places for people with severe constraints and multiple problems. We are now a further budget and I would like to hear what the current state of affairs is. How many places have been concretely realized for people with multiple disabilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u161	I was just talking about it in my contribution: this is exactly the pious face when it comes to disability care. But if there is a concrete motion, like yesterday, not for the first time, to abolish that mileage liability and registrations for disabled people in the upper regional transport sector, then it is: against. How can the CDA be against that all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u162	There's no way we can fix everything. Let's put that first. We have now asked for particular attention to be given to good places for people with multiple disabilities, and we have also asked for more attention to be paid to guidance rather than treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u163	That is not the beginning of an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u164	I believe that we also had this debate last year on transport possibilities. We cannot finance everything indefinitely. That's what we've agreed on. We want to keep to that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u165	Of course, it's very unfortunate. This is the pious face of the CDA, but when it becomes concrete, it is: no. A MP of the PVV tabled a motion to ensure that people with disabilities who use the upper regional transport no longer have to register every kilometre and, if they go over it, do not have to pay more than five times more than someone who has no restriction. I ask you again and again to take care of it. It costs at most a million, and that one million you're saving is because you don't need all those registration staff anymore. That's very concrete. This improves life for people with disabilities travelling above-regional. That doesn't really have to cost anything. You're gonna take the whole administration out for those people. Then it's no. It is voted against because of the one million, which is easy to abolish. Then it's: no, no, no, no, no. Then the administration must remain in place. Then the CDA's gonna have to keep people doing the registrations. Where's their privacy? Everything stays the way it was when it becomes concrete. If we can ask nice pious questions to the government, to the rulers, then the CDA is at the forefront of the disabled. But if there is a concrete proposal to abolish that mileage limit, to make disabled people pay the same for above-regional transport, not to violate privacy anymore, it is: no, no, no, no, no, no. Why does it always stay that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u166	I think that Mrs Agema raises two different issues here. On the one hand, there's the administration. We're always willing to see if there's any other way. I would therefore like to hear a response from the Minister. On the other hand, I have indicated that you cannot continue to finance everything indefinitely, as much as we would like as CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u167	How big is the budget we are discussing here today? It can't be that the CDA says, "We don't have a million." We're talking 75 billion today. I told you, you don't have to have all those registrations of all those miles checked by all kinds of control officers. That's probably gonna make it a lot more. But the CDA goes for that responsibility by disabled people, who are always in the administration. It is so easy to abolish it, so easy to not let these people pay five times more per kilometre if they want to use the upper regional transport. It's so easy. So easy. It is presented to you on a platter. Then it is: no, no, no, no, no, life for people with disabilities must remain more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u168	I think I'm repeating myself. We too would like to do much more for people with disabilities, including in order to make this kind of financial arrangements possible, but there are always limits to what you can eventually arrange.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u169	I agree with Mrs Agema, but that's not why I'm here. I just heard Mrs van den Berg from the CDA speak about the UN Convention on Handicap. Disabled organisations have previously indicated that we have signed it, but that it has not really led to an improvement. I heard Mrs van den Berg ask the Minister about the ratification of the so-called protocol that gives people the right to go to Geneva if they feel that their rights are being violated. I have now tabled a motion for a resolution in the debate we had on the Treaty. That motion demands exactly that of the cabinet. The CDA voted against it at that time. Can I now conclude from Mrs van den Berg's question to the Minister that if I repeat that motion if I am prepared to do so again, and perhaps Mrs van den Berg would like to sign with me, then I can count on a yes vote from the CDA? Then we have a majority here in the Chamber, and people with disabilities are very happy about that, because they have been calling for it for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u170	I'm going to dive in there, because I don't have this motion on my retina. I think it's been treated at a different part than I did. I'm gonna go check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u171	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. We have just talked about the problems in the ggz. I would also like to briefly mention this, also in view of my introduction to the complexity of society. The extramural guidance and interference for people with confused behavior is not in order. I would like to emphasise once again how important this is for the group itself, for the family and for the policemen who have to fill the gaps. They can't say no. Now there has been a serious incident in Rotterdam. An American student was murdered by a man who was known to the Rotterdam hotline confused persons and to the district team. The municipality has made several attempts to have independent parties investigate the incident, with the aim of learning. However, inspections and supervision Social Domain stopped the boat, because they can only do research when the victim has a care relationship with the municipality. That can't be true, can it? Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with a proposal to enable such terrible incidents to be investigated in future? Mr. Chairman. Healthcare insurers have recently announced their healthcare policies. The number of supplementary insurances with adequate remuneration for physiotherapy is getting smaller and the packages are getting more expensive. As a result, physiotherapy is increasingly inaccessible to those who need it and are not included in the breast list, such as cancer patients, rheumatic patients and heart patients. As far as rheumatism is concerned, there is still a route for conditional admission. However, there is still an approved motion from my hand to investigate physiotherapy for chronically ill and to place it in the basic package. We must ask ourselves not only what it will cost but also what it will get us, because it will avoid other costs of care. So let's just proceed with the motion. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The b of affordability. In order to maintain solidarity, care must also remain affordable. People wonder if they can afford it if they need care later. Every year we see rising premiums and now we see our own risk of €385. Health expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product almost doubled in 20 years. The calculation premium plus own risk increased from €1.030 in 2006 to €1.758 in 2020. Wage increases are sometimes offset even more than by the increase in healthcare costs. That is an untenable path and it must be tilted. It is fantastic that we are allowed to grow older, but the ageing population also increases the need for care. It is also good that there are more and more treatment options, but there are reasons why we can do something about it and what we need to do about it. The CDA will therefore shortly present an own-initiative paper with proposals to keep care affordable, so that we can also maintain solidarity. I have just one point to make. The effectiveness of 50% of care has not been proven. In fact, from 10% to 15% of the care has been proven not to be effective. In 2016, academic hospitals drew up a "better not to do' list. I think Mrs Ploumen has already mentioned this. Recently, the implementation agenda of care evaluation and appropriate use came up with do's-and-don'ts. It's good that insurers are going to take this with them in the care purchase. As far as the CDA is concerned, we need to stop paying for proven non-effective care. On Monday, the Action Plan for the maintenance of the Dutch healthcare system appeared. Board Chairs Marian Kaljouw and Sjaak Wijma, of the Healthcare Authority and the Healthcare Institute, argue that there will be less commitment and that it is time for cooperation on the basis of hard agreements. The CDA supports this, but would also like to see an initial response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u173	Mrs Van den Berg talked about getting a grip on growth and mentioned the example of one's own risk. We have formulated the vision that we want four tranches of €100 per treatment instead of what people sometimes pay, namely €385 at once, giving you a care avoidance and then calculating behavior. What is the view of the CDA when it comes to its own risk in the future? I thought it was in line with what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u174	I think Mrs Bergkamp has a point there. We have been included in the draft electoral programme. December 12th is our congress, so there can always be amendments that we want to keep our own risk at €385, that it does not increase any further and that people do not lose that whole risk at once when they have something, for example when they have a hospital visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u175	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mr. Chairman. Research carried out by Berenschot, among others, shows that almost 40% of working time is spent on administration, partly because of the poor working ICT. Mr. Veldman was talking about that, too. But it is also because there is unstructured and ambiguous work. During a work visit to the hospital pharmacists at the UMC in Utrecht it appeared that pharmacist assistants of each patient should check exactly what the drug use is, because files of the pharmacist are not completely reliable. As far as the CDA is concerned, there needs to be more political direction and direction by the government on frameworks for ICT in healthcare. VNO-NCW rightly states that digitalisation in healthcare is going slowly. Using ICT, working differently, e-health and innovation, care can be organised much more effectively, for example through increased use of apps. But those apps have to be reliable. The National eHealth Living Lab of the Leiden University Medical Center is responsible for this. Thuisarts.nl of the general practitioners, but also OZOverbingenzorg from Overijssel are nice examples of using an app. Healthcare providers can quickly exchange information with each other and the patient can read along. That is why we want to ensure, through an amendment this year too, that such initiatives are supported. I would like a response from the Minister to the amendment. Mr. Chairman. There's too much medicalization. Corona has shown that care is not only medical healing, but also looking after each other. The Trimbos Institute wrote in May: "In principle, half of the cases in the Netherlands are avoidable. A significant part (...) is directly related to living conditions and lifestyle." For example, many diabetic 2-patients no longer need medication after they adjusted their eating habits and lifestyle. We need to avoid the cost of care more through prevention. Prevention is better than cure; that was mentioned earlier today. Corona has shown the importance again. Healthy living and preventing obesity do not make you immune to corona, but make sure you have more resistance to the virus. Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the Netherlands with 52%. I thought that was a bit of a shock. A few months ago, you could take a test of your face here at the Square to see if you had any spots in your face. I was glad there wasn't anything going on, but it was confrontational. The main cause of UV radiation is the sun. In Germany we see examples of how contact with self-help groups of patients prevents admissions. That is why we have recently tabled a motion with others on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u177	We received a letter last week from the U.S. Secretary of State on breast cancer screening. He wants to take it because of corona once every two years to once every three years. I'm very worried about that, because 15,000 women a year get breast cancer and about 3,000 die from it. Of course, it's of the utmost importance that you track it down in time. I would like to ask whether the CDA agrees with me that this is unacceptable and that we should table a motion if the Secretary of State does not promise to reverse this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u178	I would like to hear a further explanation from the Secretary of State. I also understood that it was not only about corona, but also about the availability of people who could do the tests. Then it's fair that you don't give a certain group of people more chances than another, but that you try to spread it as evenly as possible. But I would like to hear a further explanation from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u179	I hope that, if this reading is correct, you will find it unacceptable. You also think that we should not accept that care and the level of care, especially when it comes to cancer care, should be adjusted downwards because we are not able to organise sufficient staff here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr Wilders' motion has been co-tabled by Mr Heerma, precisely to ensure that we get reservists in the care and therefore always have a plan B. But if there are not enough people who can do this at the moment, you will have to take measures at the moment. But once again, I would like to hear a further explanation from the Secretary of State. We see, of course, as sad as it is, in other areas too, that we now need to scale down some of the concerns. Mr. Chairman. We were talking about self-help groups. I think Mrs. Diertens was leading in that. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this. Against this background, we do wonder where the proposal to ban nitrous oxide remains. On Monday, my colleagues Anne Kuik and Maurits von Martels tabled a motion on cross-compliance for regional prevention funds. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? Mr. Chairman. Then my last b, the b of "reachable." My initiative paper Healthcare in the region/Together you come further, has borne fruit. Regulations are adapted and chain partners, residents and regional directors need to be consulted when changing into acute care. In recent weeks I have had to ask questions about the lack of consultation at the Ommelander Hospital in Scheemda, where answers were received today from the general practitioners' post in Venray and Dienstapotheek Eemland in Amersfoort. Now the Minister answers in response to the questions about Amersfoort that as service pharmacists provide pharmaceutical care, they do not fall within the scope of this part of the general measure, i.e. of the regulation. Surely it can't be true that in such a case a health insurance company can make decisions without consultation? That is why I shall be tabling a motion in the second term with the request to amend it. Mr. Chairman. It is nice to see that healthcare providers are now working together in several places. I refer to the Zorg Coalition in Zeeland, the care tables in Drenthe and Flevoland, the citizens' initiative Zorg Like the Westfries het Wil and the LEVANTO group in South Limburg. All focus on cooperation between different domains. This is much needed to keep the care available, affordable and accessible. That is why I have tabled an amendment to promote these cooperations, as was the case last year, and to join these local initiatives. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to the amendment. Mr. Chairman. Not only acute care, also primary care for general practitioners, is under pressure, due to an ageing population, but also because in some regions 25% of general practitioners retire in the coming years. Not only is it difficult to find general practitioners in the region, it is also difficult to find practitioners. That turned out to be during my summer work visit to a large general practitioner's office in Breda. Practice holders have to do administration, ensure the staffing of the roster and have a lot of additional management tasks. The CDA wants more training places and is therefore co-author of a D66 motion. In addition, however, we also want task restructuring by the use of physician assistants and nursing specialists and adequate funding if they are trained in a general practitioner's practice. I would like a response from the Minister to these proposals. The CDA wants to strengthen the general practitioners' support for practitioners. Is the Minister prepared to examine how the programme of regional GPs can be further developed? Mr. Chairman. Finally. As co-rapporteur, I noted that the VWS budget could take another step to increase transparency and comply with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. The General Court also concludes that. We hope that this will be taken up further in the next budget and voted hopefully by the Minister's letter of 18 November. Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget of rulers in this coalition. That's why I brought Zilte Zeeland's buttons Drop. I'll give it to them through the messenger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u181	Everyone needs dinner break, actually. I don't know if it's wise to eat candy now, I always tell my kids. Anyway, for later. Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. We'll wait until the chair is cleaned. I give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Raising is more than feeding and caring is more than providing the primary necessities. Raising and caring are deeply related. For a reason, the Flemish ethicist Linus Vanlaere compares care with chess. Not in the sense of pieces that need to be moved, not in the sense of opponents and opponents, and certainly not in the sense of profit and loss, but as a subtle interplay between people. Care is essentially about this relationship. The rest should be subordinate to this relationship or at least central to the relationship. Mr. Chairman. A healthy relationship is equivalent and in a care relationship that is not self-evident. Someone who is dependent on care, in a way, is also dependent on the caregiver. A small child soon shows that it is not of any use and wants to do it itself. That is true, despite disability, illness or condition, in fact, for everyone. For the CDA care is about the relationship and a healthy relationship is also about self-determination, of the caregiver and of the caregiver. In this light, my contribution. It focuses mainly on four issues: living, well-being, meaning and community spirit. Finally, I have a few loose questions. Mr. Chairman. Besides eating and drinking, a human needs a roof over his head. Understandably, people want to live independently for as long as possible and when this is no longer possible, as a community we have to provide living space in combination with care. That is where it has been said many times today. The picture is correct, I hope that the Minister will deny it in this way, but I do not think that there is a great lack of housing combined with care and that there will certainly be a large shortage of nursing homes in the medium and long term. Why do I keep sighing? Isn't much more being done to get municipalities to build more? Why not make sure at a furious pace that at least part of the problem we see coming is solved by building more nursing homes? Is my conclusion that this problem if we continue at this rate on the road we are walking is just running wildly out of control and the VVD has said this and the PVV has said this and I repeat it also because we will not get any more staff besides living space? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that citizens' initiatives in the areas of housing, well-being and care, on technology and on organisational innovation, not only out of desire but simply out of pure necessity, will need to be fully deployed? And, if so, what is the Minister going to do about it? Not that long ago, I was on a job visit in a so-called courthouse. An old concept, but extremely modern in this form. People live there cheaply and help themselves and each other. The residents themselves are also volunteers. I can't walk well, said a man to me, but I can still see and I read the paper for this every morning. Of course, there's professional support, but not as a standard. Not as an individual right per se, but as a complement to the needs of the community. Does the Minister see this old-fashioned but modern form of concern as a direction we could go in and, if so, how does he anticipate this movement? Mr. Chairman. One more thing. Parents who can do that help kids when they turn out the wings. That's how I got a little help. There are opportunities for that. But the other way around, it could be. Wouldn't it be interesting to investigate what measures might be possible to encourage children to support their parents in purchasing an apartment, for example? Is the Minister willing to put that in the picture? Even if we see each other more, if we consider people as an essential part of the community and if we give the space to professionals and citizens' initiatives, it will not be enough. We will also have to make use of innovations, of technology. Not as a cold replacement of human hands, not in the way that the conveyor belt has relieved the worker, but at the same time has freed the soul from his labor, but in support of the essential of helping. Healthcare professionals will have to be involved in the development and implementation of innovations, as will the clients and the circle around them. What would they need? How do we engage them sincerely? What do they find quality and how do they show that quality? Mr. Chairman. If care is actually related, then man is certainly more than his diagnosis or his indication. However, indications in our system are often necessary. But as far as I am concerned and as far as the CDA is concerned, they are often a necessary evil that we should suffer as little as possible. A new indication is requested each year under the Health Insurance Act and in particular in the area of care and intensive child care. Why? Unfortunately, such children often do not heal. Then why don't we stop? This is not really a thesis or a question. Well, actually, it's a question. Why not? Mr. Chairman. Care is relational. A health care provider knows his client. When you have to make a new request for care, you always ask municipalities, the UWV, the Health Insurance Act and so on again for all information. Why aren't they just asking what's changed? Saves a lot of time and frustration. This too is not a statement, but a sincere question. Why don't we just do that? When it comes to keeping a grip on reality, should we not ask the caregivers and clients how they think they can demonstrate that they are asking for and delivering quality at a good price? It's not easy to indict, but it's not easy. That's quite a job. How does the Minister see that? Mr. Chairman. We have had a round table meeting as the House of Representatives on child care. We've talked about it twice before. I was freaked out at the time. There was clearly a breach of trust between all parties. And that while it's about a relatively small group of parents with children. Speaking of relational care, what is the Minister going to do to restore this breach of trust, which I believe is still there, between nursing, parents, medical care and health insurers, or if necessary to take matters into their own hands, in the interests of these parents and their children? I read on Twitter that there has been a new version of the hand-out, but the complaints have not been reduced, I can tell you. And now, so I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Another form of care that is perfectly relational is the general practitioner's care. The general practitioner knows his or her patients from oats to grits and almost from the cradle to the grave. However, in a number of cases it is still very complicated, if not impossible, to take a general practitioner. According to Radar's television programme, doctors don't want a mother taken in as a patient. Clients with a Wlz indication who go back to living outside an institution often have the same problem. Does the Minister recognize this? This problem is not new, but it is very persistent. How is the Minister going to make sure that general care is available to everyone or is there not? With regard to medical generalist care, there is little sign of progress in the care of the elderly at national level. In some regions things seem to be improving, but there is little progress and that is a pity. The CDA Group deeply regrets this. Last year, my colleague Mr Slootweg also drew attention to this in the budget treatment of VWS. We've recently seen on TV where it could lead. An older woman who has been taken into her home by her daughter cannot receive general care and therefore no prescription for medicines. That's impossible, isn't it? We really need to get rid of that. We have seen how good parties, under the direction of the VGN, have come to practical and effective agreements for medical and generalist care in disability care. To this end, a compliment is due to the parties who have taken their responsibility. A good example will do well, I would say. In this context, I would also refer to the NZa report of July this year, which also calls for similar agreements to be reached on medical and generalistic care in the care of the elderly. In December 2019, the House of Representatives received a letter saying that ActiZ would take control of these agreements, but we note that there is now simply an impasse. We ask the Minister for action, because in the short term care for everyone must be available at all times. Finally, Mr President. We said it more often today: care is primarily about a relationship. A human being is not helped when food, drinking and a roof over his head is provided, and so it is. A man is not an individual as far as I am concerned, but a person in relation to another. That's true when you don't believe in it. Let's act in that spirit. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u183	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I suggest we suspend until 7:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u184	We will continue with the first term from the side of the Chamber. We are dealing with the budget of VWS. I would like to give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is obvious to start today with the actual situation, namely that the number of infections is still high today. We're at about 5,000 again. That number has been around the same for days, weeks, and it is stabilizing. That is a serious problem in our view, because the whole strategy that should be intended to contain the virus does not seem to succeed. This is a problem for those who become ill, who die of the virus, but also a major problem for our hospitals, which keeps a substantial number of people in the hospital and on ice. We can't afford that. I would like to ask the cabinet what the plans are for the coming time to reduce the number of infections further; what is the strategy now? I would also like to know how the cabinet views the statements made by RIVM people. It is, for example, about the statement that due to this level of contamination, the current measures may last until March next year. I was shocked that this was said by people from the RIVM, because I assume that this kind of statement is made from the cabinet. I assume we'll hear it from the Cabinet when there's a view of improvement, but also that we'll hear it from the Cabinet as that half lockdown that we're having right now and that's going to take a lot of people a lot longer than we thought. We should not hear that from the newspaper of the RIVM. Mr. Chairman. Last week in the debate on the duty to speak, I tabled two motions, both of which were adopted. I would like to know from the Minister what is going on with the implementation of these motions. One is about when the duty to cover the mouth gets a place on the road map, so that we also know that this duty ends at some point. It shouldn't be a prayer without an end. I'd like to get a reaction to that. The other motion deals with how people who cannot wear a mask are dealt with, the exceptions. We are getting reports from people who are already running into them, who are in trouble in the store and who are being called upon and who are not actually able to prove that they are entitled to that exemption. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Of course we should also talk about vaccines. The Minister said that we should be able to vaccinate by 4 January. I am very concerned about the way that is going. Because the minister's tweet has not cooled down yet or we are getting the first reactions from the GGD and from general practitioners who say: what plan? What strategy? General practitioners say that we do not see any role for ourselves. The GGD says, "We haven't actually been asked yet." It is becoming a pattern with this minister that he swings things into the world via Twitter, through press releases, and then we hear from the people who really have to do the work that nothing has actually been arranged yet. I do not think that is possible and I also think that if the Minister makes such a statement, it is quite certain; by saying 'early January' you create great expectations, and there is also a plan and support, especially from those organisations that have to implement it. Finally, in the context of the acute crisis, protection equipment. I still get reports from nursing homes that people working in a department with covid-infected people still have to work with mouth caps, with surgical masks, instead of with the FFP2 masks that are actually needed for that. I would like to ask the Minister: why is it still not possible for nursing homes and disability care to be provided with appropriate protective equipment for someone infected with covid? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the budget, and as far as I am concerned, it is also a matter of which lessons this cabinet is learning from this crisis. Because if we have seen something, it is that our healthcare system as it is now is in place. We have already had a whole debate on this with Mr Veldman. "We had to improvise the whole crisis," the Minister said in the newspaper itself last weekend. We saw that. In the hospitals, we ran into our borders very quickly. We have a system of hospital care that has been nippled for years, where in terms of efficiency no empty bed should be available for years. That is what we see now: in an acute crisis, it is immediately full and needs to be scaled down acute or necessary care. That is an embarrassment; that should not happen. We've seen it with the GGD's, that year in, year out have been cut down, also in recent years, also by the previous cabinet. We've seen that they can't withstand the tasks they were facing, the source and contact research and testing. I would like to say to the Minister that we need to learn from that now. I just talked about the nursing homes. What lessons are being taught there? What lessons are learned from the fact that in that first wave so many people have become ill in the nursing homes or died there, perhaps unnecessary afterwards, if this cabinet had done the right thing at the right time when it comes to testing and the use of appropriate protective equipment? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As far as we're concerned, the corona virus is a magnifying glass. It puts a magnifying glass above our society, a society where, if you look closely at it, the concrete rot becomes visible in too many places, right now, in this crisis. Because where does this virus hit the hardest? Precisely in those neighbourhoods, in those neighbourhoods, where people are already struggling, where there is already a lot of chronically ill people, where there is already a lot of people who have to live and live in bad conditions. That is where this crisis hits the hardest. We have seen it with the people who work in the abattoirs, in the distribution centers, in the care and on the trains. They have taken the blows of the crisis. We should be more aware of that and have a little more respect for it. A lot of people have worked at home, but they have been able to maintain that work at home and can do it because another group of people has picked up the work on site, with every day the risk of getting infected. Mr. Chairman. A note on corona measures and their impact on society and the economy circulates in the Cabinet. We're still not getting to see that note. This was also discussed in the previous Corona debate. That's a note from Wiebes, Koolmies and Hoekstra. These three ministers have written that new corona measures could be disastrous, particularly for lower incomes. But what does that say about the deeper problems in our society? I would ask this Minister to do the same. If, as a society, we are apparently unable to take measures to protect the most vulnerable people and to take additional measures at a time of crisis, then something is fundamentally wrong. I would like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Does this cabinet teach its lessons? We are seriously wondering. Shortly before the summer, a plan came out called a "coal sketch" which included a large number of emergency rooms and even entire hospitals could be closed down. That was sent to the Chamber by a temporary PvdA minister. We, as SP, cannot support the fact that a cabinet at this time, a time when so many people are calling on care, sends a plan to the Chamber in which it actually says: delete those emergency services and take that hospital care away from people. Isn't it impossible for that to be sent to the Chamber at such a time? What is the answer of this cabinet to the people in the Achterhoek who fear that the hospital in Winterswijk will leave, and to the people in Gorinchem who were here this afternoon at the Square giving a petition and are simply afraid that their care will be taken away from them? Everyone knows: as soon as the emergency services leave the hospital, that is often the beginning of the end. Then the ic-care and the emergency obstetrics disappear and such a hospital is dead. My question is why? And is the Cabinet prepared to withdraw these plans? Mr. Chairman. We really need to go to another healthcare system. That is the most important lesson we can learn from this crisis, I think. For the SP that has been established for a long time, but it is now proven that we can't go on like this. Minister De Jonge has several times called it a kind of annual tradition in the newspaper: this market operation, we have to get rid of it. But now we're three years ahead and we've had this minister for three years, and I just don't see them, the proposals to get the market out of care. Where are these proposals? You can't yell in the paper every year and then you can't deliver. Care doesn't lend itself to commerce. I had to think about that when I saw Philips' boss, Mr. Van Houten, on television last Monday. He said, and I was surprised that we could have prevented a lockdown if we had had more hospital beds. Well, I get that Philips' boss says that, because the more people get sick, the better it is for Philips' sales. But how does the cabinet react to these kind of statements? And what does the government think of Philips' boss saying, "We need to invest more in care and education," when his company hasn't paid a cent of profit tax for years? He admitted that, too. Surely it is not possible for the biggest companies in our country to ask us to pump more money into health care, but they themselves do not want to contribute to that? That's impossible for the SP. Mr. Chairman. Care doesn't lend itself to profit. I also fully endorse what Mr Renkema said about the ggz. We really need to get out of that as soon as possible. More and more parties in this Chamber are saying that we need to move towards less market forces. I believe that only the VVD really still fully believes in it. But are we really going to get another concern after the election? I wonder. I'm really wondering. We've seen that we don't get there with good words. But why does such a large part of this Chamber now want to stick to a care system with a policy jungle in which at the end of the year we all have to choose from numerous different policies, one with infinite freedom of choice and another in which the insurer decides what care you get? Why are we still doing this? Can the Minister explain that? Why are we still doing this? Why do we still have this system? The vast majority of people don't want to change at all. Those people just want good care and don't wait for those commercials every year: come to us, then you get €5 discount! What's the point? There's so much money going on, there's so much unnecessary competition going on against caregivers, who have to compete for their patients: come to me, come to me! Like that doesn't have a price uplifting effect. As if that doesn't encourage you to give more care than is actually necessary. Mr. Chairman. We must go to a National Health Fund, which the SP has of course been advocating for a long time. Fortunately, I also see it in other parties' electoral programmes. I hope that if the right side of this House wins the elections, we will be able to achieve this. That is indeed the left, Mrs Ploumen. You got that right! And left starts on the other side of D66. Mr. Chairman. We've been talking about the appreciation of caregivers for months. And just to get rid of the idea that that's something new: that's nothing new. A year ago, we had a historic hospital strike. That's when the hospital staff stopped. So let us not pretend that structural undervalue of caregivers is something of the past few months. This has been going on for many years. If we want to reduce the huge deficits that are emerging in the care sector, then we really need to make a more structural assessment. And I see the promises of the Christian Union coming out of D66 all over again: no, after the elections, we're really gonna do it; then we're really gonna give more money to our caregivers! Why now deliver these empty promises and why not now, when the caregivers and the rest of the Dutch have been asking for them for so long? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we also have to talk about the health bonus, which has really become a headache file for this cabinet. It is an in itself sympathetic idea of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, which has become a complete debacle when you see how this cabinet has dealt with it. Because we would give that bonus to all employees in the care; that was not the intention, of course. Then what happened? Employers should bring in people who should get that bonus. It's become a mess. It's gotten really messy. It is the organisation of competition against employees: one profession against the other profession and flex workers against people with permanent contracts. Why? Now we have seen that the EUR 1.4 billion that stood before us was far too little. There is now an additional 800 million available, and that actually shows what a capital error this cabinet has made in this respect. Wouldn't it have been much better if the cabinet had said right from the start: we're just giving that bonus this year and next year to everyone who works in the care sector, point? It would have cost more money. So what? People have worked hard for it. We want those caregivers to get that appreciation, don't we? If we had just done it that way, we could have saved ourselves a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of trouble. We have an amendment in place on this point to deal with this year. We will have to change the amounts, because we did not know about the 800 million when this amendment was tabled. I would also like to hear from the Minister how much money it should be. I think she was surprised by the 800 million. I wonder what we need to do to get it right for everyone. I'm just curious how things are. Mr. Chairman. Care needs to be more honest. The care can also be much more honest. We've been objecting to our own risk in health care for years. The most vulnerable people now pay the bill of care. As far as we're concerned, that fine on being sick must be removed as soon as possible. There, too, I see improvement. There's improvement there, too. Even the VVD now says that we need to freeze our own risk; that should not go up any further. That was different four years ago. So there's some improvement. But I would like to ask the Minister what is still the need to hold on to that own risk, considering that we can also pay the costs in a fair way. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to close with the care neighborhoods, the care of the elderly. For years we have been asking this minister to do more to give the elderly a good place in their own neighbourhood. But that doesn't come from the ground. That's a great frustration for my party, the SP. Mrs Agema also said earlier: closing the nursing homes was a capital mistake. The speed with which that happened, the Rücksichtslosigkeit, the flat austerity that was the closure of the nursing homes: all that was stupid, stupid, stupid. A very large part of this House has been responsible for this. I wish we hadn't! But it's time now. And the SP says: now go build those care neighborhoods and make sure that the people who want to grow old in their own neighborhood and who may not yet need so much care but want to live together, get a nice place. We've made that proposal before. The Minister was excited about that, but why isn't it coming off the ground? Why don't we go round the table with municipalities and corporations and make sure, under the direction of this minister, that it does. The deficits are enormous. We're running into huge shortages when it comes to nursing care. I'd say, why don't you get to work on a plan like that and get it done? Now I close, Mr President, even though I have a great deal to say. But I must now give the floor to my colleague Henk van Gerven, because it is also the last time for my colleague Henk van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u186	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u187	He's retiring. 65 stays 65 we say for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u188	Retiring? You shouldn't have said that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u189	It's bad enough, Mr. Chairman, that he doesn't stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u190	He looks so young.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u191	He could have been with us for years, but 65 is 65. We just don't have to go out there and bargain with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u192	Okay, that's gonna be politics, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u193	So I would like to give the floor to my support and support: Henk van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u194	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I call Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u195	Just a sip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u196	The five minutes are up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u197	That's how we know each other, Mr. Chairman. It's always a special relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u198	That's right. Wait a minute, Mr Van der Staaij has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u199	I do have a serious point, to be honest. 65 stays 65. But now I understand that Mr Van Gerven has already turned 65 in March, so is there just another six months in the approach to the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u200	It's a border case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u201	But I was also elected to the Chamber, so I want to stick to that. I want to finish the period anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u202	You planned it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u203	The chairman will also appreciate it when MPs finish their term. It's choosing in politics. Mr. Chairman. I'll start. For decades, as long as I'm in politics, doomthinkers and economists have been telling us that care is going to be priceless if they don't intervene. We now have chairman Wijma of the Dutch Health Institute, a textbook example. He raises the fear that if we don't intervene, in 2040 half of our taxpayers' money will go to care costs. This is a permanent lie that we are told, coupled with the dominant neoliberal vision whereby the market must regulate care through competition, whereby the government resigns and the people have to figure it out more and more themselves. This leads to marathon care, where both the care staff and the patients pay a very expensive bill. How do we get out of here if that neoliberal drug doesn't work? Then you just have to try another medicine, the doctor says. The corona crisis also makes this crystal clear. Together with my colleague, Mr Hijink, I make proposals, based on a number of points. You'll notice some repetition, but that won't seem strange to you. First of all, care is not priceless. Will you stop that? What we want to spend on care is just a political choice. Is 10% of our gross national product much, too much, or 11%, or 12%? It's all possible. However, a problem is that the money is not spent on care, but is locked away from care. People have problems with that, because the money for care has to go to care. Profit benefits in and through health care institutions should simply be totally banned. Then we will also be rid of the issue of nonsensical care, because the idea of profit, which is part of the distribution of profits, is at the root of this nonsense of concern. The government has to take control back into the care system. We need to get rid of competition and cooperation. The locals must regain control of their hospital. That means stopping the closure of hospitals, hospital departments, emergency care departments and acute obstetrics. My colleague, Mr Hijink, has already mentioned the result from Gorinchem, which was delivered to us today: 21,000 signatures, collected within a few weeks, of people who are concerned about their hospital and who want to keep the hospital. When we stand before it, the VVD calls it 'hobbyism' in its election programme. It's crazy. We have to do what the people need and what they want. Everyone must also be given the care he or she needs, without distinction of person. That solidarity must be anchored. Necessary care is just part of the package. We can do so by taxing the premiums.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We also really need to work on reducing the differences between rich and poor. That has everything to do with prevention, which I would like to continue with. Everyone is in favour of prevention, but in practice there is simply far too little to reduce the health gap between rich and poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u204	I would like to go back to the costs that Mr Van Gerven is charging. He said, "How much can you spend; is 10% or 11% a lot?" Very carefully he said 12%, but we are already at 13% of gross domestic product. Well, that all sounds very abstract. The question to Mr Van Gerven is then: does he have any idea how much we spend on healthcare per person?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u205	First of all, a correction. The healthcare expenditure is not 13%. These are 10% of gross national product. If we add our own risk, our own payment, it's even less. So stop saying that it is 13%, because it includes childcare, well-being and even more. So it's 10% or less. And look at the OECD figures, where that is correct. Then you just see that spending in the Netherlands is average. I thought the cost was around $6,000 per person, but so what: if we need it, we will, won't we? Care is not a cost. Care is an investment, is well-being, is economics. So stop it! In the 1960s, they said that care is becoming priceless, our CDA predecessors of that time. So that remark is of all times. It's just... it's okay. A problem, however, is that the VVD must do something about it. The profit distributions, the money that is unjustly drawn out of care and the 1 billion that the pharmaceutical industry is picking out of our drive. Let's do something about that. That would adorn the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u206	The €6,000 is right. That's an average. This means that someone who earns above modal has already lost more than that €6,000 per year to care. And of course it is a political choice, but I am always curious to see where the Socialist Party's money boom stands. That money tree where we can pick out all that other money for things that we might all want, for example reducing the classes in education. If we want to go back to 21 students, it'll cost a billion a year. Where's the money tree? Of course it's a political choice. You can spend an infinite amount of money on care if you want. In my opinion, it is smarter and wiser to spend money that we collect from people through taxes, care premiums and through employers in a sensible way, in a way that we both provide good care and try to control the costs somewhat. The costs will rise yes, but in the SP's plans they rise to the sky.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u207	First of all, it's what people need to care about. That is the point of departure. Then the question is: how are we going to pay it in a fair way? That's not the VVD's way of giving another 4 billion to business to invest, which is nonsense. The VVD refuses to distribute the health benefits fairly by making them dependent on income or taxing them. If we split it fairly, anyone can make it. And let us be honest: if we follow the policy of the VVD, the highest incomes, the strongest shoulders, will be spared. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u208	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u209	I had gone to prevention and where to go. The SP has made an analysis of the developments of the GGDs over the past decades. What is striking is the chronic neglect of the GD, while it plays such an important role in preventing diseases and promoting health. The cabinet lacks a long-term vision, as we know it, for example, from the Delta Act, which deals with our drinking water supply and water safety behind our dikes. We have arranged this for a long time with a large financial budget and clear policy where we want to go. We also think that the corona crisis shows that it is now time to invest in the GGD and put the capacity of the GGD in order. This is not only about infectious diseases and medical environmental science, but also about health promotion. The national government has to take the lead to agree concrete goals, such as reducing socio-economic health inequalities. There must also be a basic national prevention package, which is the same for all municipalities and which must be implemented and offered by the municipalities. The funding of this plan must be regulated nationwide and the direction must be with the Empire. Our proposal is to do so through a prevention fund. The funding of the GGDs must therefore be made through a national prevention fund. The money then goes to municipalities and remains earmarked. It must be long-term, so that the GGD can do its job in peace and security. I have here the report for the cabinet, in three copies, because there are three directors. Prevention affects everyone. I would ask the messenger to hand over the report to the cabinet. I also hope to get an initial response from the cabinet. Another point: it is still about prevention, and the differences between rich and poor are how important it is for everyone to have a roof over their heads. That is not the case in the Netherlands. I am, of course, particularly looking at the Secretary of State, because is emergency care guaranteed for all homeless people in the Netherlands, especially until the end of the covidwinter? The grant has been cancelled. Is the Cabinet prepared to take care of this? It's human and it's gonna stop the virus spreading when people at least have a roof over their heads. I would like to say that, in a deeply socialist country like us, this must be the starting point. At least I understood that from our Prime Minister, as you can read in the Acts. Another important prevention point is breast cancer research. I really don't understand why the Secretary of State dared to send that letter. We really need to talk about that. The Secretary of State informs us that the screening goes from two to three years. The consequence is that 57 people die every year. Those are the calculations of the RIVM. The Secretary of State says he'll stay that way until 2028. I'm saying, you can't do that. The Secretary of State has to promise that he's gonna solve that, and that he's gonna organize and arrange that capacity. I'd say you'd better bring in the army. That's a well-known solution. I don't care, but find a solution. Otherwise, I think the Court should rule on this. Then we'll table a motion on that. Another aspect is that the money intended for care should also go to care. This means that specialists must be employed. Recent research at the free-standing specialists shows how irresponsible community money is handled. Chris van Hook from BDO Accountants is devastating about the outdated construction of medical-specialist companies. That leads to a focus on production rather than health, he says. As far as we can figure out, since the financial statements of medical-specialist companies are shrouded in thick fog, turnover per free-established specialist is not frightened, €321,000 per year. The costs for the hospital are much higher, because more production caused by the specialists leads to more costs, and risks of unnecessary care provided not only by specialists, but also by all the people who belong to them. Specialists should be employed, so that the hunger for money does not hinder the provision of good and efficient care. I say that again towards the VVD, which is full of sensible concern. A majority in parliament and society want this, so let's settle it now. We have a new motion ready for that. I am, of course, expecting to see Mrs Bergkamp of D66. I hope D66 votes in favour now, so we can actually settle it. Then there's a crucial discussion. It's about the basic package and the Healthcare Institute. The decision on what belongs in the package should lie with the treating doctor in consultation with the patient, assuming that care is provided to the latest state of science and practice. That must be supported by politics, not by the Health Institute. I repeat, not by the Healthcare Institute. This is increasingly developing as a bureaucratic nuisance force that is gaining more and more power, because the neoliberal rulers and the VVD have more or less declared that Healthcare Institute sacred. They throw this over the fence at the Healthcare Institute, while politics itself has to decide what belongs in the package. As far as SP is concerned, the Healthcare Institute should only check whether something works and whether care is effective. It can also find out how expensive something is. Fine. But beyond that, the decision must be up to politics and not the Health Institute. Let's look at the deletion from the package of necessary vitamins, minerals and 1,000 milligrams of paracetamol. That was necessary care. The deletion has led to risky events. People started using dangerous drugs, like heavier painkillers. It didn't work out much. It was also remarkable that the General Court was devastating about sensible concern; something that many people are now praised for. They have been at it for years and they may have made several tens of millions, but the Court of Auditors said: should we not stop doing so? That would also be my proposal. Let's stop doing that now, because it's just not gonna work. The Healthcare Institute is increasingly developing as a sort of accountant, which should not be its role. Take the discussion on the tapering medication of antidepressants. It has long been shown that this is effective and good care. Then why has the Health Care Institute been dawdling for years? I don't know. There's got to be another investigation. It's horrible. It's just not gonna work. I say towards the CDA, but also towards the PvdA, GroenLinks and everyone: boys, stop it. Stop paying the cost of the outcome. It's just not gonna work. I have another motion here from Mrs Smilde, who remembers this old-timer? It tabled a motion in 2011 stating that the cost of the outcome should be regulated and implemented by 2020. That was nine years ago. So I'd say don't do it, don't do it, it's not gonna work. First of all, let us start by letting doctors work as an employed person. In any case, that is a lot more than that, at least many hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u210	I'd still like a more detailed explanation from Mr. Van Gerven. He says that benefit isn't gonna work. But the Healthcare Institute also talks about developing a learning culture, which means that you have to continue with things that have gone well. Does Mr Van Gerven not agree with the CDA that you sometimes see a thousand flowers blooming, so I say, but that we are not looking at which treatment is better than the others? So that's all being paid for by the package now. We all have to bring that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u211	From Mrs van den Berg's question, there is simply organised mistrust. Organized distrust of the professional. What kind of doctor, nurse or paramedic wants to provide no sense of care? That is not what we want in principle. There is a lot of discussion about which care makes sense. That is inherent in the profession, because medicine is medicine. Medicine isn't math. It's not just size and number. So you can't determine everything. There are a lot of things that happen in the speaking room that you just can't display in size and number. So let us not do that either, and let us just assume that the professionals want to provide good, sensible care to everyone. What needs to be done is to remove the financial incentives. That doctors should simply start working as an employed person. That we get the competition out. That we give hospitals and aid workers security through fixed budgets so that they can do their job properly. If we organize care in this way, it will be much more than the artificial search for 1,630 treatments that would not make sense, and this and that. That is all paper reality, which cannot be effective in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u212	I fully agree with Mr Van Gerven that we need to remove the perverse incentives, the perverse production incentives that are in them. The CDA's electoral programme also states that doctors should be employed. But I'm just giving an example from the ggz. A psychiatrist even literally said: it's not even six psychiatrists and six opinions on the treatment, no, it's six psychiatrists and ten different opinions on the treatment. That's what I mean by a learning culture. It's not about me trusting that professional. I fully agree with Mr Van Gerven: people just want to do good. They just want to help someone and give care. The last thing I want is to sit on a professional's chair. But I would like to encourage that learning culture. I would like to hear from Mr Van Gerven about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u213	It would be good if we put an end to the waiting lists. Let's do that. That we're gonna let that psychiatrist, that psychologist or anyone else discuss what treatment is right. With the ggz, that's complicated, I admit. That is also a young science, so to speak, which occurred in the nineteenth, early twentieth century. There is still much to be invented and researched, but they need to be given the space to find out in common consultation and by mirroring each other's treatments. That is what we need to organise. But I do not think that we should rely on the bath-inflation perhaps that is not the good word for it: so many doctors, so many opinions. If they have different opinions, it does not mean that they are not doing well, but that many things are just not known yet. Another point is the high mountain treatment in Davos. I'm still at that maleized care facility. I'm thinking, how is that possible? We have almost unanimously adopted a motion in the Chamber stating that this high-level treatment in Davos is a good concern for a small group of serious asthma patients and that we must organise and ensure it. In that motion, the Healthcare Institute was called upon to carry out an investigation with the aid workers so that it can continue and we can also monitor whether that is indeed a good concern. Nothing happened. The Healthcare Institute didn't do anything. We only read in the newspaper that Chairman Wijma, or Chairman W., says it is not a sensible concern and does not belong in the package. Then I think, "How does it exist?" How dare he say that? And how is it that he blames politics for us standing up for good care? That's what it's decided. It shouldn't get weirder. The Healthcare Institute, which must be serving, is home to politicians who take care of people, for everyone. I would like a reaction from the cabinet to that, from anyone. The chairman said it was a party. Former Secretary of State Clemence Ross-van Dorp is now Chairman of Long Alliance Netherlands. He wrote a furious piece of opinion. I quote: "If the Healthcare Institute deals with scientific and medical evidence in the same way as the Davos case, and 50% of the care makes no sense, patients are going to pay for the president's party. It is up to politics to stop this." What does the Cabinet think of her opinion? Then there's something up-to-date: coronacasen. Is there any saving on care without compromising the patient and the professional? Sure. If we look at spending on expensive medicines, we're just in the throes of the pharmaceutical industry. One of the ways to test the use and effect of medicines is to stimulate independent public research. Hopefully, the Cabinet will now support my new amendment for an independent revolver drug fund that can count on the support of doctors, and you will believe it or not, including the health insurance companies. They agree with the SP on this point. 5 million is about one thousandth of the total expenditure on medicines in the insurance package. It's a little bit more, but I'm talking about a 1,000th in the order of 5 billion. A great deal of research can be carried out in the interests of our public health. What does the Secretary of State think about Big Pharma's coronacasen? Let's take the example of Remdesevir. That's Gilead's. It's a treatment that turns out it's not working. So it is also an ineffective medicine which I suspect Gilead already knew more or less. The cost is €10. We pay €2,000 per treatment. What does the Cabinet think and what are we going to do about it? Then the regional hospitals. I just wanted to ask, on behalf of Jeannette Hessels and Kitty van Eeperen from Gorinchem, who started this petition, whether the cabinet is prepared to withdraw those plans, those charcoal sketches, take that piece back and do that work again. Then there is another point in the Secretary of State's portfolio: the Indian issue, the backpay. This remains a very painful page in our history. I wanted to ask the Secretary of State whether it is not possible to repair that injustice from the past by still granting a grant to widows of civil servants or military personnel who were employed by the Dutch-Indian Government at the time of the Japanese occupation on 15 August 2015 and who were not paid a full or full salary over the period of the Japanese occupation. I have a second-term motion on this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, oral care. What exactly is the state of play with regard to the training of extra dentists? I didn't believe the Minister's answers. A year ago, it would be solved. More dentists need to be trained because the capacity is not in order. We were supposed to get word of that. We're a year away, we get the same answer and it's not solved, while the OCW Minister should be able to. The deficit has grown further. What is the state of play on this point and will the cabinet now increase training capacity? Every year 100 extra dentists must be trained. Finally, Mr. Chairman. Is the signal going to be picked up that for a number of people in debt restructuring the supplementary insurance will fall out? Those people will no longer be reimbursed for dental care through supplementary insurance. Is that problem going to be solved? Mr. Chairman. For nothing, the sun rises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u214	Thank you. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u215	When I was shocked to hear that Mr. Van Gerven is 65 years old and is also retiring, I thought I should give him a compliment. Because I've known him a few years longer from Oss. When I was a little boy, he was an alderman. Now I'm a little bigger and he's not an alderman anymore. I wanted to say that he may have found new words, but he says exactly the same thing. I think that's worth a compliment. Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u216	Well, I think that's really very... Thank you, Mr. Peters. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u217	Thank you, Mr President. I thought I'd put on a red jacket, because it fits the SP. That's how I'm gonna do something friendly. Apart from that tomato colour, the speaker just said something about a motion he might table tomorrow on Indonesia, India and that kind of subject matter. I think that's a little dark. I'd like to know exactly what you mean by that. What are you going to submit tomorrow and what can we already take into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u218	It's just that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u219	I said Mr Van Gent, but that had to be Mr Van Gerven. We also know Ineke from Ghent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u220	Van Gent does the Indian matter for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u221	Yeah, it's crazy how the brain works. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u222	Everyone knows that the Indian issue, the backpay, is still hard on the stomach. I think that goes for the whole Chamber, no matter what position everyone has taken. I'm looking at what's possible. We are the people who met it was a small group of about 600 people but the widows did not. I proposed this in the debate at the time, but it was voted away by a majority of the House. I would like to make that proposal again and also on behalf of Mr Kerstens. We are in this together. So that's what you can expect tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you, Mr. Van Gerven. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague just said don't talk too long. We are doing this debate together. I'll take care of the long-term care. I will also replace my colleague Rens Raemakers, who is unfortunately ill, with regard to medical care. Mrs Diertens will be paying attention to prevention, also in the light of her own initiative paper. Mr. Chairman. It is again the last VWS budget in this cabinet period. It's not a budget like any other. Corona's still holding our lives in the hold. We see this in this budget, but above all in the care itself. In March, hospital staff suddenly had to go into the workplace in fully protective suits, almost unrecognizable for colleagues. Personal protective equipment was often lacking in nursing homes. People died without their loved ones in their vicinity. Others died in the hospital within hours. Major surgeries were postponed. Emergency plans were taken out of the closet. Crisis teams were rigged. Divisions were closed. I would also like to say that I have a great deal of respect and appreciation for the VWS Ministry, because they have been working since the beginning of the crisis. It's a crisis like we've never experienced day and night to do the best for our country. A heartfelt thanks also to the rulers, because their work cannot be easy. Mr. Chairman. Amidst all this hecticness, I think our concern has shown its full potential, as has the strength for the future of the employees, with all their quality and commitment, of the healthcare providers, who have gone much more intensively into work, of the solidarityed municipalities and the united health insurance companies, and of the digitalisation that has taken off. We must cherish that power. But I also see that the unrest and uncertainty have returned to the nursing homes, which are being hit again. It looks like the second wave is going to last longer, while employees in care still have to recover from the first. The people who were hoping to catch up on their treatment are now running up against a wall again. I would like an extensive reflection of these wide-ranging concerns. Mr. Chairman. We also call for attention to be paid to the caregiver at this time. We know they defected before Corona. The scaling up and scaling down of care has an immediate impact on their lives. I have tabled an amendment with some of my colleagues for the Mantelzorging Line. It is important that people can ask questions, be helped and get legal advice, especially at this time. I therefore hope for a positive response. Another important lesson from the first wave is that there has been too late and too little attention to long-term care. Think of nursing homes, the disabled sector and home care, in which people were not sufficiently connected at first to the distribution of protective equipment. With the wisdom of today I realize that it is always a lot easier afterward, we know that the visitation ban was very far-reaching. We can now conclude that it was too far-reaching. In these areas, quite good steps have been taken, but can the Minister guarantee that long-term care remains sufficiently linked to decision-making? I think we should keep asking these kinds of difficult questions, because the vaccine gives rise to hope, but of course we are far from there. Mr. Chairman. This last budget debate is also the time to take stock: how has the health care policies of these leaders and their predecessors worked out over the past four years? What stands out? A lot of work has been done, and my colleagues have said it many times in all kinds of debates, with action programmes. A awareness campaign has been launched on all VWS themes. I must say that I myself have sometimes been guilty of this, by asking myself for an awareness campaign on a particular subject. We see through these programmes that I say in all honesty positive developments when it comes to the quality of nursing homes, but also when it comes to loneliness. I had to get used to that, 'cause I'm not that good at making it work. But I see that clear steps have been taken and that it has moved up the agenda. Think also of the influx into the labour market. I really liked the labour market campaign. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, honesty also commands me to say that the leaders have not grasped the major bottlenecks and challenges of the future. Think of the outflow of staff, the still increasing regulatory burden, the fight against fraud, getting a grip on growth. Look at the money we spend together on care care and the waiting lists in nursing care. Well, that's a worry. I would very much like to take a number of issues into account...D66 has also formulated a vision of concern. I brought it. I was totally inspired by GroenLinks, so I thought: printer, do your job. Luckily, that worked out in time. I don't know if it's chic, but there's a picture of me in there. Anyway, we worked really fast to print it. So I hope that this vision of care can be taken into account in the future visions. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention four pillars: from health to health, my colleague, Mr Diertens, will look at this in great detail in the near future: a grip on growth, cooperation on unity and space for diversity. First of all about controlling growth. The directors I said just now have not yet got a grip on the costs of care. If, after the corona crisis, the catch-up takes place, let us take that opportunity to see if that concern is appropriate. I am referring to care that we know is effective and that it is only provided to patients who need that care. I think that has been very nicely exchanged in all kinds of interrupt debates. Has there been any concern that we haven't missed or that we can do better? We need to set firm conditions for the Care Evaluation and Custom Use programme, so that it can have better results than, for example, the Sensitive Care Programme. I believe that the advice of the Healthcare Institute and the NZa is a considerable support for the Minister to continue to work on more stringent conditions. Otherwise, it will remain non-binding and I understand Mr Van Gerven's remark that you are at some point years ahead and are still holding the debate on the same subject. We shouldn't want that. Mr. Chairman. It is also important to reduce these financial incentives for production, it has changed more often. That is what we want, for better care and for control of expenditure. That may be in those rates or in more long-term contracts, and that can also partly be done when it comes to the remuneration of the specialists. In almost four years, only twelve free-established specialists have used the subsidy scheme for the transition to paid employment. This year, the scheme has not even been brought to the fore. Does the Minister have the idea that the scheme could be effective in this way? If not, what does she want to do about it? It is said, however, that a mandatory switch is a huge cost for the government in legal terms. We would have liked to have verified that, so for this form, medical specialists employed, and all intermediate variants. Would the Minister ask the national attorney, for example, to take a look at that? What are these barriers, legally and in terms of costs? For it is clear that this is an important subject for us, but that we have also agreed on it in the coalition agreement. I would therefore like to say to the honourable Members on the left that we cannot go so far as to support a motion. But I do hope that we can take a step to look at the legal and financial consequences. Mr. Chairman. In addition, the cabinet has also taken many measures concerning the accumulation of care costs. The abolition of the Wtcg, a compensation risk of its own, was at the time hard hit by chronically ill and disabled people. This task has been transferred to the municipalities. Is that gonna be okay? Will the Minister simply carry out the legal evaluation that Mrs Voortman had already called for in an amendment? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, we see great differences between the different forms of the own contribution: nothing in the district care, but sometimes you have a lot of costs in the Wlz when you go to a nursing home. And in the Wmo, of course, we have the subscription rate. We are now getting signals from district nurses that people are going to make choices with the calculator in hand, rather than looking at the need for care. You shouldn't want that. Will the Minister examine this accumulation of own contributions, the interaction between them and the possible perverse incentives? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the following subject: working together on unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u225	I had another question about the risk. What strikes me when you look at all the election programmes, is that almost all parties now say that their own risk should be frozen, reduced or eliminated. The SP wants to abolish it. But there is one party that chooses a higher own risk, and that's D66. I would like to ask Mrs Bergkamp why she and her party choose to increase that own risk to €400 in their new programme, while even a party like the VVD says "freeze it," and even more sensible parties say "shuffle it." Why do you do that? Why are you billing the people who need care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u226	We're all gonna see what eventually becomes reality. We think it's important not to raise false expectations. There are several parties who say in campaign time that they are going to abolish it and then they turn out to halve it eventually. Or they say they're gonna freeze it and then it turns out there's some form of indexing. So I think it's important to tell the honest story here. That's how we wrote it down in the election program. We have indeed proposed to go from €385 to €400, but have said that it cannot be the case that you make up your entire risk at once. It's not transparent right now. You need an MRI, you don't know how expensive it is, and poop boom, you've lost your whole risk. This leads to uncertainty and carelessness. As we see now, at the end of the year, it also leads to calculating behavior. You don't want to. So we propose four tranches, with a total of €400 and €100 per treatment. We think that is fair, and we think that is transparent and clear. If you look at the future of one's own risk and the basic path, you can honestly see a huge growth in it. Then €400 is really no longer compared to the basic path.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u227	I think this is a strange argument. In fact, Mrs Bergkamp says that anyone who writes something in the programme is not going to do so. That's actually what she's saying. Anyone who says "down," isn't gonna do that. Anyone who says "to zero" isn't gonna do that. Only we write something down, "enhanced," which we think is realistic, and that is the honest story. In the previous programme, you wrote on "we want all doctors to be employed" and you did not. So it's not like something you write down does happen automatically. So my question remains exactly the same: why is D66 of the parties whose programmes I have seen so far the only one opting for a higher own risk, while society, the patients, everyone, is asking for a reduction or elimination of one's own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u228	I am so sorry that the SP only talks about the difference of that €15 and does not look at the model we have in our programme: that €400 max, €100 times four, which makes it clear, more transparent and less leads to avoid care. I'm always so sorry it's about that €15. You're right about that. It's a little higher, but compared to the base path, there's no increase. I think you should be real there. I think you should also look at the future, what it looks like. This is just the real story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u229	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u230	By the way, I see -0.46 on my bell. I hope that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u231	Yeah, it really is. It's kept neatly, not by me. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u232	I wanted to continue on the point made by Mr Hijink. Of course, all the parties who have written that in their election programme are aware that it costs money. No one has done that lightly. We all have a proper financial paragraph. All that can be accounted for. That is why it is all the more amazing that D66 still retains the concept of its own risk. Recent research has shown that people are going to avoid care, you call it calculating behavior, I call it care avoidance, and that such a risk reduces the accessibility of care. You shouldn't want that, should you? So I really don't understand why you're holding on to this. You don't even have a problem with it. I'm really surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u233	I just think it's really important to tell the honest story here, like how we look at our own risk. I also took a look at your own risk section. It says, "Abandon your own risk." So I thought, "So, that's big." I see below: therefore, my party proposes its own contribution per treatment. When I look at the flow, there is no abolition at all, but a halving in 2025. So I find that confusing for the people, that there is being called "we abolish it" and that when you read the small print in the program of the PvdA you see that there is "half of it in 2025." My party didn't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u234	We have never made it a secret that we want to eliminate this risk of our own and that we want to do so in steps. We have made three or four counter-budgets together with GroenLinks and the SP in which we are indeed doing it step-by-step. That's not new. My question to Mrs Bergkamp is how it is possible for her party to hold on to the concept of its own risk, not even start phasing it out and say that abolishing it leads to calculating citizens, while the practice is that it leads to people avoiding care, people who need that care. Again, fine that you say "we don't abolish it," but it is really a very special position at a time when we all want to give more trust to people and trust that when people go to the doctor, that's necessary and that they don't because they feel like they're not feeling so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u235	I really thought that Mrs Ploumen took the measure when she started her speech that we want to hold on to our own risk, but I am glad that she admits that the PvdA is also holding on to its own risk and is halving it from 2025. I'm glad. Then we got rid of that misunderstanding. But of course it is also important that we look at the model I present, the model of four times €100. The reason for this is precisely what I have also appointed to counter this concern, because we see people thinking: smack, boom, I've lost my whole risk. That's what we're hoping to solve. But it's also not a good thing that people think: my own risk is at the end of the year, so I'm going to ask for a lot of care now. That's a shame, too, that people with the calculator in their hands make those kinds of choices. We believe that our proposal is realistic and clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u236	Yes, you may correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u237	If you think people with calculators are gonna stand in their hands when they're sick to see how it's best, then that's really a cynical human image that doesn't send me a single message. Again, the Labour Party is going to reduce its own risk. That is really something else than Mrs Bergkamp tells us about her own programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u238	I think that people now understand the programme of yours better, because it really says: we are eliminating our own risk. Mr President, I am moving faster through time. When it comes to the number of training places for general practitioners, I agree with what has already been said. We think that's important. Especially in certain shrinking regions there are shortages, so it is really important that there are more places. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect. Mr. Chairman. We want more congruence in the different regional divisions. I have also indicated this in previous debates. I hope that we can take a step in that direction. I'm also making a motion on that. Mr. Chairman. My next topic is diversity. I would like to ask the Minister the following question. A very nice document, an interdepartmental policy study, has been published about people with a slight intellectual disability. What is the status of these recommendations? It would be very nice if we could take a step in that direction. The same applies to our pink elderly people. I have also tabled an amendment on this subject: the Ihbti elders and the Pink 50+ ambassadors, not to be confused with 50PLUS on the other side. By that, I mean the party, not the age. It is important to pay real attention to this. Their project's gonna stop. It would be very nice if they could continue, when it comes to diversity. I have tabled an amendment with Mrs Ploumen on gender and health. After the interruption, you may think that we cannot agree with each other, but we have a beautiful amendment that we have fought for for a long time. But then you also have something, because it is important that the research that is taking place is extended by one year. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a question about PrEP. I'm going on a number of subjects very quickly now, given the time. You know that my party is in favour of extending PrEP, for example when I look at the GGDs. I wonder when the Minister will be able to give us some more information on this. Mr. Chairman. Female genital mutilation is a terrible subject. Last year we took some steps together with Mr Raemakers and Mrs Ploumen. An expertise center has been set up. In the end, the Zorginstituut advised positively and is part of the basic package. We have tabled an amendment to make sure that there is no more threshold for these women if we take the risk of taking it off. Mr. Chairman. Almost finally, the homogeneous therapy. Together with the PvdA and GroenLinks we have tabled a motion to find out if this occurs in the Netherlands and how bad it is. We know that it occurs in the Netherlands and that it is serious. What I really think is very serious... Three directors are responsible for public health. We know it's bad. I really hope that we do not have to wait long for a reaction from the cabinet, because we have been waiting for that since May. I think that is very serious, so I hope that one of the three directors will be able to say something about it tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Finally, medical cannabis. We would like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to do other research in parallel with the current basic clinical research, particularly with regard to client profiles and using the medical cannabis that is already being provided, for example through the Transvaal Pharmacy. It would be very nice if that investigation could take place in parallel. It would be very nice if the revenues earned from the export of medicinal cannabis were used for more research into medicinal cannabis and drugs. I understand that income is now disappearing in the state treasury, but that does not seem to me to be a good thing. I hope the Minister will be able to respond positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u239	I would like to come back to the amendment on general practitioners. I understand that D66 and the CDA are proposing to train more general practitioners in relation to the shrinking regions. We're talking about 20 general practitioners. We all know there's a huge shortage of general practitioners. I would like to ask D66 what is the training capacity of the number of general practitioners and what the Capacity Body estimates, what it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u240	The Capacity Body has recommended a minimum of 863 and a maximum of 978. The Minister has indicated that she can realize 800 places. Let's face it: that's more than last year, so that's really a step forward. Last year it was 750. We are adding 20 training places to this to reduce this difference with the Capacity Body. In particular, it calls on the Minister to make an effort, particularly for the shrinking regions, knowing that this is more difficult than in the Randstad. I realize that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u241	That's a weird guy. The Capacity Body estimates year after year higher. It's the same story in dentists. More people need to be trained, we need more general practitioners to strengthen that first line, to relieve the second line, to help people in the first line better. Then why isn't that happening? An amendment now proposes that 20 more general practitioners be trained. But if it is a financial issue, because that is clearly what it is, why did you not arrange in the coalition, through the cabinet, for at least what the Capacity Body proposes to be achieved? Why is the proposal of the Capacity Body not being followed up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u242	I think that's more of a question to the Minister. In any case, we have contributed to reducing this cut-off and tackling the main bottlenecks in it. So I think that Mr Van Gerven should be pleased if a Member of Parliament with a number of colleagues takes the initiative to at least make a contribution to this, including a cover that can be provided. We have a slightly different view of money and cover. It is always an art to find appropriate cover for such an important issue. I think Mr Van Gerven should be pleased that we are at least making a contribution to this. Because we all want more general practitioners, and that is why we need to train more general practitioners. That is what we are doing through this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u245	I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66. You have something with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u246	Thank you. I brought some nice books, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u247	Is your picture in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u248	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u249	Well, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u250	I'll do a signing after the debate. Mr. Chairman. When you ask people what they think is important in their lives, they often say: health. 'Cause who doesn't want to grow up healthy? But it's more complicated to stay healthy than it seems. Just think of the fact that obese people can also be malnourished and that inactive lives can have a significant impact on mental health. The focus on a healthy lifestyle has grown. This is urgently needed, because people with a lower socio-economic position are still living 15 years shorter in good health, 50% of people with overweight, and the number of people with a chronic disease linked to lifestyle increases every year. The corona crisis has put a magnifying glass on it, because we are now seeing the impact on intensive care. Scientists are ringing the alarm bells from all angles. Yeah, we have a Prevention Agreement, and I'm happy about that. But as I said before, the ambitions are too thin. We must set up the Netherlands in such a way that a healthy choice becomes self-evident, not by lecturers but by supporting them on the way to a healthy future. The government has a very important role to play in this. And that's why I picked up the glove. I come with proposals to take a new step in the right direction. In doing so, I would like to hand over to the directors my initiative paper for a healthy lifestyle with 29 decisions to take concrete steps forward. I'd like to ask you for a good and quick cabinet response. Mr. Chairman. The most ultimate form of prevention is vaccination. A well-functioning vaccine saves lives. I got a smile on my face when I heard that the first corona vaccine will probably be approved on December 29th. But if we want to proceed quickly to vaccination, then we must remain agile in the preparations. Because it's still not clear who's really going to be vaccinated first. We may not hear that until the end of December. And that matters again how, when and where the vaccines are administered. The Minister states to prepare himself for all scenarios. Can the Minister indicate exactly where we are now in the preparations? And is 4 January really feasible? This morning's coverage caused me concern. Not everyone's been pulled over yet, and the troops are running. Situations like the previous one with the test chain must be avoided. It will be quite an operation to administer all vaccines as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions about population surveys, also a nice and effective way of prevention. It is about preventing serious diseases. Delaying the investigations during the corona crisis has serious consequences. Hence some questions. When does the Secretary of State expect women to be able to screen for breast cancer every two years? Is it about years? Screening on lung cancer in smokers is effective, but there's no way to check if you've smoked, so we're not doing any research right now. Has the Secretary of State considered alternatives, as on the basis of referral? Skin cancer is an underexposed disease, because cost-effective measures are available here too. What initiatives have been launched? Mr. Chairman. I could ask a lot of questions about ggz and social care. We had a debate on this last week, so I will leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. Mr. Renkema. This is the last question for GroenLinks, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u252	That's right. It was just really quick about the ggz, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u253	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u254	I have tabled an amendment on the Euthanasia Expertise Centre. D66, of course, has just been able to listen to two interrupt debates between the Christian Union and me respectively. My question is: what is D66's position on this amendment, especially since I read in the D66 election programme that they also advocate training from the Euthanasia Expertise Centre?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u255	I have to say, I've worked in psychiatry myself. I have visited a number of people with a very serious form of psychiatric disorders with whole, very, very deep, serious backgrounds. Then I think you know our party. If people choose for themselves and really don't want to live anymore, because life is too heavy or too difficult for them, then we should guide them in these choices. That's verse one. What the amendment means, of course, we want to look at it very well. I think we're all gonna get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past few months, we have all felt how important it is to be sure of care and how important it is that there are people in care who want to nurse us when we need it, who give us loving care at the moment when we need it. We have also been able to see how much was not possible at first. Other colleagues have already spoken about this. There was central direction, which we often need to miss. You could've done that now. Insurers gave the space to healthcare providers, to hospitals, to rebuild departments, to work together, to discuss where patients could best go. Digitisation was suddenly possible, even for those who were always holding back. The core of it was that it was always about care and quality and no longer about price and competition. You'd think, "Let's hold on to that." But unfortunately, the insurers were like the chickens when things got better in June, to let hospitals know: you shouldn't think it can go on like that. Now it is every man for himself again, because we want to negotiate tariffs and prices with each individual. That was actually a cold shower, that's how I experienced it. Because why put a penalty on cooperation again, which had led to so much better care and much better cooperation? My question to these ministers is therefore the following. We asked them earlier what lessons we learned from that first wave of the pandemic. Why don't you get that straight and deal with it, we asked? They did. We can do a little better here and there, but those lessons have been collected. And now I would like to ask the ministers: look at what was going well and what was not possible at first. Shouldn't we keep that? Would you mind getting that straight? What does that even mean? Then, I think, we come to a system, a system of care, in which the government is much more directing and the health insurance companies focus on good care rather than the wrong incentives and on profits. We've already talked about that. Then I think we will reach multi-annual agreements, and then we will focus on sensible concern. I would like to make a number of moves, but I would ask the Ministers to get this straight for us. Because within the system, as I say straight away to Mr Veldman, a great deal is possible that takes us very far away from the system of market operation as we have it now. The government must indeed take the lead and no longer the insurers. That's step one. Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of other proposals on behalf of my group. An affordable bounty. We need to get rid of the system in which the premium is high and people get care allowances, which is basically just pumping the money around. A decent salary for care workers. I repeat, Mrs Agema: if you work full-time in healthcare, you just have to be able to live on it. A policy that is clear and that provides a basic package with all the care people need. So no budget policy and no policy jungle. Let us make sure that the solidarity that people bring to each other in our system is rewarded, because that is a real good thing. A package containing necessary care but containing also contraception. That concern may not be curative, but it is important and essential. It should also include the removal of silicone implants, which make women seriously ill. We got a petition yesterday about that. This package also contains an abortion pill that can be obtained from the general practitioner, under an initiative law of Mrs Ellemeet and myself. A package in which senseless care is simply no longer reimbursed and it is left to the doctor to give it, if a particular type of treatment is effective in certain patients. But we should not keep coûte que coûte in the package all those nonsense treatments that only increase prices and make no one better. An organisation of care aimed at cooperation without profit distribution. We are working on an initiative proposal for this, together with the SP and the CDA. The Lower House has already voted in a majority, but the Upper House had some reservations. But when I hear everyone like that today, we're all opposed to benefits in health care. Mr. Chairman. What else should be in that adjusted system? Emergency services reachable within 15 minutes. We received a petition from Gorinchem this afternoon. 21,000 people signed that petition. 12,000 signatures have already been signed in Weert. There are dozens of mayors in turmoil because of the plans of this cabinet. Apart from the fact that the plans are not good, they have caused a great deal of unrest. I would very much like to hear from Minister Van Ark how she will channel not only that unrest and indignation, but also how and when she will come up with a better plan. Mr. Chairman. A lot has been said in recent years about the importance of the general practitioner, the practitioners and the medical assistant. Recently, there has been a survey among 1,600 general practitioners which shows that, of course forced, they have indeed started to carry out much more digital and telephone consultations, but also that they have started to hold much longer consultations. I believe that almost 60% of general practitioners expect that physical consultations will normally take twenty minutes instead of ten. I would ask the Minister to have the NZa adjust the funding of these consultations so that a longer regular consultation is possible and that it is not all a double consultation with all kinds of red tape. Mr. Chairman. A healthcare system that works for everyone should actually ensure that we do not get sick. In that light, it is completely incomprehensible that we still have no sugar tax. In that light, it is still completely incomprehensible that fruit and vegetables are often more expensive than frikandells and croquettes, although I like to give everyone a frikandelle or croquette. That's not the point at all. But you have to be able to make healthy choices, even if you have less money. We propose that a regional prevention fund be set up. The Empire, the health insurance companies, the health offices and the municipalities must participate in this. A percentage of the premium could be invested in it, so that it will pay to ensure that people do not get sick. Because we have seen that people who have little money often suffer from chronic diseases. They are the ones who have been hit very hard in this pandemic. We really need to do something about that. A quick, simple step that we can arrange with a motion, chakka, is the setting of a sugar tax. I think Mrs Van Esch is going to table that motion. Only the VVD still resists, I think. That resistance must be broken urgently. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few points. The GGDs should be given a basic set of tasks which will make it impossible for municipalities to shop in them. That standard package must be enforced. That means we'd like to see a law. The behaviour of the pharmacists who make vaccines a earning model must no longer be rewarded. That is why, together with Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, I call for the introduction of compulsory licences to be made easier and for the Minister of the United States of America to call upon the Minister to give a decisive vote. Care for women can do much better. This is good for all of us, including in terms of cost reduction in healthcare. Together with Mrs Bergkamp, I am tabling an amendment to that effect. I made an initiative paper for that. When I hear the colleagues who spoke about this, I think that this can count on quite broad support. I'd like that very much. Mr President, two final points. Many have already spoken about the population survey on breast cancer. It is incomprehensible that women's lives should be put at risk in this way. The shortage dates back to the corona pandemic, so that really can't be an apology. How complicated can it be? We just want an investigation every two years because this saves lives. Why wouldn't we? So I'd like a commitment from the Secretary of State. In breast cancer research, side-effects are often found. They are not reported to women or to their general practitioner. This also leads to avoidable cases of breast cancer. I've talked to the Secretary of State about that before. At the very least, women need to know that these side effects are not reported. And at the very least, the information about that needs to be adjusted. I would say to the Secretary of State that I would rather see these parallel findings reported. Let's change the new leaflet 'cause sometimes it's as simple as that, President-in-Office of the Council, at least as from 1 January 2021, so that women can be on their own qui-vive. My final point concerns the prohibition of homeopathic treatments against autism. Elijah of 17 raised that and offered a manifesto to the Secretary of State. Elijah is deeply, deeply disappointed because the Secretary of State is not taking any steps to ban these treatments. That's the disappointment I'm conveying. I invite the Secretary of State to come forward with an appropriate answer tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u258	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens, also on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year I started my contribution here with a plea for all the employees in the care, who are ready for us all day and night, always putting patients and clients first, even if that is at the expense of themselves, and who deserve more appreciation for it, including in their wallets. I then tabled an amendment for more money for better salaries, but that did not make it at the time. I told on that occasion that I had a Friday night shift with Marijke, a nurse in the emergency room at the Rijnstate Hospital in Arnhem. A month ago, I was in that same hospital this time as a patient. Like last year, I was struck by the commitment, dedication and professionalism of the people there, not only in the hospital but everywhere in the care. This time something else touched me, perhaps even more, namely how tired most people were, however disappointed and frustrated, however demotivated, by us, by politics. And no matter how angry some people are, at that same politics, at us. I understand that very well. They are overwhelmed with applause, but are in the cold when it comes to real appreciation. They are also increasingly victims of aggression, of swearing, of intimidation and even of violence, by people with a fuse that is getting shorter as the corona crisis lasts longer. First applause and now a middle finger, from people who believe in the virus less and less or less in how we deal with that virus here in politics. A minister celebrates his wedding as if there were no rules, the king goes on his own plane to Greece as if it were not said: stay home. The cabinet blames everyone but gets its own business but not in order. Overcharged with applause, but standing in the cold when it comes to real appreciation, because we can't even make something positive like a bonus a gift, because it takes us so long and has been so incredibly stupid. Because we can't make it here to actually raise the salaries of the people in care. That hurts me, Mr President, because it cannot: use such big words when it comes to the appreciation of the people in the care, but then leave them in the cold. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet to launch a public campaign to make it clear to everyone that you don't care about our people with your hands. Give the healthcare bonus to every healthcare worker, compensate for the risk of care workers being affected by corona and cross the bridge with a structural wage increase: do not spend less money on it, as the cabinet now intends, but more. Do that. Do it if the people in the care are nice to you, if the care is nice to you. The problems I outlined last year have not been reduced. On the contrary, employees work their way around and fall over. Clients and patients can not be helped or later. There's one in front of you here, and sometimes healthcare providers can barely keep their heads above water. Municipalities have no money to make, so to speak. I was talking about a menacing health condition last year. That infarct is now manifesting. Whether there's room on the ICU is just the question. Mr. Chairman. In response to the call for more appreciation and to address the huge shortage of staff in care, the cabinet does not go much further than extending the Work in Care Action Plan. We all remember that the action plan would reduce the shortage of staff in healthcare, I quote, 'direction zero'. But since that plan came, there have been more vacancies than ever that are harder to fill than ever. Work pressure and absenteeism are higher than ever. The job fun is lower than ever. More people leave their employer's care than ever before. If it's up to the cabinet, we're gonna solve all these problems by extending this program. Of course not. But bearing in mind the motto "any advantage has its disadvantage," the misery that Corona causes may also offer a chance for care. At the request of the Labour Party, the cabinet pays a lot of money for a so-called work guarantee scheme. It's meant for people who lose their jobs because of the corona crisis. It is a job guarantee, so that they do not become unemployed with all the misery they cause, but are helped to a sector where there is work, a sector such as care. I therefore call on the Minister to be at the forefront of his concerns and to come up with a plan quickly. The certainty of good affordable care nearby if you need it, is a matter of civilization in a rich country like ours, you would think. But that certainty has been put under increasing pressure in recent years. What about the promised better access to care for the most vulnerable? The Ombudsman has just answered that question. Not good, he said for the umpteenth time. In the words of the Ombudsman, too little has been done. Too many people no longer see the forest through the trees, or can't even find the forest. And it's getting more and more. In this respect, it does not help that the removal of the forest from collection discounts, which the Labour Party is also in favour of, also threatens to eliminate the municipality's policy. That's the kid with the bathwater toss. Such a policy can prevent high bills and high debts for, and care avoidment by people with a small wallet. Its deletion leads to it. Therefore, make an exception for the municipality policy. When we talk about municipalities, of course, we are also talking about the subscription rate. The figures are clear: people with a thicker wallet now also know how to find their way to the municipality for domestic help. This leads to problems for municipalities that face considerable additional costs, even though they are already often on black soil, and for people with a minimum income who have to fear that they will be the first victims of necessary cuts in their municipalities. The minister is posing as some sort of reverse Robin Hood. I'm asking him to do something about that. Delete the subscription rate, adjust it or compensate municipalities in a better way than hitherto. But also go more firmly with those same municipalities in consultation on how to better monitor and monitor, and how to keep a better eye on what healthcare providers all figure out and, above all, what they deserve from it. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister where the legislation on fraud and abuse that has been promised for some time remains in the care of him. The fact that a planned debate has been taken off the agenda is a bad sign. Another thing, I'm afraid, is to say. And that while decent care providers, because of corona, can sometimes barely keep their heads above water. They deserve speedy clarification on the extension of previously agreed financial arrangements. I refer in particular to the letter of fire from the youth services that we received this morning. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to re-launch the re-evaluation for the care side in the care, which is taking place outside the hospital, for example in people's homes. The fact that such a revaluation is urgently needed has shown once again in the past year. It seemed like the care was a bit attached, with terrible consequences for employees who too often had to do their work unsafely and for clients. The latter, there are a lot of them and there are growing numbers of older people. Older people would like to stay home longer in their own familiar environment, but we must make that possible. I therefore repeat my plea to keep the money that is left in the neighbourhood every year. There, for example, more use can be made of the specialist on old age medicine who, together with other healthcare professionals, volunteers and carers, contributes to a beautiful, well-deserved old age of people. I propose to set up a few pilot neighbourhoods, bringing together the forces, with suitable homes for ageing people, facilities close by and a network of cooperating professionals and volunteers. It is a variant of the well-known "it takes a village to raise a child." Finally, Mr President, intensive child care. The subject is of particular concern to me, as a father, but also because I have met many parents, who at home account for an important part of the care for their seriously ill child. This is made more and more impossible by health insurers. A few weeks ago, in a debate with the Minister, the Labour Party put forward the proposal to appoint a mediator to find a solution with the field. The minister then indicated that he would like to wait, because he hoped that the field itself would come out with a set of new rules of the game. Those new rules have been in place since last Monday, but the misery has only increased. My phone is red-hot, and parents feel like they're being sidetracked. That is why I ask the Minister once again: please do not allow this to escalate further and appoint the mediator now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u260	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the corona crisis, we have seen that nurses and caregivers do what is necessary outside the protocols and ticking lists. Of course, I do not want to detract from the incredible impact of this crisis on healthcare staff, but we have seen how important it is to create space to do what these people are trained for. That's worry. This requires a different way of thinking and working; a way of working in which management is available to the caregivers, so that they are given the space to practice their profession. Last Friday, during an online mini-conference by digital means, I handed over our manifesto Care for control to the Minister for Medical Care. In it, we propose more participation, better pay and space to learn from mistakes. To point out that the whole cabinet is dear to me, I do not want to make a distinction. I brought three copies here: the next present. Unfortunately no drops and no photos, but also something from the Christian Union. I think the licorice has won, I hear whispering here. I hope they will take note of the content. There are important things in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u262	It's short but powerful. It's just two pages or something, I see. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u263	It's short but powerful, and every word matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u264	It's about quality. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u265	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union wants an advisory council for nurses and nurses to be legally anchored, as a lever to create a culture in an organisation in which the voice of nurses and nurses is really heard. This improves care and allows us to retain staff for this beautiful course. Can the Minister promise that there will be legislation for this? Mr. Chairman. Control also applies to patients, of course. Last year, a motion by myself and Mr Veldman on joint decision-making was adopted in the healthcare sector. I ask the Minister what the state of affairs is. Is this now sufficiently embedded in education and training programmes? Mr. Chairman. Growing up has gotten a nice place in the coalition chord. Over the past four years, much has happened to bring closer to a society in which young and old feel seen and appreciated; a society in which everyone participates, even as you grow older. But we're not there yet. There are a number of points that really need to be addressed, for example in order to achieve sufficient housing between home and nursing home, to prevent loneliness among the elderly, and to ensure that elderly people in the Netherlands can go anywhere with their life questions. The Christian Union considers it important to secure access to spiritual care. We advocate the legal definition of the right to mental care, and a nationwide coverage of mental care through the Regional Life Questions Centres, which are sustainably funded. The VWS Minister has undertaken to produce results in the first half of 2021. We look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna head back to October. Then the VWS committee received the plea of the National Expertise Centre Die for wider attention to the final phase of life. The political and public debate on dying is mainly about euthanasia, about completed life and about unbearable suffering, while at the last stage of life there are other aspects, such as palliative care, goodbye and last wishes. Most people still die at a natural time. By that, I mean without a prior medical decision or medical intervention. In Dutch society there is a lot of ignorance about dying. We're gonna delay thinking about this for us. Doctors also find it difficult to discuss this. The National Expertise Center Die has a lot of knowledge about this. Is the Minister of VWS prepared to promote the availability of this knowledge in general practitioners' practice? Mr. Chairman. People's lives can't always be divided into government systems. A good example of cross-domain work as long as we leave the systems out for what they are in the middle of the country, at care organisation Opella. But there are more examples. An arranger gets people with dementia under his care and can arrange all necessary help and support for the client. People then live longer at home, they have better quality of life and it saves costs. As far as my group is concerned, this is a textbook example of appropriate care. With the CDA, the ChristianUnion asks the Minister to further facilitate cross-domain cooperation in a region by allowing more organisations to make arrangements with the municipality, health insurance and healthcare office, and to make money saved in the Wlz available to the Wmo for people who have indicated dementia or are very vulnerable old. I would like to bring this to the attention of the US Secretary of State. Then I'll go to the beginning of life. In recent years, much has been invested in preventing unintended pregnancies, including a nationwide information point, a nationwide telephone number, a network of trained decision-makers and a nationwide funding of choice-help calls. The Secretary of State has made a huge effort to do so. I recently introduced myself to the concept of Centering Pregnancy via digital means. Honestly, I didn't know that, but I can see Mr Peters' thumbs up here. It is a form of group care for women who are pregnant. This form of care shows extremely good results in the preparation of childbirth, young parenthood, breast-feeding, contraception, but also, for example, health and mental health of women themselves. It also achieves women with less health skills. Only: the funding is not structurally secured. Would the Minister like to speak in favour of this and enter into consultation with the NZa on tariffs? Then I come to another subject that is very important to us, namely prevention. Two years ago, the Prevention Agreement was concluded. That's a good result. Today, too, a further step has been taken in the agreement reached by hospitals on healthier diets. That is also part of the Prevention Agreement. The Secretary of State has started to work quickly, full of ambition for a healthier society. Government, business and civil society are working together to reduce smoking, reduce overweight and obesity and reduce problematic alcohol consumption. Of course, this is first and foremost a responsibility of the people themselves, but it helps enormously if the environment is healthy and the environment also encourages people to make those healthy choices. Especially at this time of corona we all notice how vulnerable our health is. A healthy lifestyle cannot prevent corona, but if you get corona, it can dampen its effects. It is also crucial that we continue to pay attention to prevention. That is why I tabled an amendment on this subject together with GroenLinks. How do we keep care affordable? My group looks forward to the outline note of the directors, because the healthcare system is squeaking and cracking. I sincerely hope that prevention has a good place in that too. I would like to highlight another element which is important for the Christian Union at the moment, namely the testing of necessary care. This is one of the criteria, in addition to effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, on which care is assessed in the basic package. This is done by the Healthcare Institute. It is precisely in necessity that you also look at the context of care, the severity of the condition, the impact on one's social functioning and the scope of the responsibility of society. These kinds of considerations aren't exactly science. It would be good if such arguments were included in the advice of the Healthcare Institute. And it would be nice if the thresholds for public participation at the Zorginstituut were lowered, because it is very valuable if citizens each have a voice in the consideration of the Zorginstituut from their own context and experiences. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the Health Institute on organising this public participation? This budget debate is also a good time to zoom out and learn a few lessons from the corona crisis. There is a great deal to be said about it and everything has been put forward by other groups today. I have noted a few things that I can wholeheartedly endorse. The digital care that has gotten a huge boost, being less dependent on production in countries like India and China, and sustainability in healthcare. I can fully agree with that. But I would like to highlight two other issues myself. The Ministry has recently taken on tasks that normally lie with market players or other organisations. I am thinking of buying mouth caps and breathing equipment, but also of achieving sufficient test capacity. What lessons can the Minister draw from this kind of experience in view of the relationship between market and government in the care situation? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday the Minister tweeted enthusiastically, perhaps too enthusiasticly, that 4 January will start vaccination. We all benefit from a rapid and smooth process of vaccination, but what is the government's strategy to achieve this quick start? Is the Minister also open to vaccination for pharmacists, specifically in this corona crisis? How will communication with society take place? I deliberately say "communication" because I think it has to be two-way. People have questions, and those questions need to be answered. In the 21st century, there's really no more information. It has to be communication. Mr. Chairman. Then the cup of youth. We see feelings of loneliness not only among the elderly, but more and more among young people. There was another investigation today. I think that was the VNG's. I'm not quite sure. Yes, the Secretary of State nods. The VNG has carried out research and it shows that Corona also makes young people feel extremely lonely. What place does this have in the Secretary of State's policy? Is there gonna be a tooth in there, too? Mr. Chairman. I'll almost get to the end of it. Suicide prevention has a new national agenda for the coming years, which is being implemented with a growing group of organisations involved. The Christian Union wants to ensure the prevention of suicide as a public task. Is the Secretary of State prepared to explore with the Chamber and 113 Suicide Prevention how the legal anchoring can best be arranged? Finally. I think I've stayed neatly within the time. Today, the National Year of Volunteering started. The opening was made by Queen Máxima. A Twitter campaign has been launched under the hashtag #Humanizing Nederland. I think it's a very good initiative. Volunteers are valuable, for the sports club, in the churches, in nature management, as a debt buddy, in the nursing home. So my appeal would be to wholeheartedly support this. Maybe there are people among the viewers or among us who want to volunteer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u266	Thank you, Miss Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u267	Thank you, Mr President. I think I should have brought something tonight. I didn't stick to tradition. Maybe I'll bring something with me tomorrow. Of course, we can still do that. Maybe a organic apple or something of fruit to stay in the tradition of healthy food. I think that will fit well with my contribution tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u268	Last year or the year before, Mrs Ouwehand had an apple tree. It wasn't at VWS, it was at Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u269	I'm gonna go see if that apple tree's planted somewhere and I can take those apples tomorrow. You never know. Mr. Chairman. I'm starting my contribution. According to the Prime Minister, the Dutch healthcare system is among the best in the world. There's a lot to be said about that statement. People pay blue in bounty and their own risk. There's a chronic shortage of staff in care. They experience a high workload and are burdened with administrative burdens. Profits disappear in the pockets of health insurance companies and the pharmaceutical industry, while regional hospitals fall down. There are major problems in youth care and mental health care. The digitalisation of care is still a hole cheese with life-size privacy risks. About the last one later. The Prime Minister's ruling is mainly based on tunnel vision. After all, our country was far away from corona. The health of the population is undermined by commercial interests and a government that knowingly ignores and trivializes risks. Failure to act from the precautionary principle has brought us where we are now. You can see that very well from the healthcare system that we now have where we keep mopping with the tap open. The cabinet can now take action to reverse the tide. By focusing on prevention rather than healing, we reduce the risk of a new pandemic, improve basic health, prevent many new covid hospitalisations and reduce the burden and pressure on healthcare. Mr. Chairman. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u270	Me too. Mr. Veldman. It's just standing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u271	Here comes the six-foot interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u272	Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u273	Mrs. Van Esch says a lot of things. There were a lot of things that I think its eyebrows are going up. Let me take out one thing: the profits disappear in the pockets of the health insurance companies. I don't think health insurance companies make a profit. If they were gonna make a profit, I'd be wondering what bags it's gonna disappear in. In my opinion, health insurance companies spend that money again. In fact, we have seen in recent years that health insurance companies spend more than they get money and thus interne on their reserves. Could Mrs Van Esch call me a couple of health insurance companies who have distributed profits if they were to make a profit? That can also be one health insurance company. They don't make those profits, but can you name one that paid out those profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u274	It's about how we set up our healthcare system. I think I can look on the left side of the Chamber at several parties who have indicated that they do not want our healthcare system to be fixed on all those different health insurers. They're yelling and yelling again to get new customers in, because that's how it's done. I think the SP already indicated that it is going to be less €5 to switch to another health insurance company. My specific sentence was focused on the fact that we constantly organise our care in that way, on the idea that you have to constantly switch and that you don't just go for the right care and the right way. That is why we have already supported and continue to support the National Health Fund of the SP in our previous election programme. We believe that this is the best way to organise care, and that is what we are sticking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u275	We may rightly disagree about the design of our healthcare system, but it helps in discussing these differences to just stick to the facts. It would be a credit to Mrs Van Esch if she kept to the facts. It would adorn the Party for the Animals if they kept to the facts. No profit disappears in the health insurance companies' pockets. Healthcare insurers don't pay out profits, even more so, they don't even make profits. I'd like that to be noted here. It does not help in the discussion of how we keep our concerns as close as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u276	Nor does it adorn the VVD to not have the facts on the table In the interruption that the Party just did for the Animals, for example, the VVD indicated that it would necessarily be necessary to have sugar in bread. I wonder if you've ever baked bread. I do, and I've never had to use sugar for that. So I would also like it if the VVD had its facts in order. Sugar is not necessary for bread at all. You can just use yeast, flour and water for that. You can bake beautiful loaves of bread. So there is no need for sugar for that at all. I would like the VVD to do so and not be guided by the sugar industry, which seems to already have you in their pocket. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to talk about zoonoses, to mention just one topic tonight. I wanted to focus on reducing the risk of a future pandemic. In our dealings with animals there are dangers that we cannot overlook. The massive scale on which we keep, transport and slaughter animals increases the risk of virus outbreaks in humans. 75% of the new infectious diseases that threaten people are a disease that jumps from animal to human, a zoonoses. Scientists have been warning about it for years. It was not the question whether the world would be affected by a new, contagious virus, but when. It was corona. I'm afraid it won't be just this pandemic. If we continue in this way, we will face an era in which viruses will spread more quickly, where pandemics will follow each other faster and the consequences will increase. Experts warned about this recently again in a UN report. However, the Ministry of Agriculture is committed to maintaining the mass and opening export markets for Dutch meat, dairy and eggs. It is committed to keeping breeding markets open to keep the foreign livestock industry going. For that we have 100 million chickens and 12 million pigs on a ticking time bomb. The U.S. Department can solve it if it goes wrong, if an animal disease skips people. But our legal instruments to intervene as a precaution, from the precautionary point of view, when it threatens to go wrong in livestock farming are not in order. If we wait until there is a proven serious risk to public health, it is too late. That's exactly what we learned from the Q-fever crisis. But in the corona crisis we still see that the risks in mink breeding have been underestimated over and over again. The situation always turned out to be worse than we thought. Now the cabinet has brought forward the ban on mink breeding, which had already been foreseen. But what if this was about poultry farming? I would therefore ask the Minister: who can we hold politically responsible if a new infectious disease which is dangerous to humans arises in the Dutch livestock sector? Mr. Chairman. We're moving on to agricultural poison. I would like to mention another example which shows that, if there is no intervention, the US Department will be able to clean up the mess of agricultural policy: pesticides. The Health Council warned again this year about the health risks of agricultural poison. Research shows that there is a blanket of toxins over the Netherlands. Around the bulb fields it appears that neighbors are extra exposed to agricultural poison. It's on their doormat, in the air around their house and even in their babies' diapers. We're gonna breathe that shit in and we're gonna eat it. On strawberries, 38 different pesticides were found. Can the Minister for Medical Care confirm that currently for the authorisation of substances is not standard tested on 1. the harmfulness to the immune system 2. the harmfulness to the nervous system in development and 3. for hormone disturbance? What does she think if she doesn't? Can this Minister and her colleague from LNV at European level argue in favour of including these three types of tests in the standard requirements of the authorisation procedures for all pesticides? I'm curious about her reaction. Mr. Chairman. As you are used to me, I naturally continue on the subject of unhealthy nutrition. Even before the corona epidemic, our society became increasingly sickened by a dormant epidemic. Half of all adults in the Netherlands are overweight. The proportion of obese adults has doubled over the last 30 years. Over 1.2 million Dutch people have type 2 diabetes. In case of a COVID-19 infection, these people get to intensive care faster, because their immune system is weakened. At least one in three victims on the ICU is seriously overweight. Where the whole of society is taking the lead to relieve care as much as possible, food giants who sell their unhealthy junk for a few euros can continue to do so. Albert Heijn's parent company saw its profits double in the second quarter of 2020, from EUR 434 million to almost EUR 700 million, and even paid EUR 220 million extra to its shareholders. But an extra contribution by reducing the percentage of unhealthy products on the shelves or by stopping offering kilo-bulls or sugar bombs, ho! At the beginning of his term, the Secretary of State of the United States had a good ambition for the Prevention Agreement, but those ambitions were really smashed in the bud by the food industry. The result is a compromise that we are not going to achieve. "Not achieving the goals" I did not come up with myself, I say again to Mr Veldman of the VVD; that is what the Secretary of State of VWS himself says in connection with research by the RIVM. In practice, the agreement mainly acts as an advertising leaflet for industry. It's supposed to be an ambition show, but in reality the earning model wins. The more people eat sugar, fat and kilobulbs and the more kids start smoking and drinking, the better it is for their wallet. Business as usual. The Animal Party wants to see an end to the negotiations with market parties about our health. Corona would have been the perfect opportunity to say: to here and no further. The importance of a healthy lifestyle and therefore of a healthy food environment has never been greater than today. Dozens of doctors and scientists have therefore repeatedly asked the cabinet for this in recent months. Unfortunately, if you look more closely, you will see the truth. In our healthcare budget of 86.7 billion, the cabinet spends only a few millions on prevention. If we continue along this road, more people will become ill every year, the costs will continue to rise and we will continue to ask a lot of our healthcare workers, as we are doing now, which is really too much. The solutions are just there. Report after report concludes: enter tax on junk food, enter the sugar tax, make healthy food cheaper, ensure that fruit and vegetables go to a VAT rate of 0%, prohibit advertising for unhealthy food and stop all child marketing. Just start with that today. It's possible. It's available. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. One more point about the privacy in the care, I had already announced it. There is an overconfident techno-enthusiasm among the directors. Minister De Jonge presents one technology plan after another, to put it that way, and the Minister for Medical Care even wants to digitize the entire care. This while the supervisor, the Dutch Data Protection Authority, says that the delay they have is laughably large. Then how does the Secretary of State for Medical Care intend to do this? How does she ensure that the supervisor can watch when the delay is so ridiculously large? The concern is now the sector with the most data leaks every year. The digital infrastructure of the National Disability Point with which the Minister wishes to digitize is still based on the same holes cheese that was referred to the trash by the First Chamber in 2011. It is an infrastructure that makes possible mistakes that should not be possible at all. How is the current line of exclusive focus on the National Switchpoint compatible with the adopted Teunissen motion from the First Chamber on decentralised access to the medical file? What has the Minister done since 2016 to make decentralised alternatives possible outside the National Switchpoint? I wonder if she can make that concrete. Mr. Chairman. I come to a close; one more sentence on techno-enthusiasm. The Animal Party calls on the Minister not to push through the digitisation of care until the basis is in order and so long as we are not sure that the supervisor can watch closely. Mr. Chairman. Well, let's get to the bottom of this. Corona pushed all of us right into the facts. The outbreak is no surprise. It is an inherent risk of dealing with animals. As long as we continue on the current road, we will face new epidemics. That is why I would like to stress once again to the Ministers and the Secretary of State: do not allow our public health to be hijacked by the interests of intensive livestock farming and the food industry. Be ahead of those risks. Take it, now it's possible, before it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u277	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP. I see you have a large piece of paper with you. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u278	Mr. Chairman. I wasn't going to take all of that, but when everyone here started handing out presents I didn't realize it was packing day I thought: I always bring some reading food, I can hand it out to the rulers too, in a moment. But that will come in the course of the argument. It is in line with my text. When Mrs Van den Berg also started with a beautiful quote.... I did not know that was the intention, today... about Augustine and the time................................................................................................................................................... This quote will come back in almost every book about time. It's a little complicated, but he's actually saying, you think you know it, but why don't you explain it, and it'll show you how hard it is to say it. That's what I actually feel about care quality. You know what it is, you see it happen, that love, that time, that attention. But if you want to explain what it is, do you think, is this it all? But one thing we do know with each other, namely that we have all been impressed recently, over the last few weeks, and are also impressed by the way those doctors, those nurses, who cared, but also those people in the supportive professions, cleaners, all those people who were active in the care, have shown and still show quality care. We are also aware that these words of appreciation mean that we must commit ourselves to making that work more attractive in the care sector. Too many people leave care too soon. Better working conditions, so, a fair starting salary, perspective on career development. But also: more room for care professionals, less control pressure. It would be a good thing if we could also ask ourselves whether certain protocols and rules which have now been temporarily repealed should actually come back. Wasn't it very useful to see, when it really came to it, where it was good without it? Is that battle still being made? The corona crisis also puts a strong line under the importance of family care, volunteering, neighborly assistance. This informal care is already mentioned earlier today, however, is under pressure. Fewer and fewer people have or make time for this. At the beginning of this year, Clémence Ross' report, nationwide driver respite care, was published on a breathing break for people who take long-term care of someone. Her conclusion was: support for family care by municipalities is often still inadequate. My question is what is happening with this in practice. How can access to this grace care be improved? How can we spread these good examples even better? Is my old neighbor gonna notice, who took care of his sick wife for a long time and actually didn't realize until almost the last day that she was a caretaker herself, who just said, "I'm a caretaker for my wife"? Will all these beautiful projects and plans be put into practice by the people? Mr President, that is the first present. It's called "If the cloak doesn't fit anymore... Tighten up." I thought I'd surprise you and send it to the Secretary of State. Because you sometimes forget that even people who need mental care are given very intensive care. So I'd like to give this to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Corona policy aims to protect vulnerable people and older people from the virus. That's good. We support that. At the same time, we have often discussed here in debates how to prevent so much collateral damage being caused. Do we realise enough what all the limitations mean for people in mental health care, disability care and youth care and what it does with our mental well-being? My question is whether the cabinet also identifies the long-term consequences of public health measures, including to learn from them for the future. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is also a period in which we as a society suddenly and massively face suffering, death. People had to make far-reaching decisions in a short time: whether or not hospitalization, whether or not treatment? I notice that when we talk about the end of life in the Chamber, Mrs Dik-Faber mentioned that even if it is a quick euthanasia, it is a self-chosen end of life, but little about the natural, the ordinary death. There is a great deal of unfamiliarity in society with the process of dying. Sometimes people think that a natural death always brings with it unbearable suffering. It is good to indeed have an eye for what the National Expertise Centre Die has put forward on this subject. I ask Mrs Dik-Faber how the Minister can support this initiative and whether it can be considered whether general practitioners have enough time and space to have a good conversation about the end of life and the choices that need to be made. Then I'll come to my second present. That is the magazine Zorg van de Nederlandse Patienten Vereniging, with by the way the picture of Mr Schnabel on the front. That is also interesting, what he says exactly about the care as the money vacuum cleaner of politics. Mrs. Agema doesn't agree with that, but that's what he's saying. I was therefore concerned that I thought it was a good example of how the end of life is being discussed and what points are being made about it. Maybe just as a practical example. It's a thin one, but this minister has a lot to read.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u279	Who's this for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u280	For the Minister De Jonge of VWS. I hear the minister say something about someone from D66 being at the top of the magazine. The miracles aren't over yet, Minister. In order not to have too many interruptions in my text, I would also like to add the present for the other minister. That fits in with this. I've been showing it to you for a while. It's also about that fitting care in the final phase of life: Not everything that can be done needs to be done. This is an initiative of a steering committee set up by the KNMG, the Medical Federation. I am very interested to hear whether such important studies, points of interest, are being carried forward in practice. We always say we need to know what we're doing. This brings us back to all sorts of new studies. I support that, too. We need to know what we're doing, but are we doing what we know? It seems as if it sometimes goes wrong there, that we are constantly holding on to all the wonderful results of projects, pilots, which I was just talking about. This is also important in the transition to a new cabinet period. It should not only be about new plans and ideas, but also about putting what we have tracked into practice. Mr. Chairman. I'm out of presents. I'm going to the final part of my text now. Let's talk about unintended pregnancy. What about the funding of the online help line that choice help providers have, I ask the Secretary of State. I was sorry to hear that these more innovative methods are difficult to finance in practice. What's the deal with that, exactly? In the area of suicide prevention, I tabled an amendment together with Mrs Dik-Faber to promote scientific research in this area. We hope for a positive response to our amendment. Mr. Chairman. My final point may be a very specific point, but it touched me. I would have liked to have mentioned that here. Sometimes there may be strange outcomes of apparent improvements. The European Union has set certain quality criteria for the use of implants, hygiene requirements, but this has strange consequences. I spoke to someone who has a rare eye disease and uses certain contact lenses. It's a very small production. It's about a few dozen people. These lenses must therefore no longer be supplied according to European standards, because they cannot meet these requirements. Someone who has a huge benefit from these particular lenses runs the risk of not being able to get it anymore. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Isn't there some kind of hardness clause or something for that? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u281	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u282	Mr. Chairman. From the group of DENK no books or presents but hopefully a good input that the ministers and the Secretary of State can do with. Mr. Chairman. Fair and balanced care for every Dutchman, a healthcare system in which equality, accessibility and solidarity are key concepts, a resilient care system that can cope with any crisis; in itself, despite the cabinet policy of the past period, not only of this cabinet but also of previous Cabinets, we have a great concern. We owe this to all those people who work with passion in care. To get through to the VVD, I will speak in company terms: the current healthcare system is bankrupt. I said it today in an interruption to the colleague of the VVD: these ministers and Secretary of State continue to breed on a spoiled egg. For eggs that lie under a brooding them for more than 33 days must be removed. They don't come true anymore. Often these eggs are spoiled and full of bacteria that can cause all kinds of trouble. We see that trouble in the care. Since the introduction of the perverse system of market operation, health insurers and healthcare providers have started to behave like companies. The result: the affordability of care is under increasing pressure. The workload of care workers is unprecedented. In the boardrooms and boardrooms, the conversation is almost always about money, money and money. The actual care time decreases while premiums increase year by year and their own risk is sky high. And the human size is increasingly disappearing into the background. DENK really thinks this can and should be different. The cabinet has to stop breeding on a rotten egg. The system must serve man again instead of the other way around. We need to put more trust in the care professionals and really change the system. Care must be resilient and flexible in order to adapt to the constantly changing reality. This does not require competition but more cooperation and adaptability. Mr. Chairman. During the first wave of the corona pandemic, the Prime Minister told them to make 100% of the decisions with 50% of the information. We are now eight months further into the crisis. In the meantime, a lot of research has been done and much more information. But the policy is still moving at the initial 50% of the information. A good example is really testing policy. I don't want to leave that unnamed today. From the start, Dutch testing policy has been very focused on hospital labs, i.e. small-scale specialist laboratories. Soon it was clear that the processing of tens of thousands of tests per day grew above these laboratories. And yet the minister continued to build on these hospital laboratories. In April, the Ministry received an offer to process 60,000 corona tests daily, but that offer was rejected by the Minister because he felt that there was sufficient testing capacity. The unused test capacity then led to the unnoticed spread of corona, including in the very vulnerable nursing homes. Minister De Jonge was given the opportunity in June to correct his misjudgement when he was offered for the second time to expand large-scale testing capacity in the Netherlands, but again nothing was done about it. The minister continued to breed on a spoiled egg. The lack of tests then contributed to something that everyone wanted to avoid, the second wave. Long waiting times led to a declining willingness to test among citizens and commercial test streets jumped into the gap left by the Minister, test streets whose quality is uncertain and whose positive test figures are not always passed on to the GGDs. It was only when things really went wrong that the minister quickly bought 317 million euros of foreign testing capacity from the labs they rejected in the months before. Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid it's not gonna end here. To this day, the Minister continues to ignore the advice of the OMT or the RIVM with seemingly great ease. Experts have been saying for months that ventilation is the biggest culprit for the spread of the virus, but the minister continues to stare to death on mouth masks and a poorly functioning app. Here too, the minister continues to breed on a spoiled egg. The Minister's statements about the vaccination obligation also show that he is not listening enough to his surroundings. Through the Chamber it is stipulated that there will be no direct or indirect corona vaccination obligation due to the Azarkan motion. However, I am surprised that the Minister has made statements in recent years that show that he does not respect the choice made by the Chamber. This room is democratic. No obligation is therefore not an obligation, without a "yes, but" or a "what as in the future." It is time for the Minister to clarify once and for all the implementation of the vaccination strategy. On 4 January, the Minister wants to start vaccination, but there is still no clear vaccination strategy. It's already chaos, without just one more vaccination. Family doctors and nursing homes are already resisting. That's weird, right? In our neighbouring countries, Germany and Great Britain, governments have long and wide-rangingly made their plans public. For example, 60 large vaccination centres are planned in Germany. In England, from 1 December, at 1,200 locations, general practitioners will be ready to give vaccinations seven days a week. The Minister has been working on the vaccination strategy since the summer and it is already early December. I ask the Minister: where is the implementation plan of the Dutch vaccination strategy? Take away the chaos in the Netherlands. For the time being, it seems that the Minister considers the setting up of test streets or the hiring of sports halls to be premature. The minister seems to be serving the Netherlands another weak bite. This to the great displeasure of the chairman of the CNV, among others, who fears that the Netherlands will come after the facts again if we do not put in place an effective implementation plan in line with our neighbouring countries. Is the Minister prepared to learn from the failed test policy? Is he willing to act decisively now? Don't keep nesting on a spoiled egg. Mr. Chairman. Also the sounds from the care seem to leave the Minister structurally out. The caregivers have been calling for the abolition of unnecessary registration for years, so that more time can be spent on patients. And yet there is no mention of this in the budget. At least, briefly. In order to cope with the corona crisis, but also to better organise the healthcare system in general, we need to work together with experts and professionals, the people who are close to the fire. The national prevention fund should therefore be reviewed annually in cooperation with experts and professionals, but also coordinated with countries from the European Union in order to test its feasibility. If we work actively with our neighbouring countries, we can also respond to acute shortages in healthcare. We've seen that over the past few years. In 20222, the Office's Work in Care Action Programme expects a deficit of about 80,000 healthcare professionals. We should therefore appeal to foreign countries. In connection with corona, cooperation has already been stepped up, but in one area this cooperation is not going well. That's knowledge migration. For a few people here in the Chamber, immigration is a dirty word, but we can't escape it. DENK believes that this really needs to be agreed on a structural basis. There is a need to learn more from cross-border practices. In order to cope with future peaks in the pressure of care, emergency plans must also be made, so that, for example, if there is an acute shortage of ic-beds, the Dutch can move quickly to Germany, Belgium or Luxembourg. We need to be optimally prepared both in front and in the back for the enormous challenge that the care is facing. Mr. Chairman. More than half of the health care workers are already suffering from a high workload and are working themselves into a burn-out. This will increase the lack of care. In order to take the pressure off the boiler, DENK wants more care to be provided from the patient's own familiar environment. For example, the Professional Care Institute, VZI, successfully trained, trained and deployed people in Rotterdam as well-paid care providers to their relatives, friends or neighbors who have a home-care indication. DENK thinks this is a good initiative and would like to see greater use made of it, but also that creative and sustainable solutions are constantly being sought to combat this shortage of staff in healthcare. This requires a joint commitment and intensive cooperation between all concerned parties in the care sector, in which the Minister has an important role to play. Mr. Chairman. A fashion word that is subject to inflation in politics is "tailor-made care." However, this is hardly associated with what DENK has been committed to since its inception, namely culturally sensitive care. The CBS statistics indicate that half of the inhabitants of large cities have a non-Western background. This requires a care approach that takes cultural aspects and backgrounds into account. Clients who sometimes need help in a slightly different way. For example, clients with dementia often fall back on the language of their youth. Where it is quite normal for people with a western background that parents go to a nursing home, that is often not an option at all for many people with a migration background. Caring is often the only option, resulting in overload and all the adverse consequences. DENK actually regrets that the budget does not address culturally sensitive concerns. No, the Minister is shifting responsibility by giving a modest tip to the Pharos Foundation. Every year we read that back when we ask written questions about it: we give a grant to the Pharos Foundation. That's 4.5 million out of a billion dollars. Then the booth is ticked off and the reports of Pharos disappear in the drawer. There are action plans on everything, but when it comes to culturally sensitive care: no way! According to this minister who, like me, lives in the most diverse city in the Netherlands, is not hip, while so much more is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u283	I would say to Mr Kuzu: better half an egg than an empty shell. Certainly not everything is in Rotterdam, and you certainly didn't crawl out of an egg, but I would like to ask what you mean specifically by this culturally sensitive concern. For you can say that everything is not settled in this country and that nothing is good, but I would like to hear from you what you mean by that specifically and how we can contribute from this Chamber to make it better for this particular group of older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u284	I have just given some answers to this in my contribution. Certain diseases mean that people, for example, when they are demented, fall into the language of their youth. This requires a slightly different approach from the one normally used. If we say that in the care the wishes and demands of the client are central, then we should not be surprised when an older person demands that something else is not handled with eating habits, that something else is being dealt with with in a nursing home. These are all things that we often talk about, but that is exactly my point in the direction of the Minister: when we talk about culturally sensitive care, you say in this Chamber, at least, almost all the parties say that you think this is important, but then we give a sum of 4.6 million to Pharos Foundation to do research and map out all kinds of things. I appreciate that very much, but it is also time for the items appearing in Pharos reports to be carried out as well. It's gonna take more than that. I would like to take advantage of a budget such as today's to really do more about it. Let me give you an example; then I will serve Mrs Laan entirely. A report by Pharos published in 2018 shows that non-Western elderly people are less using home care. Different thresholds are mentioned to use home care, including communication and insufficient connection of care provision to needs. Healthcare providers that do meet those needs are once again faced with different thresholds by health insurers. So we keep the system closed and say to a whole group of people: figure it out yourself. We shouldn't have that. Mr. Chairman. Even when we look at the corona approach, we see that many opinions and prevention campaigns are too general. Translated documents still fail to reach the other speakers. DENK therefore calls for a structural commitment to culturally sensitive care and for funds to be made available in the budget for this purpose. In view of the changing demand for care, care training should also be improved with a view to culturally sensitive care. In this way we can ensure that the quality of care and the quality of life for everyone in the Netherlands is improved. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a very important point as far as the group of DENK is concerned: control of behavior, by a part of this Chamber also referred to as "betutteling." More prevention to promote people's health and well-being where necessary is mentioned in the budget as a central focus area. The budget also states that the demand for care by, among other things, increasing the number of people with lifestyle-related diseases will increase significantly, 50% of Dutch adults are overweight and only 49% of the Dutch population comply with the movement guidelines. With corona in mind and therefore the knowledge that the situation could deteriorate at any time, isn't it incredible that only 380 million will go to sport in 2021, about 165 million less than in the current year? And then a large part of it goes to the top sport and not to the people who really need to be encouraged to move. A party like the Sports Alliance and moving for anyone who is committed to people who experience practical and financial obstacles to sports, gets a lousy tip. Only 3.3 million will be made available for a positive sport culture, but there will be 41 million euros for top sport, a ratio of one to thirteen. Unbelievable. DENK proposes to allocate more money to sport and also to use a larger proportion of the sports budget to make sports accessible and attractive to those who need it most, for example by arranging sports meet-ups for all people diagnosed with obesity. A second way of controlling behaviour is to encourage and discourage products. This should be better balanced as far as DENK is concerned. The National Prevention Agreement states a number of things about how we are going to discourage unhealthy products such as alcohol and soft drugs. However, we do not see how the Minister intends to encourage the use of healthy products such as fruit and vegetables. According to the CBS, the prices of fruit and vegetables have increased by 20% over the last ten years. With this, it has experienced the greatest increase in all categories of food. At the cash register, it's always cheap to win healthy. DENK therefore wants a drastic reduction in VAT on fruit and vegetables. DENK also wants the cabinet to take stricter action against recreational use of nitrous oxide. The number of nitrous-related road accidents has increased tenfold over the last three years. Use is still increasing in popularity. One in five young adults indicates the use of nitrous oxide. Those are bizarre numbers. And to think, the promotion of nitrous oxide on social media is on the rise. There really should be a zero tolerance policy here. DENK calls for a complete ban on the promotion of nitrous oxide via social media channels and wants this to be maintained. We also want a total ban on consumer nitrous oxide. Finally, DENK proposes to launch an immediate investigation to find out how non-medical nitrous oxide use can be traced. This investigation has never been done before. However, research into the medical use of nitrous oxide already shows that nitrous oxide can sometimes be detectable in urine for 18 hours. That's a nice hook for research into non-medical nitrous oxide use. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in the limited time I have left, I would like to raise the question of the affordability of care. Care premiums have increased by more than €400 per person over the last six years. The trend scenario is that healthcare expenditure will double over the next 20 years under unchanged policies. That is what DENK is about, but in order for us to reduce the cost of care, we need to redesign the system. That is why I would really like to give these three leaders in the last year of the Rutte III cabinet: stop brooding on a spoiled egg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u285	I'm in a mood for you how many times you've called it! Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS. How many minutes do you have, Mrs. Sazias?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u286	Mr President, it says here 35 minutes, but it was the other way around. But don't be afraid; I'm not going to finish 53 minutes. A lot of people came here today with presents. I only have a drop for you if you like it. That's something. A Stop cover. Mr. Chairman. This is the last VWS budget of this cabinet. Time to get back to the coalition agreement, see what has come of it. The coalition agreement says that there will be no new system during this period. After all, you have to try something first to see if it works. But in the meantime, this cabinet has come to the following statement on page 13 of the budget: "The realization that change in care is needed is becoming more and more obvious. Shortcuts on the labour market and rising healthcare costs mean that we have to move on to a new way of looking at care and how we work on this (together) and take the direction as a cabinet to make this necessary transition possible." Well. Nor do the conclusions of the Central Planning Office lie, five years after the decentralisations. The Participation Act has failed and youth care in the municipalities has resulted in a tragedy. Too many children have to wait far too long for the right care and often they don't get it at all. Light help questions are given priority, because they are cheaper to solve, and children with complex problems are sent from the cabinet to the wall. Minister De Jonge's intervention in youth care does not go far enough as far as 50PLUS is concerned. In particular, the youth ggz must be removed as soon as possible from the municipalities and reorganised more centrally. The Dutch Healthcare Authority and the Health Care Institute also warn that care is in danger of becoming priceless. That's because, among other things, our entire care system is built around treatment. Making production generates money and disease is a billion-dollar business. We've got to get that stimulus out. How does the Minister see that? It was also intended that nonsensical care should be dealt with. The Court of Auditors concluded in a report that the current programmes to address the nonsense of care do not work. That was illustrated this morning by the story of Mr Veldman's mother. And this is exactly one of the ways to curb the cost of care. How does the Minister think this could be done better? All critics also say that there is far too little attention to prevention. I will come back to that in a moment. Even inside the Wmo, things aren't going the way they should. Many people cannot find their way in this and the idea that neighbourhood teams themselves would actively seek out vulnerable people does not come off the ground. The funding of the district teams is unclear and the differences per municipality remain too large. For example, a help dog, who can make a world of difference in terms of self-reliance, is not reimbursed in Amsterdam, but in Nieuwegein. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, that is an unfair and unreasonable difference. The Health Inspectorate also notes significant differences in the cooperation between the general practitioner and the care department in different regions. Even though the involvement of these caregivers is high, they don't know where to find each other. Such consultation of course also takes time and space, and this is not always possible because of the strict requirements of the health insurance provider. One of the recommendations of the IGJ is that general practitioners and home care organisations should agree on a care programme for vulnerable elderly people and that the health insurance provider should provide funding. What does the Minister think of this recommendation and does he intend to discuss it with those concerned and with health insurers? Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement also contains a separate heading of care for the elderly. That sounded promising, of course, but what was made of it? In the coalition agreement, it can be read that elderly people who can't make it back home should be able to count on a place in the nursing home. During this cabinet period, the waiting lists did not decrease, but increased. 50PLUS wants the minister to take the lead here. How is he going to ensure that binding agreements are reached with municipalities and care institutions in order to achieve more nursing homes as soon as possible? Older people must be able to count on good care and support for their carers. There is also a lot of work to be done here, because carers still do not get the right support everywhere. I'll come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. Home care's having a hard time in the second corona wave. Again, there is little attention to that, because most of the attention goes to the hospitals. That is wrong, because home care is indispensable for many people. Especially for single people, sometimes they're the only people they see. Home care is not only there for the caring tasks, but also for attention. And there's just so little time for that. How is the Minister going to attract home care in the short term? Self-direction with the help of family care sounds very nice, but there are fewer and fewer carers and they are becoming more and more overburdened. There is insufficient grace care to relieve the burden on the carers and then there is also a reduction in the indications for home care. That's how we spin in circles in the mess. We need carers and we know that in the future there will only be fewer carers, while there will be more carers. Especially care for someone with dementia is very heavy. The pressure on carers only got worse during the corona crisis, because the daily spending was scaled down. And daily spending is the most important way to relieve the caregiver. If you need to be alert 24/7 and watch out, those few hours a day that you don't have to take care of are indispensable. But intensive accommodation is also important. Imagine if you wanted to spend a few days at your daughter's, a few hundred miles away, you could do it with that intensive sleepover care. This is very important, but many carers do not even know that there is grace care. In addition, it is not available enough. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, gratuitous care is the most important support available for carers and this is much more useful than a gift or a party once a year. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, therefore, the budget for grace care should be increased and this form of care should become much more active. As far as we are concerned, this budget is also earmarked, so that we know for sure that it really ends up there. We have tabled an amendment on this matter. The target benefit to sixteen municipalities for the programme One against loneliness shows two things. Firstly, it shows that the implementation of this is indeed local customization. We also see that this target benefit has led to a huge boost in the policies of those sixteen municipalities. 50PLUS often pleads for goal benefits, because if you tag money, you know that it ends up right where you want it. My question to the Minister is whether he is going to extend the target benefit for One against loneliness to all the municipalities. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also notes that the three laws are being implemented too narrowly from the Ministry. The municipalities will then have to put these laws into practice again. These divisions confuse policy and often cause problems not to be addressed in their entirety, and that was the intention, because one problem often lies at the root of the other. That integral look leaves a lot to be desired. In a kitchen table conversation there is often a Wmo consultant who has insufficient insight into the problems of other tubes, such as addiction and debt relief. The Bos Committee advises that all care for home residents should be left to the health insurance company and the municipality and that the Wlz should not enter until someone is admitted to an institution. That's how you take one shot away from the room. What does the Minister think of that proposal? The magic word of the past few years is cooperation. The corona crisis has also shown the need for this. But this system, based on market forces and competition, is counterproductive. Healthcare insurers will sit on the paramedic's seat. According to the Forest Committee, the main cause is the contracts of the health insurance companies. Does the Minister agree with us that a health care provider should not be about a prescription, a medicine or anything else? If he agrees, is he going to appeal to the health insurance companies? Due to the corona crisis, the debate on the public sector has become even more heated. More and more the question arises as to whether care is not a public matter. One of the good things of the Minister for Medical Care is the intention to turn ambulance provision into a non-economic service of general interest. According to the Council of State, there's a bottleneck in funding. It remains unchanged through health insurers, with the RAVs at financial risk in providing care. So the bottleneck can be solved when the Empire takes over the funding. Is that what the Minister's gonna do this time? Do you not think that the whole concern should be looked at with a view of non-economic interest? The corona crisis has taught us that our care system is not really able to cope with a crisis. The impact of efficiency on care in recent years is now taking its toll. Caregivers walk on their gums and decide to leave care because the workload is too high. The salary's too low. They also lack autonomy. There aren't enough Ice Beds. Then we depend on the good will of Germany. Corona has changed the whole world and led to many new insights, including the need for rural direction. It is also needed when it comes to living and housing arrangements for senior citizens. Isn't the polder model a little overshot when it comes to care? Municipalities often don't even have a living vision. It just doesn't come off the ground. These rulers want to leave a lot to the field, so we see a lot of talk groups, consultation tables, action plans, which look beautiful on paper but beaches in execution. Mr. Chairman. Would the Minister know that he is called Minister's Action Plan in the field? Because in recent years, we have been faced with this on many occasions. It sounds very active, but there's been a lot of talk. It is excellent to listen to the field, because that is where the expertise is, but the government has to give it a slap and say: okay, when we've heard everything we're going that way or that way. Now it's stuck way too much in the field. Market forces are hitting it. Mr. Chairman. I'm in need of prevention. That's where the future of care lies. It is one of the most important ways of curbing ever-increasing healthcare costs. It reduces drug use, reduces care demand and makes people feel healthier and fitter. Unfortunately, now it is not attractive for health insurers and healthcare providers to invest in prevention. I've already pointed it out: disease is money. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the Prevention Agreement is a first step, but it is far from enough to make sure that prevention really does work. Prevention must be fully anchored in both healthcare training and throughout the healthcare system. It should be interesting for healthcare providers and health insurers to invest in health. I would like to hear from the Minister how we make it interesting for health insurers and healthcare providers to invest in health. The Prevention Agreement has been signed by more than 70 parties. Of course, that's very nice, but if you have to keep everyone happy, you can't really go through with it. And when you sit at the table with the soft drinks industry, everyone understands that there is no sugar tax coming out of such a conversation, while there is more and more support for such a measure. I read another article this morning: there's a quarter of sugar in baby cookies. You can ask the supermarkets very kindly to make healthy food the norm, but they just don't. Here, too, more national direction is required. 50PLUS finds it incomprehensible that the sugar tax has not yet been introduced, especially in view of the success in the United Kingdom. Our RIVM also sees it as a possible addition to the fight against obesity. Recently, the media read that the sugar tax was finally taken out under pressure from the VVD. And yet the Secretary of State thought it was a good idea. So why don't we introduce the tax after all? I'd like a response. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, therefore, much more attention is paid to prevention. Moving is an integral part of this for young and old, I also say to Mrs Diertens. The neighborhood sports coaches do very good work, but that's what they do especially for young people. It would be very good if they were also more committed to the elderly. Taking a stroll around the neighborhood works preventively for physical disorders and also works against loneliness. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to use extra on community sports coaches for the elderly? Another important form of prevention is the use of vitamin D. We have talked about it before and we keep talking about it because it is important. A deficiency is associated with a deterioration in the course of a corona infection and it appears to reduce the risk of intestinal cancer. Vitamin D has been taken out of the basic package to reduce healthcare costs. After research by Vektis, it appears that we are exactly 5 million more expensive because doctors often prescribe more expensive medicines. So that cut didn't work. Once again, I would urge the Minister to reverse this decision, because without prescription, drug loyalty is much less, but above all because lack of vitamin D causes fragile bones. A hip surgery after a fall costs many times more money than vitamin D. So that's penny wise, pound foolish, and no sensible concern. Mr. Chairman. One in three elderly people living at home with home care is malnourished. And once you're malnourished, it takes a lot of effort to get your strength back. The muscles lose their strength and fall incidents are lurking. The Sub-Nutrition Steering Group warns about this. Here too, prevention can be very effective. Now the neighborhood nurse is deployed when someone is already malnourished. She'll come with a nutritious drink. But 50PLUS wants to prevent this from happening. We believe that this task should be laid down in the context of home care. We can do that at level one. A clean house is important, but good food is at least as important. How does the Minister see this? Is he prepared to integrate this into the task of home care? Now it's not. Now a home care worker has to ask the management if she's allowed to put on a sandwich for the lady. And sometimes it takes weeks for her to know. Another important aspect in preventing excessive care costs and loneliness is the possibility of living close together. The organisation of affordable housing arrangements comes from the ground but not from the ground. It takes at least eight years to organize such a Knarrenhof. Municipalities are difficult because they prefer to sell their land to commercial developers. Given the financial situation of the municipalities, this is sometimes understandable. Recently we received an email from a young woman who moved in to take care of her grandfather. After the death of her grandfather, she was told that she had to leave the house without being offered her replacement living space. The co-hire can only be applied for after two years. So when you give up your own home to move in with your family care client, and it dies within the next two years, you're just gonna be evicted. This could be prevented by an official family care certificate. For example, a person can easily prove to be a caregiver. At the very least, replacement housing should be offered. I know that this covers three portfolios, namely SZW, VWS and Home Affairs. The government wants 50% more care to be organised in its own environment in 2030 rather than in healthcare institutions, along with the network of people. That means that these three portfolios really need to be in consultation. Also nursing home places really need a lot more. In particular, there is a need to invest in care support and, therefore, in retirement care and day-to-day spending. Then there is the national dementia strategy. It sets out the target that 80% of home residents will have access to a meeting centre by 2030. Then I think of Sjaak and John, who recently told on television that during the corona period they didn't know what to do without their community center, where they went to pool three or four times a week with their neighborhood friends. I think their wives also miss it very much that these men are three or four times a week away. These meeting centres are extremely important for people with dementia as well as their caregivers. I've been seeing Mrs Bergkamp for a while, so before I go any further...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u287	Well, that's not so bad. If you'll just finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u288	Yeah, but then there'll be another line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u289	I was incredibly handcuffed to listen. I still have a lot of questions about the previous point, namely the family care passport. You were just talking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u290	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u291	Is there also a legal recognition of this? You say that people who give such a care passport to the municipality have a longer right to stay, for example, in the nursing home. I wondered when interpreting the amendment whether there was any legal effect in it. Is that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u292	He'll come after. He should come after that. First of all, it is already very difficult for carers to prove to municipalities, but also to other institutions, that they are carers. If we start now with such an official family policy, then we would very much like to see a number of things legally attached to it. For example, if you move into your home with your family care client, you may not immediately be deported after death. This is not the result of such a care passport, but it is the beginning of recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u293	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u294	I had stayed with the meeting centres that the Minister wants to organise and how important they are. If you want to organise a meeting center in the neighborhood for 80% of the people living at home with dementia, that's 235.000 demented people in 2030, that's gonna be a huge job in the next ten years. During the general discussion on this subject, the Minister had not yet made that calculation. Alzheimer's Netherlands has done so and it reaches about 1,400 additional centers. It's only 165 now. Has the Minister made that math? Did he also wonder how he's gonna finance that? We are very curious about the answer. 50PLUS agrees with the critical remarks made by Alzheimer's Netherlands, which says that there is no significant pillar in the national dementia strategy, namely prevention. We think that's a missed opportunity. A healthy lifestyle can delay dementia with years and sometimes even prevent it altogether. Brain health should be an important part of the new strategy. How does the Minister intend to make prevention more part of the national dementia strategy? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, there will be a prevention programme to promote brain health. During that AO, the Minister made a commitment to work on this. We are pleased with that. The last point on prevention. We find it incomprehensible that the Secretary of State has decided to carry out the population survey on breast cancer once every three years instead of once every two years. We find the justification in his letter to be totally inadequate. In addition, the Secretary of State has not involved the field either. In 2018, 6.519 women with breast cancer were discovered through this screening. This does not mean that all these women will die if it is discovered a year later, but it does mean that they will have to undergo much heavier treatments. Moreover, the number of women who will die is also increasing. This is just gonna cost lives. The fact that corona has caused delays is already painful, but it is unacceptable to carry out screening from two to three years. We ask the Secretary of State to do everything possible to bring screening back to every two years, to examine alternatives to screening, and to involve involved partners. Mr. Chairman. I would like to endorse Mrs Ellemeet's comments on menopause, which are much more difficult for many women than we know. This has major social consequences. We keep struggling with the staff shortage in care. The absence of health care alone is far too high. In the case of paramedics, that's sometimes even 20%. That's where I think it's necessary to intervene. I'd like a response from the Minister. We can put up so many I.C. beds, but if there's no staff, that's no good. 130 million has been allocated to make work attractive in the care sector. What are we gonna do with that? We have been talking for years about cutting red tape, scraping lists and more involvement of health care workers in the workplace, etc. Then we still find that many Ic nurses are not involved in the scaling up for covid. Work pressure and absenteeism must be addressed. But that's not enough. Also, the salary of the care staff should really be raised. We will continue to ask for this with a number of parties. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, we can say that this healthcare system is not sustainable. That the decentralisations create fragmentation and make care unnecessarily complicated and expensive. That more national direction is needed at various points, including the organisation of housing arrangements for seniors. That carers are crucial in care, and that much more is needed to support carers. That prevention is still far too little integrated into policy. Finally, we can see that we are not ready for the ageing wave, and here we must ensure that the elderly of today and in the future will be given the care they need and deserve. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u295	I had a question for clarification. If I have understood Mrs Sazias correctly, she wants to work in an integral and redundant way, close to people and with tailor-made work. She wants to make sure that, for example, aid and youth care are together, in the people's home. After that I hear her say "B," which is why I didn't understand anymore that she doesn't want to make a difference between what happens in municipality A and municipality B, between Nieuwegein and Amsterdam, I believe. She doesn't want certain parts to be integrated, but she wants them to be caught nationwide again. I don't know which one it is. Or did you find Columbus' egg so you could do both?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u296	When it comes to the example of the aid dog, or compensation for tools and indications for home care, I do not think that there should be any major differences. That's quite different from the integral look on the kitchen table. The intention is for someone to come and take a look around, for example if there is a pile of unopened mail. You can see there's a Wmo consultant coming in all the time. It's only aimed at the Wmo and what falls in there, and doesn't look at the other tubes. That's the integral look on the one hand. On the other hand, the fees for customisation must be the same everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u297	Is it clear now, Mr. Peters? I don't know if you're aware of the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u298	I'm gonna think about it for another night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u299	No, I'm not. You can ask for anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u300	It's not quite clear to me yet, but it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u301	You may ask a question. Ask me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u302	If we still had to regulate certain parts nationwide, what would that be? You call the ggz. That might be pretty big. Do you mean severe single dyslexia, EED, or anorexia, or everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u303	I do not want to say that ggz, and especially youth-ggz, should be regulated nationwide, but at least more centrally and not in the municipalities. Perhaps this should be done by region or by large region. We see municipalities can't pull this off. I understand that very well. So we need to do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u304	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make another request to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u305	I shall begin by thanking Mrs Sazias for her contribution. Mrs. Agema, you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u306	Yes, Mr. Chairman. RTL News has just revealed a Wob request about corona. RTL News reports: striking is an appointment at the end of February to discourage mouth caps for non-aid workers due to the scarcity. Now we all know that dozens of times have been claimed, both in technical briefings and in vocational training, that this has never been based on scarcity. That is why I would like to ask a response from the cabinet tomorrow, before the start of its term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u307	Yes. I see there's a nod in "K." Then I'm assuming that that reaction will be there tomorrow. We have come to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet, but above all the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-9.u308	Tomorrow afternoon, the cabinet will have the opportunity to answer your questions. Maybe we'll start early. Maybe. Thank you.
