ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u1	This concerns the amendment of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act for the purpose of the exchange of personal data. We start again as usual with a first term from the side of the Chamber. Mr Van Dijk has the floor as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, I drove my son in our car to Texel. From the chair next to me, he looked at me and asked, "Can we live on Mars later?" I think we all know how disarmingly sharp children can be. They trust that we as adults will never be late for work, know the way out of our heads and always pay the bills properly on time. Because we as adults can and know anything, these children think, children dare to ask us anything. When you were 15, you looked up to adult cousins 25 years old with a real job, a car and a flat. You blindly trusted them to know exactly what they were doing. Now, the 25 years passed, we know better. Shopping in time before the supermarket closes, switching to another health insurance, getting your son to sports on time, paying the bills, buying a birthday present. Some people are better off than others to meet the daily obligations of adult life. Yet for everyone, it remains a chain of improvisation with a high chance of small and less minor errors. As you need more help, the risk of errors increases. People who are ill or have low incomes must rely on a multitude of schemes. The consequences are many times greater. €600 of municipal taxes will not be waived, because your application is too late. You lose your income after you forgot a cross on a form and from now on you're a fraud. The surcharges are recovered because you made a euro too much. For these people, we create an incomprehensible world of forms, payment arrangements, remission arrangements, exceptions, surcharges and recoveries. Let's be honest, the chances of you leaving an account unopened, turning in a form too late or buying an impulse are life-size for everyone. People in this room are likely to be able to bear the extra cost of a formal notice. But many people in the Netherlands don't have that luxury. The risk of errors increases as your concerns increase. It's hard to make sensible decisions on an empty stomach or if you get sick, lose a partner or get fired. If you forget an account, still buy a present for your children or turn in a form too late, debts are made like this. Well, then, you better get out of here. Mr. Chairman. I find it indigestible that companies take advantage of human nature to make unwise decisions or abuse people in need. In the Volkskrant we read about the Wehkamp, which provides loans to people at usury interest rates of 12%. "Atttacking" was supposed to be called, invented a smart marketing department. It is irresponsible and profitable for companies, and so it happens. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if she's going to take action against this. Is she gonna ban "uppins"? Is she going to lower interest rates? Can Wehkamp make these loan loans? Can Wehkamp and other companies be obliged to report late payments to municipalities? For how many companies is this possible? It's not just human to make mistakes, the government and Wehkamp make it difficult to do it wisely. It's only logical to give people a second chance in life, isn't it? This is a sharp contrast to the neoliberal dogma that is your merit and poverty your own fault. If one in five families in the Netherlands is facing major financial problems, surely the right-wing idea cannot be sustained? Does the VVD still actually believe that the problems of 1.5 million households in this country are their own fault? I hope not. This would allow us to put the right to a new start at the centre. It is necessary to do more. As far as I am concerned, tomorrow the Secretary of State will start doing so, because 14 different bailiffs can still come to confiscate your refrigerator and car every day and still take advantage of people with financial problems. Anyone knocking on the city for help has to wait months and submit a bunch of forms. A single creditor looking for money can block all solutions and debt restructuring is a long journey through the desert with an uncertain outcome. There is still much to do and much more to improve. In a rich country like the Netherlands there are still children who go to school without breakfast and who can't really be a child, because their parents get sick of the debt stress. In twenty years, poverty in the Netherlands has not decreased. Unacceptable! I therefore ask the Secretary of State to ensure that all children can participate: go on a school trip and play sports at a sports club. That requires extra money. This money is also needed to ensure that municipalities can help all people with late payments. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that municipalities have sufficient resources? And is the Cabinet gonna take care of this with the Spring Note? Yesterday, I asked the Minister for Social Affairs, and we talked about the social state of the Netherlands, whether the cabinet has the ambition to really help people in poverty by setting a reduction target. This would allow us to take a number of steps in the coming years and reduce the number of people in poverty. So we can really solve the problem. Can we make an appointment about when we can close the food banks? Mr. Chairman. The law we are dealing with today is a good step to help people better. For that, I congratulate the Secretary of State. The law provides that municipalities can provide people with assistance on the basis of late payments from housing corporations, health insurance companies and energy suppliers. Anyone in trouble deserves that help. It is a good thing that municipalities are actively offering this help. We therefore support this law. In conclusion, I have a number of questions to make the law better. I would ask the Secretary of State to ensure that municipalities actually offer this help. Are they obliged to do so and do they have sufficient resources to do so? Do they receive sufficient signals from relevant parties? Finally, how many municipalities work with fixed-cost partners? Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you for your input. The next speaker is Mr Wörsdörfer, on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many people in debt do not dare to speak out or seek help. Post will not be opened at any time and letters will be discarded. On average, debt holders only ask for help with a municipality after five years. As a result, debts become unnecessary and small late payments quickly become problematic debts. Mr. Chairman. The importance of prevention cannot be underestimated. That was an important issue in previous debates. We want to help people who have problematic debts to get out and stay out of it. That is why it is important to help people take responsibility for debt relief processes where necessary, so that they can take control of their lives. For example, we tabled a motion to examine whether people in Wsnp routes and people in a clean-up process can be supported to handle their accounting properly. I also referred to the early warning, which can also contribute to prevention by pointing out which households are affected by debt. Early warning will prevent small late payments from resulting in heavy debts, requiring friendly or legal pathways, with creditors seeing only a small part of their money back. And that's what the bill is about. This allows signals of payment problems to be shared with a municipality without the GDPR creating all kinds of barriers. As a result, municipalities can have an early conversation with people and that is absolutely good. The bill makes debt relief more effective and ensures that more people are reached earlier, which can help to avoid costly aid in the future. For example, signals about late payment in the rental of the house or in the case of gas, water and light. It is also good that municipalities are given room to experiment with any other signals. I would also like the Chamber to be kept informed of these experiments. We get an update on that every now and then, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The VVD is positive about the broad debt approach. The Secretary of State is actively involved in rolling out the measures in this approach. This bill is one of them. Congratulations on progress and on concrete steps being taken to improve the functioning of debt relief. We would also like to pay another compliment. During the budgetary procedure we also talked about entrepreneurs in debt and the fact that they are also entitled to help from municipalities. Some municipalities still have a blind spot. This bill makes it clear once again thatzzp'ers and entrepreneurs must be able to contact municipalities. That can't be said often enough. So thank you for the clarification in the explanatory statement. But of course there are some questions to ask. The first concerns the storage of personal data. This is reported to municipalities. These are stored for as long as necessary. In practice, it is expected that this will be up to six months. But how are we gonna keep an eye on that? I think it would be useful to check at some point whether municipalities are actually destroying this data in time. What does the Secretary of State think about this? Rent disadvantages can be an important signal for households with financial problems. It's very good that landlords get involved in that early warning. In the country there are also some pilots and the results sound good, but this is mainly about corporations. Does reporting of a late payment of the rent continue to be limited to those corporations or is it intended to apply to private landlords as well? And if so, does that go in broad for every landlord, or not? Furthermore, more early warning could put financial pressure on municipalities that are given more work to choose. The note following the report states that the structural financial consequences will be neutral on balance, as early warning will also yield a return. That seems to me to be a justified point. But I also think it would be wise to keep an eye on the pulse, because municipalities will have to be able to make the necessary investments. How's the Secretary of State gonna keep an eye on this? Then there's another subject. At least not so much a different subject on this law, but the point that Mr Van Dijk has just raised was it not that I see anyone walking to the microphone. I think it might be useful to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u5	Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u6	I just had a question about the remark about the reporting of rent disadvantages. It is a good point that this will apply not only to corporations but also to private landlords. This bill chooses not to extend that notification to mortgages. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u7	Actually, I don't like that. I know it's not part of it. I also know that the explanatory statement contains a number of comments on why this is the case. I didn't notice the answer as very strange. But reproducing it now isn't gonna work for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u8	Honestly, it's a little hard to respond to this. I can imagine that not only people who rent a corporation or a private landlord can get into debt, but also a large group of Dutch people who have a mortgage with a bank. The bank quickly understands when the mortgage is not paid. An extension would enable municipalities to provide debt relief to that group. Would the VVD still be able to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u9	I get the point. I think there are many more parties that could send out signals, but it is good to start with this now. If this is going to work very smoothly, we can think about expanding it. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to endorse what Mr Van Dijk had already said. I myself have also been very critical of companies that abuse financially vulnerable consumers by selling them too easily, for example through postcode targets and post-payment sales, especially when this concerns large companies, i.e. web shops. It has just been mentioned that a piece about the customer service of such a web store appeared in the Volkskrant a week or two ago. In this case, Wehkamp, where loans at the legal limit of 14% seem to be the norm in customer advice, also if customers could be in payment difficulties, and where customers can easily match. At a time when banks have to meet all kinds of requirements, you have to ask yourself whether this also applies to the funding clubs of these web stores. Do they have a duty of care? Does the AFM supervise to prevent any excesses? Do we consider this to be socially responsible? How could we better protect vulnerable consumers? And is that necessary? I think those are questions I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. I also think that these are questions to which we are going to answer each other. I hope that we will soon be discussing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u10	Very legitimate questions from the VVD. We all read that article in the Volkskrant. "Strangle credits," 14%, people in big trouble. Do I understand that the VVD wants to lower that bizarrely high interest rate as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. I have two more sentences to say and then I am going to say something about those percentages, if I may ask Mr Van Dijk for some patience. About the questions I just asked: I would be happy if the Chamber would talk to these kind of web stores. I was going to propose this at a forthcoming procedural meeting, and I hope that colleagues will support it. Finally, I would like to comment on the 14% ceiling. That seems to me at this time of possible negative interest on your savings no longer explain. Should we not re-examine the origin of this percentage and the starting points? This is all the more true since the interest rate to be calculated by the public authorities is also linked to that legal ceiling. Isn't it strange that, on the one hand, as a government, we would help people with problematic debts and, on the other hand, we would charge such unexplained high interest rates? What does the Secretary of State think of this line of thought? That is also my response to Mr Van Dijk's question just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u12	He seems satisfied. Thank you for your input. The next speaker will be Mr Jasper van Dijk, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. 1 to 1.5 million people have problematic or risky debts: a huge number that really requires political action. Only a fraction of them are reached with debt relief. There are even municipalities that exclude groups from debt relief, such as entrepreneurs, people with their own homes or young people without income. In order to avoid that, the Chamber has adopted a motion from me not to exclude groups. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that this motion will be properly implemented? We need to help more people in debt. Low-threshold debt relief and early warning are of great importance. The present law allows for the exchange of data. Municipalities are then obliged to make an offer to a resident for a discussion about debt relief. That is a good thing, because the sooner people are helped with debt, the better. If people do not get help, the debt will rise and the road to recovery will become more difficult. We do have some concerns and questions about the law. Many people in debt don't open their mail anymore, because the problems have just gotten too big. It would therefore be a good thing if the debt relief offered by municipalities were to take place in a personal conversation, whether by telephone or not, rather than by an unopened letter which nevertheless disappears into the cat box. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make an effort towards personal contact for municipalities? Personal contact will ensure that more people with debt can be redirected to debt relief at an early stage. In the first instance, this may mean more work, but ultimately, it means that people are out of debt faster and in need of a less heavy journey. Profits for everyone. Municipalities are afraid that the law will cost them more money. Perhaps that is true in the short term, but in the long term early warning is going to give us a lot. The cost is for the benefit. What is the Secretary of State for Municipalities doing about the possible temporary increase in these costs? The SP, with the Council of State, is critical of the fact that experimental possibilities go by ministerial arrangement and not by AMvB. That's not the right instrument, is it? An experimental period of five years is also quite long. Two years seems more reasonable. I'd like a response. Furthermore, the Ombudsman recommends that a legal response period be set for public authorities of six months, in which they have to respond to a request for debt relief. Are you gonna take this? Another concern is the risk of data leaks and unauthorized use of personal data. What guarantees does the Secretary of State build for this? Is she going to give municipalities handles and technical assistance to prevent data leaks and privacy violations, in order to reduce the risk of them? The SP naturally attaches great importance to privacy. I'm not sure it's settled properly. In particular, privacy-sensitive health data are a reason for concern. I have not yet received sufficient answers in the written reply. Debt relief workers may use information about late payments on the care premium or other debts of healthcare providers. Does this mean, for example, that the debt-help provider can see if someone is lagging behind, let's say, a psychiatrist or a gender clinic, or is only the outstanding amount shared? I would like a clear answer, because I don't think it's a good idea for this kind of thing to be on the streets or at least with that debt relief provider. Another concern is the non-paying scheme for health insurance. People who are unable to pay their health insurance come into the default scheme, in which they have to pay about 20% more for basic insurance than other people. Why don't we just get rid of that fine? 'Cause now it's basically a penance on arm. Then about choke credits by shipping houses like Wehkamp or Otto, an important cause of debt. See the reportage in the Volkskrant. People are deliberately helped in debt with towering interest rates. Are you prepared to curb these practices, for example by significantly reducing these interest rates? I have a motion for this. An infamous culprit is the so-called "spread pay." What do you think about setting up a register of people who do not want to enter into a distributed payment or credit? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Another example is where debt relief goes wrong. I am referring to the so-called "malafide directors." Do you know Steven Brunswijk's video on Facebook? We see there how his sister was treated by the company OBIN, debt relief. The debts have been paid for a long time, but she still has to pay. The case stinks on all sides. Also look at the many comments on that Facebook post. There really are a few thousand. So you can see that it's a sleaze and a sleaze. All people say they have experience with that, too, with crooked directors. It's really very worrying. What's the government gonna do against these crooks? See also my parliamentary questions on that. I'd like to hear an initial response from the Secretary of State tonight. Finally, Mr President. Let's not punish people for poverty. Choose a low-threshold debt relief. Avoid removals and closure of gas, water and light. At that point, carry out Mr Peters' motion to stop expulsions. And last but not least: if you really want to avoid debt, make sure that wages and benefits are sufficient to live on. That's gonna save you a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you for your input. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts, on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr President. It is a good thing that we are discussing today the cabinet's proposal to improve early warning of debts. For D66, debt reduction is a high priority. We have also taken note of the article in the Volkskrant about Wehkamp. We are therefore curious about the proposals of the VVD and the SP and are certainly prepared to support them. Isn't that good, Mr. Jasper van Dijk? That's how fast it can be. My group is convinced that this proposal can bring the prevention of debt-taking a step closer. Creditors such as the water company and the electricity supplier provide signals about late payment. Municipalities then make an offer for debt relief. We therefore welcome the proposal before us. However, we would also like to give a few points to the Secretary of State. My input today is divided into three parts. Understanding: how do we get more people to see their debts? Privacy: how do we ensure that personal data is handled properly in the follow-up process? How do the parties remain involved in the elaboration? Mr. Chairman. In addition to preventing debt, insight into the debt situation is important to counter excessive debt. It is therefore good to see that bailiffs have made work of Schuldenwijzer.nl, a clear overview of all outstanding debts with bailiffs. Unfortunately, no public authorities have yet joined this initiative. I was at a meeting of FunX the other day, a radio station with a wide range among young people. There they raised the problem of debt among young people. The stories of that night scared the hell out of me. The government is among this group, but also among other groups, often the largest creditor. Over the past year, the National Ombudsman has also often drawn attention to the role of example to be played by the public authorities as creditors. Hence my question to the Secretary of State whether she shares the view that it is important that people in debt have a good understanding of their debt situation. What does she think of the Schuldenwijzer.nl initiative? What can it do to include public authorities in this initiative? I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the protection of persons with debts, privacy is also a great asset. When it comes to data exchange, we must take the utmost care. The storage of the data must also be carried out safely. The Secretary of State proposes that data be kept "for as long as necessary" by municipalities. In addition, six months seems reasonable. How is uniform defined what "so long is necessary" means? How is it ensured that personal data will be destroyed after that period? My colleague from the VVD already asked about that. How is it ensured that all municipalities handle data safely and that data collected for early warning is actually used for that purpose? The need for care is all the more important when it comes to medical data. The SP just started talking about that, too. The Personal Data Authority has indicated that it lacks any justification for the use of medical data for the purpose of debt relief. Can the Secretary of State specify in which cases medical data is used for debt relief purposes? Can it elaborate on how the observations of the Personal Data Authority have been incorporated into the proposal? Mr. Chairman. It is good for utilities to provide early information to municipalities when late payments have occurred. My group also supports it when these companies bring late payments to the attention of the public through a social collection. The first step of this social collection consists of a payment reminder, in our view, free of charge. D66 has previously drawn attention to this in public authorities. Does the Secretary of State have an idea as to whether this payment reminder by companies is effective? Is it prepared to allow a free payment reminder to be the norm for public authorities too, in order to prevent debt from being incurred? My group agrees with the six signals set out in the cabinet proposal. However, the Secretary of State expressly leaves open the option of adding new signals in the future. That's a good thing when it comes to early warning. However, we need to be careful with any new signals, because privacy is also a great asset. The Council of State is also critical of the use of the ministerial arrangement. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the Chamber is involved in the recording of any new signals? And can it also undertake that new signals will always be ex ante reviewed by the Personal Data Authority? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the role of municipalities in the provision of debt relief. This proposal will further enhance it. Municipalities have to act on incoming signals. However, the VNG has indicated that a greater role for municipalities should not mean that other interested parties no longer take their role in reducing debt. Can the Secretary of State reflect on this? To what extent do municipalities have sufficient knowledge and capacity to follow the signals? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you for your input. Mr Renkema has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr President. It is tempting to think that from this Chamber we can steer the reality of everyday life in detail. This idea often leads to legislative proposals and rules that, although they are well-intentioned, lead to major problems in implementation. In this implementation, citizens encounter the government. A few weeks ago, the first part of the research into our implementation organisations appeared. It was an interesting analysis that clearly shows what the combination of a demanding but often swirling political direction and substantial cuts has done with our implementation organisations. I would like to take one quote from it: "When it comes to decision-making on new policies, implementation interests often die." I had to think about this when preparing this law, because the implementation here is not with UWV, the Tax Office, DUO or the Social Insurance Bank, but with municipalities. The same municipalities are now warning that this law is not properly enforceable for them. The Council of State is issuing the same warning. The question is therefore: are these implementing interests going to die today, or is the Secretary of State prepared to meet local authorities in this matter? Let me be very clear. GroenLinks supports the main objective of this law: to facilitate the exchange of data so that people with debt are more likely to come into the picture with municipalities. That's fine and important and it has to be. Early warning is essential. Longer waiting can lead to rapidly increasing problems for households. It is therefore important that municipalities receive these signals and that they can actually do something with them. But the question is whether obliging municipalities to do so is the best way. The Secretary of State seems to have the impression that municipalities are not doing their best and that they should therefore be forced to do something. I sometimes notice this in other debates. Can the Secretary of State explain what she's basing that image on? In this case, the implementing organisations, the municipalities, state very clearly: if we are to be able to identify debts in time and effectively, then we must be able to make our own assessment of what we are doing with a signal. In her response, the Secretary of State says that municipalities can simply send a letter, but I assume she has spoken to someone in debt, or else she has seen one of the many documentaries about people in debt. It has been said a few times this afternoon: people in debt do not open up their mail, and certainly not that of an official body. It is therefore not an effective measure at all if the municipality sends a letter. If the Secretary of State really wants all the signals to be picked up immediately, such as 'everything, it has to, it is mandatory', then that means that debt relief must also be provided quickly and that it may need to be transferred quickly to debt restructuring. And then butter must also be added to the fish for the municipalities. I do not think that is feasible at the moment, given the large increase that municipalities expect. It should also be budget neutral. Given the already large deficits in the social domain, you can't expect municipalities to fill in on their own. That is not feasible either. What is feasible is that we collectively rely on municipalities to set priorities themselves, choose the signals they want to get going and decide for themselves how to use the available budget most effectively. Will the Secretary of State give that confidence to the municipalities? I have tabled an amendment on that point. Should the Secretary of State advise against this amendment and therefore not be prepared to give them the confidence, will it provide financial support to the municipalities? A few other points, starting with the ICT infrastructure. Something has already been said about this. That is not such a sexy subject, but very important, you want something to work. At the moment, the municipalities indicate that this infrastructure is not at all well in place. How is the Secretary of State going to get this right before 1 January 2021? Is she willing to have a good execution test done, preferably by an independent party? In addition, it is not clear to me why mortgage providers are not part of the bill. I've been asking the VVD for a while. In the report, the Secretary of State states that it is not unlikely that it would be possible to reach a completely different group of debts. Several organisations involved also say: it is important to add this, to prevent homelessness and also because otherwise people have to go back to a social housing. Then why was it chosen not to include these signals in the law? Why is this not placed with the municipalities so that they can do something? I'd like to get another response on that point. Then there was another point about the monitoring that struck me. The Secretary of State states that municipalities do monitor early warning, but that this is not brought together nationally. Actually, I'm sorry about that. Wouldn't it be good to do that? Isn't that part of the system responsibility of the Secretary of State? The advantage of good monitoring is also that the State Secretary can express different expectations towards the municipalities. Not: have you made an offer to everyone, because that is compulsory? But to what extent do we manage to alert people early? Then something off-topic, but I think more spokesmen have done that tonight. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she can give an update on the implementation of the Simplification Act. That bill already has a lot of history. Is that where we're on schedule? I'm curious about that. So much for GroenLinks' contribution to the bill, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you. There is still a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u19	I wanted to ask a question about GroenLinks' amendment. My question is this: do you not undermine the intention of the law? Because it frees the municipalities to decide whether or not they are going to work, whereas the idea is precisely that early warning. You have to get to work if someone's late for payment. Mr Renkema gave me that impression when he said: yes, but municipalities have too little money. Isn't that the problem? Do you really think that this provision is important if there is enough budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u20	That is, of course, a bit of a hypothetical question, because all the municipalities must act within the current budget. I think it's and-and. I'd like any signal to be picked up. This requires a great deal of debt relief, but perhaps also debt restructuring. But when we say at this point that we oblige municipalities.... we do that from the Lower House quite often, impose an obligation on the municipalities... to do something with every signal, then we also put them on hold. You say, "If that doesn't happen, it's not good." If this law is a fact, then a municipal service gets those signals in and that's good. But I think that a municipal service should be able to choose for itself: what are we doing with this? Because not every signal is equally solid. You can expect more signals to come in. Then you should also be able to come up with a good offer to a family. But if you automatically say "there's a signal coming now and we have to do something now," you get letters like this as a solution. I don't think that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u21	In my view, we both believe that debt is a major problem that needs to be addressed. You're giving the municipalities an escape now. With this amendment, you give them a means of saying: yes, we think this is very important, but we do not really have the means and the time for it, and fortunately Mr Renkema does not need it, so forget it. Isn't that an undermining of your own desire?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u22	We fully share the point that people with debt must be able to be helped. We also know that people don't report themselves quickly and sometimes it takes years for them to report. We also know that the delivery of aid is still very slow and that it sometimes takes a very long time for it to go towards debt restructuring. We therefore share the point that it is important for early warning and that something is being done. But I have seen too often here lately legislation asking municipalities to do something, saying: "We want that at the heart of the matter. This is mandatory for all municipalities. Every signal must now be monitored." While I'm thinking, have some faith, in this case, in municipalities. They can say: look, here we see a number of households that we really need to do something with. So go and really support it. Therefore, prioritize and do not go from here bureaucratic regulation that every signal is picked up by the municipalities. Because that can lead to this kind of letter, which says: we have received a signal. It has been said for a while: those letters disappear in the trash or in the litter box. Those people aren't being helped. I think it's just by collecting more signals that you can get a richer picture of what's going on behind that front door. Then you can come up with a good offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u23	However, a question from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u24	Yes, on this point, Mr. Chairman. I understand the concern that, from here, centrally, something extra is being laid down in municipalities, such as the consideration. I don't think that's what GroenLinks and the Labour Party want. But this is about early warning. Here it is precisely about helping people early when they threaten to get into debt. Let's turn it around. Let us make it compulsory and centrally arrange for the municipalities here from The Hague. If there is a budget problem, then we should settle it nicely here in the Chamber, too, if it is ultimately too expensive for municipalities to implement. So we leave the obligation, but then we from the Chamber also ensure that there is sufficient budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u25	Finally, on this point. It is true that the laws are different, but in all cases we say as government: municipalities, you must do this. When I look at what the dome of the municipalities, the VNG, says about this law, they say very clearly that it is not feasible for them, because something is added to those municipalities. In this sense, I want to be administratively pure by saying: have faith in these municipalities and let them apply customization there. This applies to the Participation Act, which we need to change, but this also applies to this law: take care of customization by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u26	Thank you for your answer. I think you're at the end of your speech. Or does Mr Peters have a question? No, he got up, because he is indeed the next speaker, on behalf of the Christian-Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My time would be ten minutes and not seven, I say. If a government is not serving, what is it for? That is how I ended yesterday's debate on the social state of the Netherlands. That wasn't such an uplifting debate, but that's what I started with and that's how I start today. Within Christian social thinking, subsidiarity is one of the key concepts. Subsidiarity is about human measure, about a serving government. A government that doesn't take over responsibilities but supports them. No legalization of decision-making. "Computer says no" is not the answer people can count on. The human size is custom. People want to feel heard, known and conscience by a government that supports. There is no lack of commitment and good will, but unfortunately there is sometimes a lack of support. A lot of people have problematic debts and relatively few people are familiar with debt relief or debt restructuring. It seems quite difficult to clean people up. People don't come in late or late. People aren't found either. A second core concept within Christian social thinking is human dignity, for every human being is created by God and as such sacred. If a human being lacks legal certainty, that is a gross scandal, because that is an insult to our society. A human being is as a person.... and that is something other than as an individual... important and deserves to be seen, especially by that serving government. In the coalition agreement, we set ourselves the goal of reducing debt and poverty significantly. In addition to other measures taken, this legislative proposal should also contribute to this. The CDA also wholeheartedly agrees with the aim of this bill to help people with debt by early warning and to avoid further problematic increases in these debts. This can reduce the size of the debt at the start of the debt relief process and protect debtors from increased debt. Mr. Chairman. A human being is a human being by other people. There is no doubt that a person with problems has the responsibility to seek help himself, but this is not enough for understandable and sometimes less understandable reasons. Let it happen as a society that people are dying of debt, without us seeing it, and without us actively helping them all, we must take care of ourselves personally. Many social institutions play a positive role: care cooperatives, food banks, the foundations Leergeld, SchuldHelpMaatjes, churches and many others. They meet people in an easily accessible way and give true solidarity a face. Solidarity is visible between people and non-buyable through paying taxes and providing subsidies and surcharges. Mr. Chairman. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State: how can social initiatives be better involved in early warning? Is the Secretary of State prepared to engage with municipalities and promote regular consultation with these organisations at municipal level? The CDA supports the cabinet's view that experimenting on early warning is important to find signals to better reach people with problematic debt. Early warning has been carried out on an increasing scale for a number of years, but monitoring has so far been limited and fragmented. Moreover, there is no estimate of the number of people currently reached with early warning. How does the Secretary of State monitor the number of people reached by early warning? With this bill, municipalities are obliged to make an offer to a resident for an initial discussion on possible debt relief with each early signal received. GroenLinks also referred to the extent to which this obligation is really effective. Is it not better to have the municipalities themselves assess the signals on quality and legality? In this way, the municipality can deal more effectively with capacity and resources and use them more focused on signals where intervention actually has an effect. How does the Secretary of State view this? In this context, what does it think of the VNG's proposal, and in this case Mr Renkema's proposal, that this obligation should be abolished and replaced by a possibility clause? Mr. Chairman. The UNG is concerned about the capacity and resources for providing assistance to citizens whose municipalities are affected by late payments. Are they enough? Is the Secretary of State prepared to carry out a follow-up test in the organisational and financial field in accordance with Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act, as suggested by the VNG? Mr. Chairman. The CDA is convinced that debt-taking causes major other problems and major costs. Not every family in debt needs support from, for example, youth care, but the other way around it is true: in places where much youth care is needed, there is very often also a financial problem. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make a social cost-benefit analysis through that execution test or otherwise? What will be saved from care and other costs if we combat these debts effectively? Is there an estimate of that? Mr. Chairman. In other debates, I have tabled motions to force creditors to respond to requests from debt relief workers within a certain period of time. Those motions were dissuaded, but they were accepted, and that's a good thing. It is crazy to say that commercial parties can afford not to pick up the phone or not to respond to such requests, so that a person with debt cannot be helped. I ask the Secretary of State about the implementation of these motions. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the serving government. It is good that the National Ombudsman's recommendations have largely been adopted by the government, but this does not apply to the advice to include legal deadlines within which public and executive authorities have to respond to a request from debt relief workers for a debt statement and a proposal for a debt settlement. Why has this opinion not been adopted? I actually want to, because if a government isn't serving, what is it for? Finally, I would like to fully agree with all the people who said things about Wehkamp and related companies. We will certainly come back to that in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u28	Another interruption by Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u29	I have a question for Mr Peters. He said something about what I wanted with the amendment. He asks the Secretary of State how she looks at that. Well, I'm curious about that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u30	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u31	I am also curious about how Mr Peters of the CDA is looking at that at the moment, all the more so because I know that he has been alderman in the past and knows the municipal implementation practice well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u32	I know that practice well. I sympathize with what Mr Renkema says. Municipalities generally indicate: there is a lot of pouring out on us, but do we have enough room and resources for that? On the other hand, in this case, the municipalities are already responsible for the municipal debt relief and for finding those people. In principle, therefore, there should not be any change here, except that you find people earlier and thus can provide help. Probably save you money before it costs money. Hence the social cost-benefit analysis. That's got hooks and eyes on it, Mr. Renkema. I really agree with that. I know what you mean. That is why I expect the Secretary of State to provide a clear answer, including on social costs and benefits. My hope is really................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u33	Well, then, rounding it up. Mr Peters said something about the fact that he does want municipalities to be as effective as possible where it is most needed and that no letters are sent. It should not be a bureaucratic act. The municipal obligation is there, but to say now that there must always be a response... That may indeed lead to such a bureaucratic government, and not to the ministering government, which Mr Peters is so keen to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u34	Yeah, I'd hate that. Suppose I'd still be alderman, there'd be early signals like that coming in, and I don't think there's any need for action on that. I can imagine I'd just pick up the phone and call these people, like, "I'm getting a signal in here, do you agree that I'm weighing it this way?" Well, then I've fulfilled the obligation and then I've had a nice contact with a citizen who might be in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you for your input. You were the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. I suggest we suspend the sitting until 6:10 p.m. The Secretary of State is doing her best. The sitting will be suspended until 6:10 p.m. and then we will continue with the Minister's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u36	The next item is the continuation of the amendment to the Municipal Debt Assistance Act for the purpose of exchanging personal data. We need the first term from the government. I call the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to start with a brief introduction later. After that, I have a number of main themes. It's always nice to know. I have classified it into questions about early warning, about privacy and about costs and benefits. There are also a number of other questions. Let me begin, with thanks to your Chamber for the questions asked by this law, by saying that it can really happen to anyone to lose their jobs and then end up in debt. It is of the utmost importance that we should be able to reach people early, especially since it often takes a very long time for people to ring the bell themselves. Several of your MPs have also mentioned this. I understand that it's very difficult to be open about this when it happens to you, but we really need to break that taboo with each other. Because if we are not careful, then the problems accumulate very quickly, resulting in potentially huge debts. And it's not just about towering debts, because the chances of stress and disease are also piling up. People are also gonna think that society isn't waiting for them. I want to avoid this accumulation of problems with you. That's why I've come up with this law amendment. I want people to be given opportunities. I want to achieve a more social debt collection by creditors. I want the taboo on debt-taking to be broken. That is why I am so very proud of the ambassadors from our debt campaign, because with their story they literally give words but also a face to these problems and thus make them discussable. Their stories all show that it is extremely difficult to talk about financial problems. It's private and you don't want to sell it. But as far as I am concerned, having heard all these stories, we reach too few people, and also too late. The numbers don't lie. It is estimated that 1.4 million households have problematic debts or are at risk of ending up in them. That is why it is good that debt issues are high on the agenda: on my agenda, on the agenda of your Chamber, but also on the agenda of many civil society organisations. In the case of late payments on rent, energy, water and health insurance, municipalities must now provide assistance. In practice, that can really make a difference in people's lives. That's gonna help prevent home evictions. Because it's a real disaster if you're suffering from debt. It can also prevent closures of energy and drinking water. This is also crucial for the protection of health. This legislative amendment to the Municipal Debt Assistance Act is part of the Broad Debt Approach Action Plan. This includes more than 40 measures to reduce debt. The broad debt approach is on steam, but we're not there yet. I'm a coordinating ruler, and it's my goal to implement this debt approach as a whole, along with all the parties involved. Early warning, which we are talking about today, is covered by the Municipal Debt Assistance Act. This proposal is about clarifying early warning of debts in the law and making the necessary exchange of information between parties easier, of course, under all due diligence requirements. The bill regulates that municipalities receive signals about late payments at the earliest possible stage. Municipalities have had a lot of experience with this early warning in recent years. That's the beauty of what's ahead of us today. For they are municipalities, they are debt relief workers, and it is all those other parties that are close to people who have told us that this change of law is very much needed to help people in financial difficulties. The origins of this proposal therefore lie in practice. One could say: it is a law of but also before implementation. At the moment, it is not clear by law who is exchanging personal data with whom and for what purpose. This change of law is the framework, together with the conditions for processing the personal data according to the privacy regulations, the GDPR. In doing so, we want to ensure that the exchange of data is targeted and careful. Because let's be crystal clear: privacy must be well protected. That is why the balance between privacy and assistance has been sought in the proposal. Municipalities are required to issue a decision at the start of the debt relief process, along with a plan of action. That's why someone in debt knows what he's up to. It is also clear which data the municipality uses. Many questions have been asked about this; I will come back to that later. I have therefore opted for a limited number of signals for early warning, but they all relate to basic necessities and are proven good indicators for problems, such as rent delays, in order to be far ahead of home expulsions. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions that have been asked about early warning. I had prepared a very nice introduction for that too, but I will leave it out because of the time. The importance of early warning has been sufficiently emphasised by the Chamber, so I will come to the questions. Mr Renkema said: it is a pity that mortgage providers are not included; can we not? I do not have strong feelings about what else we could do, but it is important to point out that we are now starting with what, according to the practice, are good indicators. I would therefore like to propose the following: if municipalities or creditors want to test another signal, this can also include the data of mortgage providers. That's what I mean by the possibility of experiments. Such a signal could then be included in a ministerial arrangement. But that only applies in municipalities that have indicated that they want to participate in this experiment. I do see that this can be used to approach another group, although the data we are about to exchange can cover a wide range of domains of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u38	It is nice that an experiment could be started by the municipality, but I am also looking at the reaction of quite a few of the organisations that have approached us, from VNG to client council and other organisations. They say, "It's homeowners who get into debt very well." Then why isn't this group immediately included in this bill? I didn't really get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u39	That's right. We want to start with the signals that we get from practice and which are a very good indicator for people with problematic debt. This concerns the domain living, but also the domains electricity and water and health insurance. People who live in a store also have health insurance. We know from these cost items that they are the first to be omitted, with which they are clearly a relevant signal. But I don't want a battle between relevant signals. As far as I'm concerned, this is a first step and we're going to see what else we can do through experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u40	It's true that people try to pay their rent or mortgage interest for as long as possible, because everyone feels like you're going to be in big trouble if you don't pay it for a few months. This also means that there are already serious problems there: there are big debts before someone stops paying their mortgage. I'm sorry it's being put down as a possible experiment. Would the Secretary of State be prepared to explore this, in this case, with a number of banks? What does it mean if this were to happen if we were to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u41	I know that there are broader discussions about what can and cannot be done with banks. Of course, additional rules will come into play. If you don't mind, Mr. Renkema, I will give you a specific answer to this question in the second term. With regard to the possibility of experiments, Mr Jasper van Dijk states that he thinks five years is a very long time: shouldn't that be two years? By way of derogation from the law, you can make a ministerial arrangement for the maximum duration of five years. So that can also be shorter. However, municipalities have indicated that a period of two years is very short to assess proven effectiveness. I really think it is important that we have the opportunity to apply innovation to this issue, but then we should have the opportunity to check whether it works in practice. That is why a five-year deadline has been chosen. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wörsdörfer also asked about private landlords. He is right to raise a point, because I did not distinguish between housing corporations and private landlords in the legislative proposal when it comes to what we ask of them, namely the exchange of data on problematic delays. I think it is very important that we set a clear standard. I have also opted for a law that is as unambiguous and enforceable as possible. The rules make no distinction. However, I would like to point out that we still have little experience in reporting rent disadvantages to municipalities by private landlords. But I also expect them to collect socially. For them too, their tenants may have financial problems. In doing so, I did not want to distinguish between private landlords and housing corporations. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked whether municipalities were getting enough signals to act on. As far as I am concerned, the answer would be yes. That's how I filed the law with the Chamber. Why did we choose these signals? A signal should also be a good indication of more debt. And the signals must reasonably foresee that a natural person cannot continue to pay his debts or has already ceased to pay. And that also predicts the imminent situation. As I said before, these signals have also been imposed from practical experience. Mr Gijs van Dijk also asked how many municipalities work with fixed-cost partners. I'm assuming he was referring to early warning arrangements. At present there are many agreements that municipalities already have with creditors in the form of covenants early warning. I do not know exactly how many municipalities have made agreements, but this amendment clarifies that municipalities should include debt relief in their policy plan. They also retain the freedom to make local appointments. So municipalities that have already done this can use their experience to continue working together and, as it were, make a flying start. In addition, however, all parties will be given more clarity as to their role and responsibility. Several groups asked: if experiments are being carried out, will we be informed as a Chamber? I want to make a round commitment on this. As soon as we do that, I will inform the Chamber. If municipalities and creditors want to test another signal, I would love that very much. Then I'm sure I'll let you know. By the way, in the direction of Mrs van Beuker-Huijbregts, I say that there is always a test by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. A question has then been asked by Mr Jasper van Dijk about the system of non-payment. He's asking if we can't get rid of it better. In December 2019, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport informed you about the evaluation of the non-paying scheme that has taken place. This has resulted in a number of additional measures. Moreover, this evaluation has shown that the imminent prospect of the non-paying scheme prevents some of the insured persons from getting late in payment. It encourages them to take action. But I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk, who has said this on several occasions, that this late payment incentive does not work for some of the insured. This often has to do with a broader debt problem. That is precisely why the amendment of the law is so very important, because all the municipalities will make an offer with this law in hand if someone has a late payment with the health insurance company. So I also express the hope that this law will lead to less entitlement to the default scheme. Mr Jasper van Dijk also asked if I am prepared to oblige municipalities to explain the offer of assistance through a personal contact. We will discuss the amendment tabled by Mr Renkema later, but I really think it is important here that municipalities are free when it comes to the form in which aid is offered. However, the legislative proposal clarifies an existing task in the area of debt relief. The importance of this bill is firstly that it provides an existing practice with a legal basis that is consistent with the privacy rules. The way in which the early warning is presented is not completed. I might also find a letter, too. I use the example myself several times, given the problems we know of many people who are in debt, a little less happy. But municipalities are free to do so. They can also choose to call people. They can also choose, I tell Mr Peters, to make agreements with voluntary organisations or civil society organisations to visit people. This law will also allow voluntary organisations involved in debt issues to obtain early warning via the municipality. Privacy was also an appropriate topic in the contribution of the Chamber. I can imagine that. On the one hand, ICT makes the exchange of personal data ever easier and can improve the provision of services. But on the other hand, privacy is something that needs to be protected very well. In this bill, I have already said it in the introductory statement, the balance between privacy and assistance has been sought. People in debt cannot give full voluntary consent to aid workers to collect data. That is also the starting point of this law. After all, there is a certain dependence on aid. People ask for very little help or very late. That is also one of the reasons why the law should be amended. We need to make clear who is exchanging personal data with whom and for what purpose. The amendment of the law requires the municipality to provide assistance to a resident in the event of early warning. This touches on the debate on the "must or can" clause introduced by Mr Renkema. But I would like to make it very clear that our privacy regulations do not allow non-committality here. I agree with everyone who says we should avoid interference. It is therefore also important that we do not allow unnecessary processing of personal data. That is why a small number of signals were chosen, but they were really essentials and indicators for problems. D66 has called for extensive attention to privacy. How can we ensure that citizens' privacy can be guaranteed in the case of debt relief? How do parties remain involved? As far as I am concerned, I would like to make it very clear and clear that this legislative amendment represents the framework for the safe processing of personal data. In addition to this law, the GDPR also provides the framework and conditions for the processing of personal data in general. Municipalities, as well as creditors, also take technical and organisational measures for the privacy-related data processing. For example, municipalities use the Baseline Information Security Government (BIO). Furthermore, the issue remains on the agenda of the discussions we are having with the UNG, because the further development of information will continue to be discussed with them. A number of members have asked about the medical data and its justification. I want to make it clear here that it is not necessary for debt relief to process medical data. So that's not allowed either. This legislative proposal does, however, allow the processing of so-called health data. It's not about medical records, it's about someone getting help. It concerns the contact details of the aid provider, so that assistance can be coordinated. I have modified the explanatory statement following the opinion of the Personal Data Authority and made it explicit that it is not necessary to process medical data. That is also what I say to Mr Jasper van Dijk, who asked whether a health care professional can see if someone is late in payment or just a debt to a particular party. This also applies to the contact details of the aid workers. Other health data should not be used. Again, the Baseline Information Security Government is used as a standard. Then there was a question from Mr Wörsdörfer about data destruction. In order to take account of the different situations in which people with late payments find themselves, the legislative proposal does not provide for a maximum retention period. Municipalities may retain data for as long as necessary. It is good to know that municipalities already process a lot of personal data, and that they always have to comply with the GDPR. They are themselves responsible for taking measures in the field of privacy and information security, such as destroying personal data that are no longer necessary. If someone no longer wants help, I say in the direction of Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts, who also asked questions about it, there is no longer any reason to keep data and the municipality will have to destroy the data in accordance with the regulations. If someone does accept help, it depends on the content of the help how long the personal data will be stored. Because it's so diverse, I don't intend to monitor this separately. The same is true of Mr Jasper van Dijk's specific question on data leaks. The framework that applies, including the fact that municipalities already process a lot of personal data, also means that municipalities are responsible for this, and that they have to work in the same way as they do with other personal data, to ensure that it does not leak data. I shall now turn to the debate that Mr Renkema started and to the amendment he tabled. He wonders whether we should oblige municipalities to do this, because municipalities have freedom of policy. I have just said that a clear legal task is an explicit condition for the processing of personal data, and that a can-determine is therefore contrary to the GDPR. I would also like to encourage, with the amendment of the law, that early warning should be used on a larger scale and in a uniform manner throughout the Netherlands. It is also true that there are legal and substantive objections to a possibility clause. That also indicates that if I had to give an opinion on this amendment now, I would have to advise against it. Mr President, I know I always do that at the end, but it is such a part of the debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u42	I'm glad you're doing it now, so I'm sure we'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u43	Well, I'll have to make that judgment by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u44	It does lead to an interruption by Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u46	Let's be clear. I believe that I have made it clear that we fully support the purpose of this law. It is essential that early warning is established, that it is right for municipalities to receive signals and that the most serious signals are placed at the top of the list, that priority is given and that action is taken immediately. Now, when we say that every signal should lead to a reaction from the municipality, I'm afraid that's going to lead to some sort of automation for reference to a helpdesk or whatever, or to volunteers. I do not think that is what we want; we want the biggest problem to be addressed. I do not fully follow the argument that privacy laws could not do that. I believe that in a situation where the municipality is building up a file on someone who may be in debt, too. There may be another signal three or four months later, and then something will be done about it at that time. I do not think that building such a file by a municipality, which is actually a kind of monitoring, should not be allowed under the privacy law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u47	The process is as follows. Moreover, the reason for this law is that municipalities and debt relief workers said to us: this is our job, we have to do early warning, but we are running into legal limits, help us with that! We have started to create a legal basis to do so, and then you run into issues like that the processing of personal data can only be done with a legal basis. That is the reason for me to do a must-determine and not a can-determine. I would also like to outline the context in which this is happening. At the moment, for example, when someone is behind on their rent, or when they are lagging behind in paying the health insurance or one of the other indicators, the organisation involved must have already been involved in a social collection process. It must therefore have already tried to agree on a payment arrangement or to refer people to debt relief. It's not a jumble of ripe and green mixed up. The signals from the organizations we've appointed are coming to the municipality. There's already a whole story going on. We also know that these are indicators that indicate a serious situation, they are often basic necessities. That is why it is also important to take immediate action when that municipality receives that signal. I absolutely share Mr Renkema's preference to add as much couleur locale as possible to a task that is carried out throughout the city. We have said that the municipality is free in the form to respond to the signals. Is that what the city does? Is that why she's ordering social ward teams? Does she call for the help of voluntary organizations, for example? Municipalities can make choices in a very wide range of options. I think it is very essential that there should be an offer of assistance, given what has been done so far to get that signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u48	I would just like to point out that this is an amendment to item No. 8 has been dissuaded by the Secretary of State. Is there anything else coming after you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u49	I do not have the literal text at hand for a moment, but I wanted to point out that there are also a number of considerations which I would like to endorse. Anyway, that might come in second term. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of costs and benefits, which also has a connection with the question Mr Renkema raised. Research shows that early warning actually has a return. For example, savings are in debt relief pathways.... if you are there earlier, lighter aid is often sufficient... in the application of the Participation Act.... less expenditure on benefits...... and in social care which prevents home expulsions. In part of the municipality early warning is already part of the daily work. Another part is still in the process of being introduced. VNG does support the bill, but has called for attention to be paid to its feasibility, partly for that reason. Mr. Chairman. I tried to keep the bill as simple as possible. I also just had an exchange of views in the debate with Mr Renkema, which I tried to fit in with local implementation practice as much as possible. Mr Gijs van Dijk, but also some of your MPs after him, has asked whether we can look at the resources if that is what this is all about. I really think it is important to point out here that municipalities themselves have indicated that they are running against the limits of the law when it comes to carrying out this task, so that this is also a support. Of course, I am always in conversation with municipalities to see how things go financially; I continue to do so. Our expectation is that there will indeed be savings, especially because you are going to help people sooner. We expect, of course, that we will reach a lot more people. This is also stated in the explanatory memorandum, but that was precisely the intention of this law. Mr Jasper van Dijk specifically asked about the temporary increase in the costs of municipalities, because, for example, many more people are being reached in the first instance. The one-off 80 million made available by the government through the government agreement for debt and poverty can also be used to support and scale up early warning. In addition, there are a number of leading municipalities, which have used their experience with subsidies from the Ministry of Social Affairs to simplify things. Under the direction of the NVVK, also with financial support from the Ministry of SZW, national agreements were made by municipalities and creditors on early warning. I have spent three years funding VNG to support municipalities in the exchange of information on debt relief. As far as I am concerned, I am also looking in the direction of Mr Peters...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, I find it very interesting to see at some point whether this law will then lead to less concern elsewhere. This will also be more widespread in the social domain. I can therefore imagine that there is an evaluation clause in the law that, as part of that evaluation, we are also updating the social cost-benefit analysis of debt relief. I come to the other questions. In addition, there is a question about the response period of creditors, in particular non-responsive creditors. I am automatically looking in the direction of Mr Peters, because this is a subject that he regularly brings in. He asked what progress had been made on the implementation of the motion that had been tabled. The investigation he asked for is now under way. In the spring of 2020, the Chamber will be informed. I hope he will receive an answer to that question in the near future. Both Mr Wörsdörfer and Mr Renkema asked about the national monitoring. They have raised monitoring issues. I would like to reiterate here that the change in the law makes debt relief more efficient and more effective because people get help sooner and because simple help is enough. But it's also good, we've just been talking about social costs and benefits in order to get municipalities to monitor better what those costs and benefits are. A number of municipalities have taken the lead in monitoring early warning, as I just said with subsidy support. The intention is to make that monitoring a permanent part of Divosa's Poverty & Debt benchmark. As a result, data will be available again. Mr Renkema asked how I am going to ensure that ICT is in place in good time. Debt relief is a municipal task and part of the information provision. ICT facilities are available, but they need to be expanded to exploit the potential of new regulation. For early warning, secure information systems have been developed, which allow municipalities and, for example, housing corporations and energy suppliers to exchange late payments. The VNG supports the municipalities in the provision of information and where I can, I contribute with, among other things, a three-year grant to the VNG. Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts asked how we can ensure that people get more insight into their debts and what I think about debtewijzer.nl. What can I do to get government organisations to join? I think that debtwijzer.nl provides a very clear overview. I've tried it myself once, and you really get a lot of information at a glance, or no information if it doesn't apply to you that a seizure has been made. I understand the need that people have to see as much data as possible and that organisations have to be able to share data, because information on late payments is needed to help people as quickly as possible. But we also need to protect privacy here, because people can suffer greatly if they are registered somewhere for too long or wrongly. The art is therefore to find a balance between privacy and assistance. There are some very good initiatives. I have just mentioned the Debt Guide, but also the Debt Node of the NVVK, with which municipalities, creditors and citizens exchange information on debt arrangements and herds. Specifically for public debt holders, as there is always a need for extra care, the Widening Warp Register project is under way, with government organisations also exchanging data on herds and nettings. Recently I published the bill to make this possible for internet consultation. Mr Renkema asked if I could give an update on the unwound foot. That is indeed a route on which I am on top, and not just me, because it depends very much on it. With the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Finance, I will inform the Chamber in writing by April at the latest. We'll get another update. It is indeed an exciting timeline, but my picture so far, and I speak a lot about it, is that the law will be implemented on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u50	I had to let it settle for a second. But residents have no idea of their own debts in what you just mentioned, that node that NVVK is working on? In the Debt Guide, you have your own insight. My question was also: how can we ensure that residents get a view on their own debts? You were just talking about consulting... Sorry, I have to get used to the terms. Is that register something that residents or parties can look into?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u51	There are several initiatives, often also private ones, where people can enter information themselves. But if you look at the underlying problem that gets people into trouble, it's because information remains inexplicable. For this there are indeed a number of public initiatives, such as the foothold free, but also the broadening of the herd register, which automatically unlocks and provides data. They are indeed intended in particular for aid and for bailiffs to see herds. But there are also private initiatives for people to be able to look at their own situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u52	That's exactly what we're looking for. That is why we thought: how can we ensure that these public authorities, wherever they are in debt, become visible? But that's probably another bridge too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u53	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts also asked about the free payment memories. The tricky thing is that we have also exchanged this in debates earlier that if people no longer open their envelopes, sending payment memories also makes little sense. For organisations, especially government organisations, it is therefore important to take this into account in the social collection policy and to have other ways to approach people. By the way, when it comes to the cost of payment memories, they are limited to 2% for government organisations. Many organisations do not make use of the possibility to charge these costs. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Wörsdörfer, who asked us exactly what was going on. If a citizen does not pay in time, administrative bodies may charge the statutory interest. The maximum rate is 2%. In the meantime, they decide this for themselves. Another interest rate that has been raised is the interest rate used by many web stores. There were a lot of questions from your room about that. I understand that, because the situations that are discussed in the various media, but also that I hear in personal conversations, are really very poignant. Just the indicative question that has been asked here when it comes to corporate social responsibility; I do have feelings about that. What I would like to point out is that this is the portfolio of the Minister of Finance. It is also about supervision by the AFM, for example. In January, the Minister of Finance sent a letter on shipping credit. He indicated that he would examine what measures could be taken to combat the problems of shipping. The supervision of lending is also exercised by the AFM. In any case, I can say that credit providers have a duty of care towards consumers. With these ingredients, the Minister of Finance is working. Since it is a bit beside this law, although of course it can be a great reason for people to get into trouble, I suggest that the feelings of the Chamber be passed on to my colleague and that we look together with him to see to what extent we can carry out this investigation firmly and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u55	This is about the choke credits, and that is what I call them from Wehkamp and other institutions. It seems to me really appropriate to take action quickly. There's broad support for that, from left to right. Could the Secretary of State be a little more precise in what she now promises?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u56	In any case, I would point out that it lies with my colleague, the Minister for Finance. Although I am coordinating in this, I do not think it is appropriate for me to make binding agreements here on colleagues' portfolios. I'm going to try to give you a moment in the second term when that reaction comes to the Chamber. But at least let me be clear that I share the feeling that lives here and that I also like to pass it on to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr Wörsdörfer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u58	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. It was just about how these companies operate. I think that's very good. Can the Secretary of State give us the comments that have been made on the maximum rate and the request that we look again today to see if that percentage is still correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u59	I believe that there is always a stenogram, but in this case I will also personally convey the words to my colleague and show how the debate has been conducted here. Absolutely. Mr. Chairman. Mr Jasper van Dijk made another point, namely malicious directors. I would like to say that the quality of directors really is a constant concern. In September 2019, the Minister for Legal Protection sent the Chamber a response to the review of the Law on Change Curate, Government and mentoring. Part of this evaluation was the quality review of directors. The improvements identified in the evaluation are currently being implemented. I myself have also spoken with a number of organisations and there has been an administrative consultation on debt management with the judiciary, with industry associations for directors and with the VNG. That was on 4 March last, so very recently. There the caselaw has indicated that it is possible to examine together with the trade associations and municipalities how to implement training for directors. Before the summer there will be a consultation with stakeholders and I will inform the Chamber in due course. There is something else that really matters to me, and that is what I want to have said here. I am very well-known with the phenomenon of malicious directors, but we all have to realise that there really are a number of people who are committed to this with heart and soul. That's not what this is about. Mr Jasper van Dijk did not ask that question, but let us also remind you once in a while that there are a lot of professionals involved in this profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u60	I totally agree with that last one. Of course, it's about the rotten apples. May I advise the Secretary of State to watch Steven Brunswijk's video on Facebook? It's been viewed half a million times. That's what I'm talking about. He tells the poignant story of how his sister was taken by the company Odin I mentioned, because of all kinds of bills that had been paid off long ago, but for which she still had to pay. That seems to me to be an example of an ill-advised director. What you see then is that people have little room to complain about this and that there is also a lack of supervision of these kinds of agencies. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that, and is she going to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u61	I am referring here again to the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection, who has not for nothing taken up a number of points of improvement as a result of the evaluation of this law. What I really think is very positive is that it has been said, on the part of the municipalities as well as on the part of the judiciary and the inter-branch organisations of directors, that the three of us need to sit much closer together to ensure that the service is provided by good people in a way that works for the citizens of the municipality. That also came out in the conversation this week. We all realize that there is also a large number of people who are not members of an industry association. This is also an explicit issue which has been called for consultation, because there are, of course, a number of doubts about this. But the most important thing I think is that we are now going to work to ensure that this quality goes up, but also that municipalities, directors and justice can find each other better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u62	In conclusion, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u63	I got it. I got it. Let me ask you another question. What strikes me very much is that municipalities often have a picture of what good directors are, but that it is made difficult for them to recommend them, because that would be contrary to the internal market rules. Do you not agree with me that a municipality should be able to advise: that is where the good directors are, and that is a rotten apple, you should not go there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u64	At present there are different ways of looking at this issue in the country. There are regions where, for example, agreements are concluded. There are municipalities that deal with directors in different ways, especially in order to give out the best practices. What can and what can't be done? For that, they agreed to go closer to the table. The first conversation takes place before the summer. I hope that will soon get hands and feet and then I will inform the House of that. I mean, I couldn't find my piece of paper for a while, so I'm going to say from my head that Mr Gijs van Dijk, who isn't here right now, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u65	Unfortunately, he is no longer present because of other obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u66	I'm sure he'll read very carefully what we're talking about here. He had asked whether we could not all set a reduction target when it comes to poverty. As you know, in the context of child poverty, I formulated a number of ambitions, after earlier motions on a reduction target had been adopted in the Lower House and in the First Chamber. In view of the time I will not tire you with all the complexity of definitions and so on, but in the meantime that is what I have also exchanged in the debate with the First Chamber, clearly that there really is a need for a little quantification of where we are going with all of us. So I promised the First Chamber that I would make an ultimate effort to see if we could determine any of the targets with each other or if we could work with indicators. The ambitions we have are also very important for finding children in poverty. I'd like to see if I can still accommodate that. If that succeeds, I will inform the First and the Second Chamber. I expect that will be for the meireces. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you for your input. I suggest that we proceed immediately with the second term of office. The first speaker is Mr Wörsdörfer, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly. I thank the Secretary of State for all the answers. It's obvious to me. The questions I had left have been answered well. We therefore intend to support this proposal, which was probably already clear in the first term. I have another question about the landlord's alert. The Secretary of State indicated that that arrangement is actually going to apply to all landlords. I get that. I also understand the importance of getting a signal from the landlord. I would be pleased if the Secretary of State could at some point give her ear to representatives of small landlords in particular. Wouldn't this really bother them? If that is not the case, of course that is absolutely fine. If so, that might be a reason to think about an exception for the small landlords. I am not talking about the people with wallets of 150 homes or anything like that. In particular, I welcome the commitment to continue discussions with the Minister of Finance on the abuses at the web shops, in their operations, but also with those percentages, and to inform the Chamber about them. I look forward to that. I think there's work to be done there. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u69	Thank you, too. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an offer of debt relief is more effective if it takes place in a personal conversation;]] [[calls on the Government to make an effort for personal contact with the debtor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that debt is a major social problem and that buying credit online puts many people in debt;]] [[whereas mail order companies such as Otto and Wehkamp charge usury interest up to 12%;]] [[calls on the Government to include online shops in the Decision credit remuneration as a separate category and to reduce the maximum credit fee for them from 12% to 2%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people in debt are regularly confronted with malicious directors cheating and/or robbing their clients;]] [[considers that the system of governance should be reviewed;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate problems of governance and to make recommendations to improve the system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35316-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35316-10]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35316-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to our questions. D66 is pleased that the Secretary of State is so involved in the debt problem. This proposal provides for the possibility for municipalities to proceed with early warning. We have also heard the undertaking that the Secretary of State will return to the Chamber if there is a desire to extend signals, and that this enlargement will involve the Personal Authority. We welcome that commitment. I'd like to make one more motion. It's about privacy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the amendment of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act leads to a more intensive exchange of personal data;]] [[Considering the importance of a good balance between privacy and early warning of debts;]] [[Whereas municipalities should collect these personal data and keep them prudently;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the privacy assurance in the evaluation and also to involve the Personal Data Authority in the evaluation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Beukering-Huijbregts, Peters and Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35316-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I think we all agree here this afternoon that it is extremely important that all signals about late payments go to the municipalities. For the sake of clarity, therefore, we support this amendment of the law. Early warning and good follow-up are essential. Nevertheless, I insist that we should give municipalities the space to deliver customization. I also agree with other laws, such as the Participation Act. I would also like to support the inclusion of mortgage payments late, because banks are not exactly known as the most social collection companies. Families with late payments in the mortgage are already very heavily in debt. As far as I am concerned, every municipality will have to be aware of this and experiments are too non-binding as far as I am concerned. It seems really important to me to talk to the Dutch Association of Banks about this. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State in the second term. Finally, I have a motion to support the municipalities. That seems to me all the more important now that my amendment has been dissuaded by the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that with the amendment of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act, municipalities are obliged to address any signal about late payment;]] [[Whereas municipalities will have to free up additional capacity for this;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal in the 2021 budget to structurally compensate municipalities for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35316-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions and one amendment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas social institutions, such as care cooperatives, the Leergeld foundation, food banks, SchuldHelpMaatje and churches are involved in a way that is easily accessible to people with problematic debts;]] [[considers that these civil society organisations should be better involved in early warning of debt problems by the municipality;]] [[calls on the government to engage in talks with municipalities and to promote regular consultation of municipalities with the relevant civil society organisations on debt prevention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas problematic debt often combines or causes other problems for families, for example in the areas of employment, housing and care;]] [[Whereas a social cost-benefit analysis can help to assess the savings in healthcare costs when combating debt effectively;]] [[calls on the Government to make such a cost-benefit analysis in the review of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that public authorities do not have a legal response period within which they have to respond to requests from debt relief workers;]] [[noting that citizens with debts cannot be effectively helped within the so-called stabilisation phase;]] [[noting that implementing organisations are united in the so-called manifesto parties;]] [[Whereas rapid provision of information by all parties and thus by public authorities can shorten the stabilisation phase and thus accelerate the start of assistance;]] [[calls on the government to ask each manifesto how they will arrive at a fixed response period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35316-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35316-15]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35316-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u74	Then I have another amendment, if possible, Mr President. Its text reads as follows: "The undersigned proposes the following amendment. I In Article I (B), the following subparagraph is inserted after paragraph 2: 2a. In paragraph 4 (d) (new), the words 'and third' shall be inserted after 'Article 4, first'.' Next to the explanatory statement: "This amendment follows the opinion of the National Ombudsman to include a legal deadline in the municipal regulation, in which the municipality must decide after a first discussion on the question of aid whether someone is eligible for the debt relief. It is not just citizens who have to comply with the legal deadlines. A credible government may also be expected to respond to a citizen's request within a reasonable time limit laid down by the municipal council in a municipal regulation." This amendment is proposed by Peters and Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you. It would be nice if you would also send the amendment to the Registry by e-mail, because that is actually the normal course of action. But you've read it now, so we can get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u76	I didn't know that. Now I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you. I suggest we suspend for five minutes. Then the Secretary of State can respond to the eight motions tabled and the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u78	The next item is the continuation of the amendment to the Municipal Debt Assistance Act for the purpose of exchanging personal data. We need the second term on the part of the government. I call the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I have two more questions to answer. Mr Wörsdörfer's question concerns the signals from small landlords. I will ask the two industry associations for small landlords to respond to the draft Community debt relief decision. That also gives them the opportunity to make their contribution to this. In the direction of Mr Renkema, when it comes to the banks, I would like to point out that the banks are also represented in the Comprehensive Debts Partnership. There are also the municipalities in it. It seems to me to be a very good thing to raise this issue at the next meeting. I'm also a member of the board of directors. Then we can tackle this issue and see what we can do about exchange, because banks, of course, also have a duty of care and large departments that assist people. Registration will also take place, for example at the BKR. But it is important to establish the link. I very much agree with him. Mr. Chairman. I come to the motions that have been tabled. The first motion is the motion in part No. 9 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. I have argued that I think it is important that municipalities themselves know how to shape the offer of aid. There is personal contact here or as an effort, but I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u80	The motion in part No. 9 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u81	Then the motion to part No. 10. I have indicated that this is the portfolio of the Minister of Finance. This means that I would ask the authors to hold this motion, so that I can give the Minister of Finance an opportunity to give the motion an appreciation in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u82	Let me take a look at Mr Van Dijk. Are you prepared to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u83	We would very much like to hear from the Finance Minister by Tuesday what he thinks of this motion. The Secretary of State would say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u84	I'm gonna do my best, but I haven't been able to organize it right now. I'll see if we can get an answer by Tuesday. If the motion is put to the vote, then I will have to advise against it. If the motion can be held until the response is received, please. I'll ask if you can do that for Tuesday, but I can't give you any guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u85	That's clear. So the motion has not yet been stopped, but has now formally 'dissuade' the verdict. That may change if there is a letter in good time or if Mr Van Dijk decides to hold the motion. The motion in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 11. The evaluation of the system has already been carried out by the Minister for Legal Protection and has also been sent to the Chamber. I would not like to stack research on research, but I would point out that the recommendations made in it to improve the system are currently being implemented. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u87	The motion in part No. 11 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 12, on the security of privacy, I'm judging Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u89	The motion in part No. 12 has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 13. This law has its origin in the request of municipalities that say: give us the legal basis for carrying out this task. So it is not a new task, but it is a question of the legal possibilities for the task. Early warning and data exchange, as I argued in the debate, will lead to the possibility for municipalities to avoid heavier routes. It saves costs. Municipalities are free to see how they make the offer; that is what I sought in Mr Renkema's amendment in the first term. So that's a button that municipalities can turn on. With that, I advise against this motion. I will maintain what I said in response to Mr Wörsdörfer. I am always very much involved, but this applies to everything with municipalities in conversation about the developments, including the financial ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u91	The motion in part No. 13 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 14, by Mr Peters, on civil society organisations. Let me put it this way: I think that is already the case in many municipalities. I hardly know any aldermen who do not discuss this issue with their civil society organisations, but I certainly want to bring this motion to the attention of the UNG. With that, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u93	The motion in part No. 14 has Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u94	Then the motion to part No. 15. I've agreed to make a social cost-benefit analysis, so judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u95	The motion in part No. 15 has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u96	The motion in part No. 16. I think it's a very interesting one. I'm judging him, too, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u97	The motion in part No. 16 also has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr Peters' amendment. That was the insight for me... Because I thought that was a very sympathetic amendment, as I think it was a very sympathetic opinion. However, our entire system of legislation is so rigged that if it is in the General Law on administrative law, it will pass through other legislation. So it's arranged in a different place. What could possibly lead to an adjustment of Mr Peters' recital in order to retain or withdraw this amendment is that I read and test from his contribution that there is a need for clarification. The National Ombudsman has given such opinions for a reason. I do think it is important to enter into this discussion with the Ombudsman, but I regret to have to advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u99	Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to inform me or the Court of Justice of the outcome of that discussion with the Ombudsman. Then I can keep the amendment until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u100	Unfortunately, that is not possible with an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u101	Then can I re-apply it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u102	You then have to make a legislative amendment or there must be a legislative amendment to which you can table that amendment, but you cannot keep an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u103	It is a subject on which we speak a great deal, namely reaction periods. I will be coming up shortly with a response to the requests about deadlines for response. I say to Mr Peters that I will involve it in this and take into account what those response periods are at present. I'm sure I'd like to work on that, too, to see if that's how it's gonna work. Of course, we're going to evaluate the law, too, but a law can always be re-enacted, is my experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u104	Does that lead to the conclusion that you are withdrawing your amendment, or do you still want to think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm gonna think about that for a second, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u106	Then we will notice that next Tuesday at the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. I realise that today, for very legitimate reasons, there was some pressure on the agenda. I would nevertheless like to thank the Chamber for dealing with the law now before us in this way. It is an important subject, on which I consult a great deal with your Chamber. I really have the hope and expectation that with this law we can help a lot of people with the beginning of a clean slate, because that is what I feel as an ambition together with your Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thank you very much for your input. Thanks also to your employees and to the members and their staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-9.u109	We are going to vote on the motions and amendments tabled next Tuesday, 10 March. That concludes the debate on this subject. I wanted to continue on the next subject immediately, but I'm waiting for the Minister, so I'm suspending for a moment.
