ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the presentation of the budget for the year 2021. That is a good time to give the Minister of Finance the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u2	Then I am avenged that I am just a short moment waiting for what I want to share with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u3	Well, how was your day?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u4	I can try to do it out of my head, but to adjust the quality now on this day, please allow me another, I hope, relatively short moment. Someone's on their way with a book.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u5	I can ask if there are any questions to the Minister. No, no, no, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u6	Only if you want to make a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u7	Actually, I was hoping for this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u8	Just a nice word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u9	I definitely have a nice word. I promise the Minister if he leaves it at that, he'll have our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u10	I now turn to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I would particularly like to thank Mr Wilders for his kind words. Madam President. December 29, 1696. After a journey full of scurvy and other hardships, Willem de Vlamingh and his crew come ashore. They call it Nova Hollandia, the area now Australia. At present Perth they sail into a estuary. They don't see it right in front of the sun. The birds here have the same long, wavy neck as the birds at home. But they're different. They're swans, and the swans are black. It's hard to understand when you've always assumed that swans are white. The black swan was always there, of course, but not for people who have only seen white swans. Things can be unexpectedly different than you expect. After all, you don't know what you don't know. More than three centuries after the first Dutch people saw black swans, Lebanese-American businessman and scientist Nassim Taleb used the story from Nova Hollandia for his economic theory. The story of The Black Swan, the story of the unknown unknowns, is about highly unlikely events. Actually, it can't, but it happens anyway: a black swan can't be predicted by any economic model. A black swan comes flying in unexpectedly. And a black swan generally has a disruptive effect on society. That disruption is there this year, that disruption is there next year, and if it isn't, then that disruption is there the years after. Taleb himself didn't mention corona as a black swan, because he warned about this crisis in January. So let me speak for myself: I didn't see this coming in January and probably I wasn't the only one. We've been three-quarters of a year, and the damage is huge. Many people have died or become ill. Our kids weren't allowed to go to school. We could not visit family and friends in nursing homes. Much of what was taken for granted, disappeared. Theaters and museums closed their doors, sports games were canceled. Cafés and restaurants had to close, street parties and festivals were cancelled. Many measures have now been made more flexible, but others apply to the present day. And that makes this day so different than usual. The world has also changed economically. It seems like an eternity ago, but in February of this year the economy grew for the 23rd quarter in a row: a growth of nearly six years. In the Netherlands, more people were working than ever. Now we have to deal with the strongest economic contraction since World War II. We have now taken tens of billions of emergency measures and tens of billions of planned revenue has evaporated. And for an important part, the blow still has to come. Next year unemployment will rise, more companies will go bankrupt and public finances will suffer. Moreover, for a number of sectors, the outlook is bleak, especially in the short term. Think of tourism, aviation and large parts of the catering industry. Madam President. And yet there is reason, just now, to look to the future with some confidence. Yes, we are going through a deep valley, but our economic foundations are strong and public finances are well in order. We climb out of the valley and provide perspective. We are therefore making every effort to ensure that the damage to citizens and businesses is limited. As a government, we need to trust and be the stable factor. That's why we're focusing on jobs for now, we're sticking to existing agreements and we're working on the future. Firstly, with regard to today's jobs. We are deliberately extending the support package until next summer. This will ensure a longer period of clarity for employees, self-employed workers and entrepreneurs, especially at an uncertain time. The cabinet also supports people who, whether forced or not, change direction. In the new economic reality, people will find work in new places. There is money for adapting businesses or retraining. And if things don't go well, there's money to avoid debt and poverty as much as possible. We ask for adaptability, but we also offer a helping hand. Secondly, we will continue to keep previous agreements. That is why we continue to invest in society. The 2021 budget is more than restoring the corona crisis. The Climate Agreement is being implemented, so is the pension agreement. The additional investment in education from the government agreement remains. Just like the relief we agreed on last year. And we keep investing. Structurally, EUR 150 million will be added to combat undermining crime. There is an additional budget for combating CO emissions and nitrogen precipitation. This will allow us to build additional homes, and we are also paying almost EUR 300 million for them. Thirdly, in order to cope with today's crisis, we are working on the future. We invest not only for the short but also for the medium and long term, so that future generations can also live in prosperity. That's why we're gonna get to work on what's vulnerable. Like the large amount of flex jobs in the Netherlands. We phase out the self-employed deduction, but we consciously take the time to do so. We are also continuing to green up the tax system. And we're coming up with the National Growth Fund. We're releasing EUR 20 billion for this. In doing so, we invest in those topics that experts at home and abroad have been saying for years that the Netherlands is not doing enough about it: knowledge development, innovation, research and development and infrastructure. With the aim of ensuring that our earning capacity is maintained for the longer term as well. Madam President. We have a difficult phase behind us. And we have a difficult phase ahead of us. But still, I'm looking into the future with some optimism. Of course, this is not a normal budget. Normally it's about changes with percentages behind the decimal point. Now it's different. Moreover, there is a good chance that all those numbers in the Millions note, all those numbers in the briefcase, will be different. It keeps steering in the fog. But we do what is necessary by preparing ourselves for that future. In a re-release of his book, Taleb added a chapter, an essay. A story about robustness. That appeals to me very much. That is exactly what we are working on. With a robust budget, we work together on the future of the Netherlands. We're working on the resilience of our country, because after all, you don't know what you don't know, but you can prepare for it. A budget with economic measures, a budget with figures and figures; such a budget does not, of course, remove the sorrow of those who have lost loved ones. But this budget is preparing us as well as possible for new swans that can fly over. Whatever color they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u13	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for offering the budget for the year 2021. I propose to designate as committees referred to in Rule 32 (2) and 37 (1) of the Rules of Procedure: the Commission for the Intelligence and Security Services... Oh, we need the official moment first. Why don't we do that first? Yes. It used to be with a nice bow. Oh, he's gotta be around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u14	It's got a nice bow tie on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, we'll hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-15-tweedekamer-2.u16	The bow's on nicely. Thank you.
