ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u1	The subject is now the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35505, Amendment of the fiscal statement of the Ministry of Finance for 2020, the sixth incidental supplementary budget on aid measures KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u3	Mr President, thank you. I still have to find my way on this little chair. But if you give me 30 seconds for that, you'll be fine. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to your Members for all the questions and comments they have made. Here and there, Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen and I were able to pay tribute. I would like to say a few things in a general sense. Then I'll talk about the design, the terms, the state agent, the bail-in, the financial position and the future of the marriage that KLM is in. Minister van Nieuwenhuizen will focus on the issues related to the climate, the aviation industry in general and the nuisance and night flights. I do not think there have been many questions, but where relevant she will also say something about the state guarantees. Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I would like to make a few introductory remarks first. On 26 June, we announced what the support package looked like and, of course, we received all kinds of reactions both within society and in society. By the way, many of the conditions could not have come as a surprise, because there was also extensive discussion with the House of Representatives about what conditions would be relevant in the eyes of the Chamber. I think it is very important to say once again, on behalf of the cabinet, to point out once again that we understand very well that all Dutch people whose jobs are under pressure and who are afraid of losing their income or even losing their jobs are very concerned. That goes especially for this company, because it is quite something when you suddenly see that 80%, 90% of the flights are grounded and you realize that this also means that for yourself or for one of your neighbors there is no room. We understand that very much. We have come up with this package precisely because we are serious about the survival of the company. This company, because Schiphol is so vital to the Dutch economy, is also vital to the Dutch economy. That is why we did what we did last year, but we also did what we did this year. At the same time, it is fair and reasonable to set conditions. That is fair and reasonable, also because many of your Members have referred to it. In the end, this is taxpayers' money. We use taxpayers' money through a loan, but still to save jobs and keep the company alive. Mr. Chairman. Many questions have been asked about these conditions and about the design. I am going to start with that, but I would like to comment on the concept of bail-in, which has been mentioned several times. A key document that we shared with the House of Representatives is about: under what conditions do you want to proceed to support? Isn't it obvious if you're dealing with a potential downside as a government, to see if there's also a potential upside? Doesn't it make sense to set strict conditions which will make a company, this company or any other company really economically healthy again to be able to move on? Third. Isn't it obvious that you are also wondering in what social context such a debate is taking place, and that is why you are imposing conditions on the strongest shoulders that must bear the most heavy burdens, both in terms of nuisance and in terms of climate? The Cabinet has considered it necessary to do so. That way we also got to that so-called bail-in. Which brings me to the design. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I will try to do justice to the questioners and appoint them, but many of the questions also went in the same direction. Mr Frentrop, Mr Crone, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Otten, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Vendrik asked questions about the design. Several members asked about the type of aid chosen, namely a guarantee and the loan. The members of the SP Group have asked about the debt position. A number of groups have also asked which scenarios have been considered. GroenLinks specifically asks about the relationship with France. I am going to say a little more about the future of "marriage," but with regard to the relationship with France, I would like to emphasise once again that this is our joint airline. So it's also very obvious that you're pulling in close together. We have done so, in good harmony with our two colleagues. This does not alter the fact that, within the company, however, that is really something different than within the two states, of course, it is not always easy within that marriage and that cultural differences do play a role there. But the two governments have the same intention. That is to ensure that, on the one hand, the national interests of both governments are well and balanced and, on the other hand, that we make this society the best airline in Europe. And honestly, we're not there yet. Why this form of support? The present aid package offers a short-term solution, because the company's demand for help was: provide us with liquidity, just provide us with the cash, the money to get through for the time being. Moreover, the moment of not having enough liquidity was found to lie further in time than had previously been estimated. This can be explained, among other things, by the fact that KLM has made extensive use of the NOW scheme, which was also discussed in the debate for lunch break. The State will, of course, receive appropriate compensation for that risk. A very broad group of banks is involved. These are banks that were already involved in the company. Then you talk to each other about what is reasonable in the risk you ask of banks and what is a reasonable risk they may ask of the State. For example, this is not unique to that combination of the guarantee in respect of a large part of those bank loans, and also a piece of loan that the State makes available directly. Some members have asked: shouldn't you have bought shares? The demand for that share purchase may also arise. For it could well be that I have always argued in the debates with the House of Representatives that later on the need for capital is such that all existing shareholders are asked: if you want to provide capital, you will get shares in return. So that question is still coming, but now it was really, in the short term, a question of liquidity. It is good to recall that important elements of the conditions of this whole package have been the state guarantees. That point belongs primarily to the portfolio of Minister van Nieuwenhuizen, but it is important to mention that it was precisely the reason that prompted the State to acquire shares three years ago. That weakness in protecting that vital infrastructure, with that nine-month notice period, was the key reason to move on to buying shares. The fact that we have been able to extend that to five years is therefore of great importance. Moreover, I would like to say to Mr Otten that these five months will not come now and will end in five years' time. No, those five years apply from the theoretical moment that the company would cancel those guarantees. So you have five years of preparation. That is so dramatic for a long time that the very unlikely scenario of the cancellation of those State guarantees is unlikely, because there is no economic reason for it to become even more unlikely or actually de facto impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u4	I would like to come back to what the Minister just said to the question: why not capital injections? He says that question will be dealt with later. To be honest, that's too easy for me. There are four or five groups in this House, which the Minister himself has just mentioned, who have asked the question: why not capital injections now? The Minister says that will be discussed later. Why is that not the case with him now? From the point of view of my group and of other groups in the House of Representatives who have said so, it was also now on the agenda. So on what grounds, on what basis, did the Minister decide that this is not the case and he says: we are now only going for liquidity support?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u5	Because the cabinet is based on what is needed for the company and secondary from where you can come out, given the lead time. The company has clearly explained to the French State and the Dutch State that it needs liquidity in the short term. I have always been transparent about it, also in the dialogue with the House of Representatives, that a demand for capital might emerge. But the short-term need was just one of cash, where you look primarily at banks and secondary to government. Moreover, if you would like to issue shares, you are tied to a relatively long journey, but all current shareholders have some of that. So I think it is understandable that the company has met the demand for short-term liquidity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u6	It is here that the Minister has information that we as a Chamber do not have, because he always talks about the liquidity needs of KLM and the demand from the company. That is based on confidential information as far as the Minister is concerned. So we don't know what the liquidity requirement was. The Minister could not, when we asked written questions about this, indicate exactly what the need for liquidity was or what the need was. I could also imagine that there was such a need for liquidity, but perhaps a loan of less size could have been sufficient to meet that liquidity requirement. So maybe you could have chosen only guarantees and no loan, or just a loan and no guarantees, or a combination of them, and at the same time you could have opted for capital injections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u7	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u8	The question is again: why exactly this form and no other form? The Minister says that this is because of the company's demand, but he cannot provide an insight into KLM's precise liquidity position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u9	There were two layers in my answer. The first was that there is a short-term liquidity demand from the company. What I have added is that the appreciation of the cabinet is that that is a logical question to ask. In fact, I have the dark brown suspicion that, if it had been the other way around and the cabinet would have entered heavily with capital, groups, including the SP Group, would have asked: why doesn't the minister do it through a loan, because he gets that money back at least once; why does he take that risk and buy those shares? On the contrary, I have always wanted to point out that you have to look at the situation in the company. Next, you look at how you can help the company as best you can, and that's what the whole exercise has finally started, and how you keep the risks to the government as low as possible from an economic point of view. That's why we came up with this formula. Mr Van Apeldoorn will also have noticed that what we are doing here, by the way, with much stricter conditions on the part of the Dutch government, is not in vain much like what the French State has done with regard to Air France.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u10	Mr Van Apeldoorn, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u11	Apparently, the Minister can read my mind or the SP Group's, but he's wrong. Because he says: if I had chosen capital injections, the SP Group would have asked why I had not chosen loans, because at least they will be repaid. But the fact is that if you opt for loans for a company that is already overloaded with debt debt which reduces solvency, the Minister himself clearly admits that in many respects you take the risk one-sidedly to the taxpayer. That's the downside, the risk, while the upside of a possible increase in value in the future, b possible participation in future profits and c more control... You don't have all that stuff when it comes to liquidity support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u12	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u13	On this point, several people, including the minister's predecessor, have pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u14	The Minister and then Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u15	I am not sure whether Mr Van Apeldoorn and I are going to make any progress here. The idea that there should be capital in the company through the Dutch state is in his head unshakable. I am therefore looking forward to the hypothetical moment when the cabinet comes back and puts capital back into the company, because then I know him on my side. But it is important to mark here again that you look at what the company needs. The company has indicated that we simply have a cash problem in the short term. And yes, of course that changes the balance between foreign and equity. And of course, the granting of a loan is not without risk. But I also said in dialogue with the House of Representatives that if we had thought that the probability or the risk was significant that we would not get this money back, we would have agreed on other loan conditions. I think exactly that what we have done about the risk you leave with the banks, about that loan, about those rising percentages and about that state agent... Remember, I repeat once again that the interests of the Netherlands with these state guarantees are firmly guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u16	Just like the previous questioner. We are dealing here with the classic situation that economists call financial distress. Let's not beat around the bush. If the corona crisis lasts a long time... 80% of KLM's coffins are grounded and the boxes that fly aren't even half full. This company is technically bankrupt. I hear from the Minister: yes, we have granted loans, because that was the question of the company. I think every company that's about to go bankrupt needs cash. Of course, it makes sense for people to say: send cash. "Financial distress" situations need to be dealt with in a structural way. The pain should be taken and there should be a structural solution. I understand how it went, but what's happening here is kicking the can down the road. You're kicking the can out in front of you again, but this isn't a solution. Perhaps you and Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen will make it through the end of your ministerial term, but sometime next year or in two years' time this problem will come up again. That depends on how long the crisis lasts. I asked a specific question. In your letter you mention two scenarios: the slow recovery scenario and the prolonged impact scenario. If you fly into something like this, you're gonna see what the liquidity forecast is first. Following on from the previous question, because I have not yet received a clear answer from the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u17	Mr. Otten...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u18	When...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u19	Mr. Otten, what's your question? Your evaluation is really for your second term. The same goes for the other colleagues. So if you'd like to come to a question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u20	What is the liquidity forecast of those scenarios? Because we didn't get an answer to that. And are there any other scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u21	Let me tear Mr Otten's pointy interruption apart in three parts. First of all, our term of office. The length of our term of office is decided in the hands of the States-General, so that is what Mr Otten himself is about. A natural end is foreseen in March next year. That's one. Two. Mr Otten is, of course, quite right when he talks about the measures to be taken because you are dealing with a company which is in extremely heavy weather and which would most likely not survive without the intervention of the government. We agree on that. But that should lead to a great deal of comfort for Mr Otten when it comes to the agreements which the government has made on what needs to be done in the company. For let's face it: despite all the warm feelings we have for this company, it has to be said that the cost base of Air France-KLM was already worse for corona than the average of comparable airlines in Europe. Those who know more about the aviation industry than I have said before Corona that this was potentially problematic. This applies to both subsidiaries: the French part of the company and the Dutch part. It is more true for the French part than for the Dutch, but also the Dutch was not free of that disease. Corona's gonna get over that. Then suddenly 80%, 90% of flights have fallen slightly, to 70% of flights on the ground. That has been exactly the inspiration for Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen and myself and the whole cabinet to say: ladies and gentlemen, something must be done about the costs. Why? Because in three, six or nine months' time, the taxpayer will be back. Then the last piece of the answer to Mr Otten's question: how long can you sing it out? He is right, of course, that there is so much moving through corona that nobody knows exactly, but the estimate now is that we should be able to sing it down to the next calendar year in terms of liquidity. But I am the first to recognise that a scenario in which the whole thing is going to be locked up again will have very different repercussions than when it eventually happens in aviation as quickly as with, for example, the cafés. I do not expect that, but we have all seen that some sectors have opened up much faster than we thought possible a week or six ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u22	Still a follow-up question. This situation was suitable for decisive action. Both Air France and KLM are in a particularly difficult situation. Why wasn't a solution chosen with more control in both KLM and the holding company, possibly a spin-off, especially since Air France costs are higher than KLM? You'll be in control and you'll be in control. Why has the same risk profile been chosen for a solution that has no upside and no significant control? That doesn't make any sense, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u23	If it were true, it would be illogical. I will say more about the future of marriage in a moment, about which it is worth noting. What did the government agree to? The government has made agreements, which have also largely reached the media, which are not only gentle in terms of cost development. That, I think, makes sense. In addition, because it brings acceptance a lot closer politically, the cabinet wanted to make agreements on whether it makes sense to treat a salary of three tonnes differently than a salary of €30,000. In addition, the cabinet has made arrangements about the so-called state agent. I had an exciting experience of this in Mr Otten's first term. If you hit the flare, there's something else, which isn't a little thing. We used this dossier to realize the wish we had to do a year ago, namely to secure the state guarantees. Securitisation has the meaning of a completely different period than the nine months, because at nine months you simply don't have a response time. But we did, and that's pure profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u24	Finally, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u25	I don't hear an answer to my question. My question is: why hasn't a scenario been considered in which you run at the same risk as the Dutch State, have upside, control and control? You don't have that right now. You may have a state agent, which sounds a bit like a James Bond running around there, an agent who has to keep an eye on everything, but de facto control is in France. We couldn't stop the bonus from the top man of Air France-KLM. I don't think there's de facto much control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u26	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u27	So I would like an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u28	Mr Otten early in his first term, I am also asking this question immediately: who is eligible for the status of state agent? Now that he's sticking James Bond on it, I'm getting the feeling that he's actually thinking about himself. But the moment the vacancy leaves, I will give him a notification of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u29	Minister, may I ask you a point of order? We've been at it for half an hour. You have now answered questions for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u30	I was halfway to page one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u31	That's why. How many pages do you have, if I may ask? I'm just trying to plan the evening. Otherwise, it's gonna be a little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u32	I have taken the liberty of taking advantage of the interruptions, which were, of course, otherwise excellent, in order to answer a few questions in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u33	That was my question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u34	I'm still in the block design and conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u35	May I suggest that we give the Minister a chance to answer some questions? He's been talking for three minutes, but we've been at it for half an hour. Then we'll see if there are any additional, short questions. Mr. Crone, you'd like to say something about it, but if you don't push the pedal, no one can hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u36	I would regret that, Mr President, because we have just come to the core of the design of the loans. That's what the three insertions were all about. I would like to ask a supplementary question on that point, otherwise I will have to get it back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u37	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u38	I would like to congratulate the Minister. He said in the beginning...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u39	Yes, but wait a minute, Mr. Crone. Let's get back to the point of order. I think it's excellent. So we are not going to stop the interruptions now, because I cannot say to Mr Van Rooijen'stop your interruptions' when I will let you go. I therefore note that you would like to do all the interruptions. Then we'll do that, and then we'll see what time it's gonna be tonight. My proposal would be to allow the Minister to go on for a few minutes and then make a number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u40	Then I will probably come back to the question about the design of the loan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u41	I understand. You can ask any question you want to ask. No one will deny you that right. But my proposal would be to have the Minister answer a few questions for ten minutes. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u42	I just heard Mr Crone say 'compliment'. I had a vague hope that would swirl my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u43	Yes, then it was time to interrupt him; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u44	Anyway, I know the rules in this house like no other. You're in charge of the order, Mr. Chairman. I've answered a lot of questions about the design. I think I've also appointed... No, I'll add one more thing. That is perhaps a reassuring comment in the direction of Mr Otten. He will have studied the documents in detail and he will also have seen that the loan is still convertible into shares. Maybe that's where we'll get another chance. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll continue with the terms. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked why the trade unions were not involved. That was an echo of the question of the SP Group in the House of Representatives. So the answer may be disappointing, but at least not surprising. We make arrangements with the company. We think it wise to discuss with the company basically what are reasonable and sensible conditions in the eyes of the company and in the eyes of the State of the Netherlands. By the way, who is involved in such a complex arrangement? Well, quite a few parties: the Dutch State, the French State, KLM, Air France-KLM and also eleven banks, I believe. It is therefore not easy to cook soup in a reasonable and sensible way. Then, of course, the discussion on working conditions should not take place at the table of Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen or mine. This should take place within the company. But it is obvious that when we make tax money available, you also wonder what is reasonable and sensible driving from the taxpayer, and what conditions are also considered politically wise by the cabinet, the Lower House and the First Chamber. There are strong feelings, however, I suspect that this is the case in both Chambers, but certainly in the House of Representatives that it is obvious, if there is to be cuts in staff costs, to make the strongest shoulders bear heavier burdens than the less strong shoulders. That whole package means it's now up to the company to talk to each other. The company is also completely free to solve things through secondary or basic conditions of employment. In my view, it is perfectly reasonable that the highest management and pilots should be asked for something different than those with less than a moral salary. In my opinion, Mr Van Rooijen's question went more or less in the same direction. I would also like to say to him: it is up to the company to structure it. There too, it will be necessary to consider to what extent things must be done by natural means and to what extent there is still a need for forced dismissal, and how exactly one wants to implement the demand for a wage sacrifice. Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight a few things, including the other questioners at this point. Anyone who has followed the reports in the press will have seen that the pilots turn 45% in to Lufthansa. Those who have followed the news in the press will have seen thousands of people fired from British Airways. And anyone who has read the documents of the debate in the Lower House will have noticed that KLM's board chairman is turning in around 50% of his salary. That is about the situation we find ourselves in. I would therefore ask for some understanding of this approach of the cabinet. Mr Van Rooijen had another question. In addition, I think he put the finger in the sore spot. He asked how it was possible that on the French side there was not a wage sacrifice I would like to say: no wage sacrifice has yet been requested and whether that makes it extra complicated. I'm about to say more about marriage. But fair is fair: the salaries of at least part of the management, but also of other parts of the company are higher on the French side than on the Dutch side. On the French side of the company, there is certainly such a large cost savings estimate as on the Dutch side. Mr Van Rooijen can therefore imagine that the cabinet has indicated that it really deserves to be considered seriously on the French side, not only on the basis of a kind of principle of honesty within the same undertaking but simply on the basis of business logic. At the same time, of course, I have less influence on that. The State is a 14% shareholder. We all know, also from the bonus discussion, that 80% of the shareholders feel differently from the Dutch government about the salary of the CEO of the group. Mr Schalk asked what would happen to the Stoffer motion. I've given them judgment room. This means that this is being implemented in the Cabinet. There's contact with the company. At the same time, we are not going to change the package now. The Stoffer motion is very intelligently formulated. He's asking to take it with him. That's an assignment to the company. The Steoffer motion is still doing something intelligent, because I think it is talking about household income, family income or family income. Moreover, this is quite a complicated task at a negotiating table between employer and employees. But it does offer an outlet, because in the text of the motion, I believe, it is not just about the wages that the KLM employees earn. Mr Frentrop asked if I am prepared to change the terms when they are not to be worn. It is precisely because we have talked so extensively with the company that I think it should be possible under these conditions. If the company really had the feeling that this would be unbearable, we would have agreed something else. I would therefore like to give the company with all those involved a chance to come out together. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the state agent and Mr. Pijlman's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u45	Mr Van Rooijen. I'm sorry, Mr. Schalk, but Mr. Van Rooijen had already come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u46	I think the block is over now. I heard the Minister say at the beginning what the reason for the purchase of that 14% was. He said that I thought it was a very important remark... that due to those nine months there was so much pressure on the Dutch side that those nine months were very worrying and that something could go completely wrong very quickly. That's why the minister bought those shares. I do not want to reverse the reasoning, but from the fact that this security is now much greater, as the Minister says, with those five years after termination, I should not be allowed to deduce that that would be a reason for maybe not doing it anymore. That's the first question I have. My second question is this. This morning I also mentioned the fact that the French package and the Dutch package are very similar. Is that not the reason, at the latest or first, that the Dutch package, which came considerably later and where the pressure was greater because France had already done it, was a kind of convergence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u47	Let me start with that last question. It is true, for example, that there is a parallel between what the French have agreed for Air France and what we have agreed for KLM. At the same time, we have found it important, precisely to offer the company a reasonable chance of success and to deal wisely with taxpayers' money, to make sharp agreements on the front of the company's costs. It has been said in France that this conversation should also be held, but it has been decided that it should be transferred to the company in the first place and has not been explicitly agreed on it. That is where another choice has been made. It is precisely in view of the company's history, with a cost-based basis for questioning that I should like to say carefully and considering this dramatic period, including as regards costs, that we thought it would be wise to make agreements at the front. Because then you know what you're up to. Let's talk about 14%. Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen is much more evocative of the state guarantees than I am, but the fear which existed especially far before this cabinet period in the Lower House was that in theory, although KLM had benefited greatly from this marriage in the longer past, it would be possible for those state guarantees to be cancelled from one moment to another and that nine months later flights could be rerouted from Schiphol to Charles de Gaulle or to another place. I think that several Cabinets, but certainly the House of Representatives, have been quite right to be afraid of a theoretical possibility at the moment in time, because there is no business logic to do so, because this is a weak spot when you realize that this is so vital for the infrastructure of the Netherlands. And so the cabinet has said: we must have a stronger place at the table there. That's why we bought that 14%. This has brought all kinds of benefits in how you're being treated, how you get information to you and so on, and so on. You don't have the majority, but of course you have a lot more to say. The combination of that 14% and this package has also made it possible to extend these state guarantees. Mr Van Rooijen may well know that I think that two years had been quite a reasonable period. Everyone who has been active in business recognizes that five years is a hugely long period. If you have managed to achieve that notice, you know that you can prepare yourself to the point or that it never happens. That's exactly the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u48	I will not now, for the sake of time, repeat all kinds of compliments, but the Minister has, of course, been paying attention during my term. I gave four in the first term, but he goes for six or seven of course at the end of the second term. But I'll come back to the loan, because that's a serious business anyway. One of my compliments was that you'll take the money out of it. So it does happen. The design is under discussion with me. You say that the company needs liquidity, but that has now been given the cheapest, namely a subordinated loan. The company could also have received a preferential loan. That would have been better for the taxpayer, because then the others would have to repay this to the government first. We'd have had some sort of bail-in. A preferential loan and shares are therefore even cheaper, because then you deposit money and only have to pay them when there is a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u49	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u50	The question is why you have not taken the cheapest solution for taxpayers. That's the preferential loan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u51	Because with banks of course you look at the total package. Of course, you could also have said that we are making a preferential loan, but the question is whether you would have gotten banks on that 90% or if they would have said whether they would want a 100% guarantee. That is a negotiation in which you try to reach rates that are reasonable for the company and which are, at the same time, sensible and acceptable for the taxpayer. If you compare this with many of the things we agree on, I think that this is really very balanced and also very well defendable. For remember: in all the discussions we have with each other about the emergency points of economic affairs, where the banks and economic affairs make money available, it is not entirely coincidental that it is often about a percentage of almost 90%. Moreover, many in the Chamber say: why does the State not guarantee 100%, such as under conditions such as those in Germany and Switzerland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u52	I am not saying in advance that every choice is a stupid mistake, but I think it is the opposite in the balance sheet. All lenders of all their own debt are in favour of taxpayers, because they are disadvantaged. If you had an issue, it would have been the other way around: we would have the upside and the company would not have the extra interest charges. That was better for the company, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u53	Apart from the speed with which you can do such a thing, you are really in a complicated situation, which Mr Crone will recognize. So you're gonna have to spend stock. You didn't arrange that at an afternoon. Then you need to talk to all your existing shareholders. Mr Crone knows that a Chinese and American company has a substantial package of shares. The question is whether they will be able to do so, because they have a similar problem to Air France-KLM, and whether they will be inclined to participate in another round. It leads to all sorts of repercussions. Moreover, it is a question that remains to be seen, is my cautious assessment, while there was now just the need for money to survive. I hope that I have been able to explain why we consider the distinction between a subordinated loan, but that 90%, ultimately balanced and acceptable compared to debt securities in theory, to be at least a possibility of preferential and, for example, 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u54	Mr Crone, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u55	Yeah, one last comment. I don't mean cynical at all, but it was easy to do it so that if you came to 30%, the rest would have to make an offer and then take it over. That was cheaper now than the loan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u56	This is really your last question, Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u57	I know it's complicated, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u58	It is good that Mr Crone knows that detail, because it is indeed so. There are indeed people who sometimes insist on buying more shares or say that we should sell those shares again. Look, at 14%, you're one of the two big shareholders. The French system works in such a way that if you buy 30% you can buy it, because parties have to sell it to you. The question is whether the taxpayer alone would like to be the owner of this company. Apparently, the thoughts of the First Parliamentary Group of the Labour Party go in this direction, but, frankly, there is still a bit to be desired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u59	Temporarily, if...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u60	No, Mr. Crone, I'm really going to see Mr. Schalk right now. You were able to ask three questions. The deal was three questions. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u61	But, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u62	Mr President, explain Mr Otten's number of interruptions. By the way, I'm gonna give it to him. I make very short sentences and I get short answers. My final remark is that the Court of Auditors also says: as first shares, shares, shares, because then you will not only have the upside, but can also get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u63	Then I'm really going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u64	I follow the Court of Auditors in this respect, Mr President. It's really not just PvdA policy. It's pretty common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u65	I shall now go to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u66	As high as I am in the Court of Auditors, I think you should look at the case for case. I think buying shares is always too one-dimensionally formulated. Still, let's say we do that, say we buy 30% and make an offer on the company. This means that the Dutch Finance Minister is the problem owner of the negotiations with French trade unions the next day. That is the reality. The business economy and the political swamp in which you then possibly go, is for the Dutch State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u67	I shall now turn to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u68	I want to get back to the simpler and clearer subject, though painful, of the wage offering. The Minister just said something about that. My colleague, Mr Stoffer, spoke on the other side of the House about the family budget for middle incomes. Well, that makes it a little more straightforward. Now the Minister has quite rightly said that he, as a minister, should of course not conduct those negotiations, but that this belongs to the trade unions. However, in the Lower House, the Minister gave the Chamber's ruling and thus also assumed a certain obligation. He has indicated that there has been contact by now, but in what way is that worked out? Does that give him feedback? I also asked if there could be a return. When's the payoffer gonna stop again? Is there any compensation? Is that what you're taking with you in these trade-offs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u69	The latter is also up to the company, but it is not obvious. I understand that Mr Schalk is critical of the fact that I gave the SGP motion judgment Chamber. I could, of course, reconsider that. That's a little complicated under state law, but if he insists and insists, I might have to take the break for that. I thought I could see the space in precisely the fundamental distinction between the SGP motion and the SP motion. The contribution of the SP was extremely critical. Why didn't we talk to unions and why was it about employers and employees? Then it ended with a motion that forced me to settle it acutely there in the Lower House. I didn't think that was sensible or entirely consistent. On the contrary, the SGP motion left a lot of room for manoeuvre, because that was about the family budget. That was indeed the correct wording. Moreover, this was also a subject to be looked at again, without any obligation to do so. Of course, I don't want to go one way or the other. I am not helping anyone to figure out that package that we talked about for months with the company, with the French state, with Air France-KLM and with eleven banks, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u70	That's exactly what I meant, so thank you. It also has a sequel. You're in and out of conversation. Is there any monitoring towards the future at what time you can stop that again? What was the company's reaction when it came to those middle incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u71	On that first point, I say that these agreements apply for the period in which the government provides support. I think that is reasonable, because after that it is up to the company to decide how they want to act. To be honest, I do not think it is wise to explain in detail what has been discussed with the company on that second point. The company realizes that when I give a motion judgment Chamber, which politically means that I accept a positive basic position. But I have also clearly highlighted in that debate, with the appreciation of the motion, that I really thought it was up to the company and that the company itself should consider whether that is possible and reasonable. How that will ultimately crystallise, that must tell the future, because one still has to talk to trade unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u72	Mr. Schalk, third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u73	I think that is a cautious but crystal clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u74	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u75	As far as control and control and all kinds of capital acquisition are concerned, I will return to the second term. I would like to return to my previous answer to a question by the Minister about the role of the trade unions and why the workers have not been involved in any way. The Minister's answer is: we as a government are talking to the company, point. I wonder if the company is not also the employees. Do I understand correctly that for the minister, the company is the management?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u76	What exactly does Mr Van Apeldoorn think I will say to that? It is always good to open a verbal trap, but this is so obvious that with his permission I walk around it. Of course there are all kinds of stakeholders in a company, but it is also perfectly logical that when the agreements are made about a loan, the supervisory board and the board of directors are the contact person. I know the SP would like to see that different, but they are ultimately the ones representing the company. I am right in saying that it is up to them to make agreements with employees. However, we felt that it was sensible, but I repeat myself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to make it clear that something needs to be done about the cost base. That's one. Two: as far as we are concerned, it is really very important to treat a salary of modal size differently from a salary such as that of the chairman of the board, about a million, or of pilots, in some cases three tonnes. If Mr Van Apeldoorn wishes to remove something from the latter, I will take that into account in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u77	It is true, the Minister is quite right that the SP would like to see that different when it comes to the question of who the company should be. My point was that one way or another you could have involved employees in the consultation at this stage. I also have a question about these modal salaries. It is clear that the trade unions feel passed and are also angry. I wonder if the Minister recognizes that. Perhaps it would have come out of that discussion that these modal salaries are very modest salaries, and that you will therefore refrain from doing so. Now they're asking for some of that too. Does the Minister consider that reasonable and fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u78	With all the sentiments of appreciation towards Mr Van Apeldoorn, I say: it is not right, not even linguistically. He says modal salaries are very modest salaries. Well, modal salaries are first and foremost modal salaries. In the piece that was also discussed with the House of Representatives, it is also stated in the letter "We have just agreed that we will spare modal salaries and submodal salaries for the full 100%. It is Mr Van Apeldoorn's right to be critical then, but if there is one part of the package he should be enthusiastic about from his political point of view, that would be it. People with small salaries, who often work in the ground department and therefore do not work in the cabin, who do not work in the cockpit and who do not work in the management, we have tried to avoid. If we hadn't agreed, the cost savings would of course have been cut by the entire staff. That would have been the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u79	Mr Van Apeldoorn for his third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u80	Let it be clear for the record that the SP Group is pleased that there is a distinction between lower and higher salaries and that the lower salaries do not have to turn in under modal and the higher salaries do. As far as we are concerned, we could have done it from one and a half times. So it's also a weighting in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u81	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u82	The Minister indicated how much the KLM top man, Mr Elbers, had to turn in. He's talking about 50%. Just for the sake of precision: 50% of the terms of employment is, I think, including the bonus. I'd say the bonus isn't on the table anyway, as long as you're still on the state drip. So how much does Mr Elbers now have to turn in his basic salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u83	The Minister and then I go to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u84	I can see the ambition of Mr Van Apeldoorn to try to limit salaries, especially this salary, here or at least get control of them. That salary is, to a very large extent, a so-called flexible component. We agreed on this: it is no longer the time for bonuses, so that component expires. Then you've lost about half the salary. Then there is my second comment. Modal is really just fashionable. I think I remember that the Socialist Party, in particular, has its own representatives in the House of Representatives returning the whole amount above the modal part to the party treasury and not one and a half times. So that's where I'd be looking for even more consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u85	Mr Otten with a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u86	Let me return to the question raised by Mr Crone, among others. The government has now set aside 4 billion for this. There is one billion subordinated loans. I can see why it's a subordinated loan, because that's just quasi equity, otherwise those banks won't agree. That's subordinated. That's basically equity. What we see here is a piece of bad dealing. I spoke to the Minister at the beginning of the corona crisis and said: take the initiative on the French, otherwise you will die as a Dutch state, so take the initiative. That didn't happen. On a Friday evening we see Bruno Le Maire suddenly giving a press conference and Minister Hoekstra arrives an hour later stunned with Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen and tells us something. Why didn't the initiative be taken at the start of the crisis and didn't an equity injection or a spin-off of the KLM have been chosen, because that could have been the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u87	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u88	The whole company is worth 1.7 billion on the stock market. Then you could have bought it. Then you could have bought KLM and sold the French shares again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u89	I believe that the question about the injection of shares has been answered a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u90	I'd be happy to go into it again with all kinds of pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u91	It's not about top salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u92	I didn't want to bring that up either. From time to time I get the feeling that we can best get Mr Otten to do all the deals in the Netherlands, because it sounds like it would matter a few cents, but I'm going to say two more things, also to Mr Otten in all friendship. He said in a way: that subordinated loan is just a way to convert into shares. This sheds another light on his suggestion in his previous interruption, in which he insisted on obtaining shares. Then there is the second point. I can only talk in a confidential setting about the conversations that are taking place with the French state. However, I can point out to Mr Otten that I have also done so on a number of occasions that, before the Friday evening on which my French colleague gave his press conference, there has been very intensive contact at political level but also at official level for weeks. You're dealing with two different situations. In France you are dealing with a much larger group of companies for which aid has been provided. Mr Otten is undoubtedly also aware of the situation in Renault. But there are more French companies for which a similar recipe has applied. We were only dealing with KLM. The second important distinction is that the water Air France was much more on the lips than KLM. We had not only the NOW scheme, but also the liquidity position of KLM was and is significantly better than that of Air France. So that's the second thing that plays along. The third thing that is involved is that I have spent a large part of my first term on this. We thought detailed conditions were sensible. We have concluded with the French that we simply have a different perspective on this, but we have done so in great and good harmony. We kept each other well informed of how, what, where and when.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u93	Mr Otten, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u94	This is an interesting paradox of the Minister's approach to the risk profile of equity, but without the onside. If the company falls over, you lose your subordinated loan. If you have stock, you can do something with it if you're okay. But if it goes well, you won't get anything extra for your subordinated loan. So that's a misdemeanour; I'm not going along with that. But my question remains. We can wait for the French every time, but you can see what comes of it: you are behind the facts. Why wasn't a more proactive approach taken at the start of the crisis to a way in which the Dutch interests could be securitised with more control, independently of Air France? That is my question and I still have no answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u95	So that is the same question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u96	Mr President, it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u97	Minister, may I ask you to answer briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u98	Yes, because otherwise I'm gonna have a fight with Mr Crone. In his view, my answers should not be longer in his direction than they should at least be shorter in Mr Otten's direction. I think it is the same question. The argument put forward by Mr Otten is that the Dutch Government would have taken no or too little initiative in this regard. That is completely the truth, but it is not up to me to comment in a public meeting on what type of conversations we have had at what time. So I can only say that things are really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u99	Before the minister joins the state agent, I have a brief question. I said that this package is balanced. Speed was required, also with the KLM, for liquidity purposes. But there are two things that stand out in the package: the 90% guarantee that's high, even if you look at other rescue operations and the subordinated loan. My question at first was: what does that say about the trust that private investors have in this whole rescue operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u100	That is a good and fair question. On the one hand, I think it can be seen that this is an undertaking in very heavy weather. By the way, we didn't happen to come out on this group of banks, because these banks were all very well-known or almost all of them, but I believe that in one way or another they are already connected to the company as a banker. So they know the situation. On the other hand, it is obvious to the balance sheet of these banks that the importance of Schiphol and therefore of KLM is so great for the Netherlands that this is really something other than a cookie factory that 90% of the cookies can no longer sell. Because the willingness of the Dutch state to intervene, not only in the cabinet, but also, of course, very broad in the Chamber, also gives banks confidence. Then you get to a type of puzzle. It has not yet been the subject of an important wish of ours, but I think it is important that we should name it here and then re-tranche that money. Mr. Chairman. I was with Mr Pijlman and I remain with Mr Pijlman. He asked about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u101	How far along are you with your cubes? 'Cause we're also gonna be hearing from the minister next to you. I'm trying to plan it a little bit in terms of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u102	I think I need less than 15 minutes without interruptions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u103	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u104	That wasn't supposed to be ironic, but apparently that's how it's understood. Mr Pijlman asked: who oversees these conditions? Of course, we wanted to appoint this state agent, so that we do not have to call the Treasury's thesaurier general constantly and see how things stand. We have done this so that someone can have direct access and then, where relevant, pass on to the cabinet what the concerns are, what is going well and what is still under consideration, without such a person playing a typical supervisory role. This, of course, has all kinds of advantages and disadvantages in governance, but that also disturbs the balance sheet. I think Mr Pijlman will recognize that. That's why we came out on the state agent. Mr Frentrop asked: could the package not be extended, for example with conditions and competitiveness? I understand the inspiration behind that question. Of course, we have also looked at the question ourselves: what would you want someone like that to do? We have thought that it would be wise to have this person monitored as closely as possible. That's also the most reciprocal thing. We make this money available as a loan. There are certain conditions. Those are actually the conditions that this debate is about. And of course it's tempting to think: can't you expand it further? But at the end of the day, we didn't think that was entirely a choice either. You should actually try to arrange that through your Commissioners on the Supervisory Board of KLM and in the holding company. So that's why we came up with that. I've already answered the question of who's going to be the state agent. Mr. Chairman. Then the financial position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u105	Mr. Otten's coming in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u106	Mr. Chairman. You're thinking, he's running! But the application still has to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u107	Maybe I missed something, but who's gonna be this agent 007 who's gonna keep an eye on everything at the KLM for Hoekstra? I haven't heard that yet. Or did I miss that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u108	No, Mr President, I said that in the event of an application coming up, I understand that at least one of the members of your Chamber is going to write a letter. And I hereby make a promise that I will personally let that letter pass through my hands. But we haven't found anyone yet. We will undoubtedly be talking about this this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u109	My comments and questions about the state agent are certainly not meant as an open application. My question was, what kind of profile would a state agent have? I already told you in my first term that that must be a streetwise cop who understands how the hares run. Otherwise, this money will somehow end up in Paris via passenger flows or transfer pricing. And that's exactly what we're trying to prevent. Apparently, the deal is to ring it up. It's ringfenced at KLM. We can't let that money out of there. Then who's it gonna be? What kind of type is that gonna do? That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u110	I had not thought at all of including'streetwise' in the criteria, but I will do so. So thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u111	I asked questions about the bail-in, about the other private lenders of loans and so on. Has a haircut of 15% of them been considered, for example? You mention in the letter that it will be discussed in the context of the Nijboer motion in the near future. Can we have expectations in that area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u112	It is right that they should be asked to do so. I think it was Mr Crone and Mr Van Apeldoorn who asked for the bail-in. There's a few components in there. You could argue.I would also like to argue that part of the bail-in takes place in relation to the management and part of the staff. With the second important point, I think, I am also going in the direction of Mr Crone. In any case, it was an important point of attention with his party colleague in the House of Representatives. That is the question: how do you ensure that bail-in is also requested from other parties in the chain, the so-called chain partners? Think of aircraft leasing companies, think of kerosene suppliers, and so on. That is what the company has said to us: we want to, but we simply need more time to do so. So that part's still coming. And then, of course, the third question, which Mr Crone has rightly asked: will there not be a moment when you should also ask the shareholders for bail-in? I think that is a logical question too, but that is a question that actually plays most when you are going to provide capital. But this is, of course, exactly where many of the European packages on how to deal with banks in a banking crisis... On Dutch initiative, we moved much more on the side of bail-in, because in the end you find it more reasonable to appeal to shareholders and bondholders than to appeal to the taxpayer. So I very much agree with Mr Crone. I hope I'm both in quality and length...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u113	Yes, planned in time: is there a link to the next tranche? Because I understand that the loans are not paid out in one go. Then you still have a weapon in your hand. Otherwise, of course, they won't do anything, because then the government will pay again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u114	That would imply that I'm going to change the terms again. I think our signature should be worth something, too. There's a signature underneath of the Dutch State. I think we should con amore these conditions, with the pluses and the mins. It is true, however, that if some of the conditions that exist today were not to be implemented, that could give reason to step on the brake in the tranche ring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u115	Mr Crone, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u116	But we're not here as parliament for nothing. The House of Representatives has also made a heavy effort on this issue, so you can at least bet on: I can't get my parliament along, so that second tranche... I understand you've already signed, but there have to be options.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u117	Yes and no, I guess. Of course, I very much agree with the inspiration, because I think that the question is also reasonable to place part of the account with the chain partners. That is also why I was benevolent, for example in the direction of the House of Representatives, which was about bail-in with regard to that share purchase. At the same time, pacta sunt servanda applies here too, however difficult you may find it with regard to all the wishes you still have. A deal is just a deal. I also think it is wise to say as a State of the Netherlands: we have signed it and we have attached a number of conditions to it. It is not so pure to say in three months' time that I, inspired by the Senate, have shook a few additional conditions from my sleeve and that they must also be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u118	On all the issues surrounding bail-in, I believe that we have no insight into the confidential information, the business confidential information that the minister has. The first question on this: is it confidentially shared with members of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u119	The House of Representatives has been kept confidential a few times. What the House of Representatives has been updated about, is confidential, so I can only indicate in a confidential session what is confidentially shared with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u120	Okay, well, that's what we're gonna do for the moment. This is, of course, the familiar circle of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u121	I hope that Mr Vendrik will understand that too, because this is not only about price sensitive information, but also about business sensitive information. It is perfectly logical that the controlling power also wants to control the government. That is why a very detailed letter has been sent to the States-General, but there are also things that the executive should be able to negotiate with market players without being made available to them. That's how it's supposed to be, I think, in the division of roles we have in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u122	In the same way, it is difficult for the Senate to have budgetary rights and for the Minister to ask the Senate as a whole to agree to spend EUR 3.4 billion public money or at least to commit itself to doing so. That too, I think, is very important. But we'll save that for another moment, because this is always sanding and I think we can sort it out just as well here after the summer. My question, I fear, is hampered by a lack of knowledge. It is about the bail-in of parties who are not involved in this deal, as we read in the Minister's public information. These are holders of corporate bonds KLM, those are fuel contracts, the holders of those contracts and any forwards, those are the leasing companies...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u123	What's your question, Mr. Vendrik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u124	My question is this. They're not involved in this deal. Then the State has given away a moment of power, of influence. In the second instance, it becomes very complicated to seduce these parties to accept a form of haircut. Why didn't that happen in the first round? This was clearly also the starting point of the general framework of state aid that the cabinet has drawn up for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u125	Because the company has indicated that it needs more time to do so. There is no misunderstanding in the company, in the cabinet, and in the Senate too, I think there is no misunderstanding about the logic of content and, by the way, the business logic of putting a part of your account somewhere else. Moreover, we must realise that this account must also be able to be paid there, because some of the contracting parties are also Dutch entrepreneurs. It's not just big foreign lease companies where you can park the account. The company itself has insisted on taking the time for this and not taking all of this into one round. There was a first piece to the question, but was there a second question I should have answered or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u126	Mr. Vendrik, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u127	If these parties are not involved in this deal because of lack of time and because of KLM's question, so at the moment they are not affected by the fact that KLM is in a bad situation and are thus getting away with the risk they have knowingly taken, why is this contribution already being asked of the staff, however logical that is anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u128	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u129	Why are we already making arrangements for the staff, when we are not asking others, chain parties, financial stakeholders, to contribute to this package now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u130	The Minister. That was your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u131	Because, of course, you're trying to see what wishes we have. Some of them are different, also within the Chamber and within the House of Representatives, but they also have a certain degree of uniformity. You also have to deal with the economic situation and you don't want to delay that discussion indefinitely. I've been publicly saying that I don't want to be the owner of haste, because then you pay a higher bill. But I also didn't think it was wise to prolong this debate for another three months, so that you finally arranged everything, because the firm's strong desire was: "Now give us the opportunity to have many of these conversations yourself, as in the end the conversation about working conditions. Give us the opportunity to have our own conversation with the chain partners without us having to settle all that at the front. Because maybe it doesn't work out and then such a whole deal becomes dependent on: are you out with everything and everyone?" I thought that was a reasonable request from the company. See also why we have not done anything specific about the working conditions, but have agreed a direction on the impactable costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u132	Minister, how much you got left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u133	Actually, I only have one final piece, and that's about the future of marriage. Many of the questions were directed directly or indirectly at this. Mr Pijlman asked about it and also Mr Otten, who talked about a fly-away scenario. I'd like to say a few things about it. It is important to mark again, even here, that it starts with why these two companies have gone together. It's important to realize that KLM at that time I thought that 2003 was a loss-making company that struggled to find a partner, especially a partner that would allow the company to survive in a form of relative independence. That's the beginning of the song. At that time, agreements were made with Air France and then both parties benefited greatly from that marriage. KLM has grown much harder in that marriage than Air France, but both parties have benefited from it. It is not for nothing that our external advisors keep saying that the combination of the Schiphol hub with its strong focus on Asia but also the strong focus on the United States combined with the large French home market and flights from Paris to francophone Africa brings a lot of synergy in the aviation industry. That's the good news, because that means you have a very good business case with marriage. At the same time, another part of the story that KLM has made much more profit in recent years, although it also has a contract with regard to costs, is a smaller assignment than the French part of the company, and much of the profits have been generated by the Dutch part and not by the French part. In addition, the company is now in a very difficult phase. Although the relationship between the two governments is really good, it is not always easy in terms of culture within the company. There are many things that go well, but not everything goes well. That means, precisely because we are at such a key moment in history, that Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen and I have said in dialogue with the French state, but primarily in dialogue with the company, that this will be a period in which we must look closely at the future. Then it is most obvious to further improve this marriage, precisely because of its synergy, precisely because of its history, precisely because of the fact that we are in this marriage. So scenario one is: just make the best of marriage. Scenario two is that you could imagine continuing with the combination, but finding another form of collaboration. You could call it a latrine. The third scenario, but I wouldn't be in advance, is the fly-away scenario. Then you come to a managed break-up and then you both go apart. Apart from the transition costs involved, this means that you have also lost the synergy and you have to ask yourself again whether you want to go on alone or with someone else. We have agreed with the company and with the French state that we will make use of the next period, we wanted to do so ourselves, but there are also motions in that direction that call for us to examine how we are going to proceed. In addition, the primary aim is to further improve that marriage that we are in, because it is the easiest and there is also a strong business logic for it. For scenario two there is also a lot to say, but scenario three has significant hooks and eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u134	That puts you at the end of the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u135	Yes. We're gonna do half an hour of interruptions, I hope, but I'm at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u136	Before I give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State for the second part of this first term, I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u137	I liked the Minister's lock. He mentioned three scenarios, clearly as far as attractiveness is concerned. At the first, I have a specific question. I feel like the relationship at state level is pretty good. I have the impression that the company between KLM and Air France is still rather worrying. What would you like as a sort of real estate agent here and publicly or not yet in public; then we will later be able to recommend it to make that marriage stronger? Because saying that is one thing, but the art is, and that's very difficult in a relationship that's under stress to do it. Can the Minister say anything about that? 'Cause I think that's the key.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u138	On that first point, I recognize the observation that the contacts between the Dutch and French states are intensive and generally very good. Of course, we do not agree on all issues, not even on all European issues, but when you compare them with about twenty years ago, relations are much more intensive. This has partly to do with the Brexit and partly with the realization, at least on the Dutch side, no matter how important France is to us. This is true at the level of the Prime Minister and the French President, but certainly at the level of my French colleague and myself. As for saying something about it publicly. In the end, this is not a consolation. This is an enterprise. It must carry people and goods under certain ethical conditions, and it must do so in such a way that money is made. I think the best recipe for success in the end is to set the parameters in such a way that this enterprise can be as successful as possible and just do what it is for on earth. That's, I think, the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u139	I'm gonna cut it off a little bit now, because it's gonna be really late. Mr. Van Rooijen, do you have a follow-up question or can you do it in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u140	I do not hear such a clear answer, which I do understand somewhat. When I talk about the culture of KLM and the culture of Air France within that group, we all know that there is a huge gap between them. If you ever talk to people within KLM and within Air France, you don't hear any fun things about Air France at KLM and no fun things about KLM at Air France. Let me put it this way anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u141	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u142	That was the question, but I didn't have a very clear answer. My question is: what could you, as a broker, do to bring the culture of the two states, which are actually good, closer together and to reduce tensions? Otherwise, that will remain a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u143	Mr. Van Rooijen, you're repeating the same question. So, Minister, maybe you can answer him briefly and maybe in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u144	Well, yeah... yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u145	I have heard the Minister reply, but you are not satisfied with the answer. That's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u146	I don't suppose I'll get him in second term either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u147	As it is always with cultural differences, there is an assignment on both sides of the company to be part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u148	Mr Otten then for a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u149	A brief supplementary question to that of Mr Van Rooijen. Minister Hoekstra talks about a marriage that doesn't quite function well. One partner spends a lot more money than the other. He's talking about a lath relationship. Then you have a marriage that doesn't go well, and then Minister Hoekstra's solution is: your money goes into your pot and the other one has to do it in his own pot, and then some James Bond keeps an eye out for you not to grab out of my pot. Is that a solution to this dysfunctional marriage? I think this is just a temporary solution. How are you going to solve these marital problems effectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u150	The Minister and then Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u151	I have just indicated what the cabinet intended with the package as it is now on the table. That is what this debate is about. That is the stage we have now completed. I also indicated that the company is in an existential crisis and that this is the time to look at future scenarios, where the preferred option, if possible, is to significantly improve marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u152	Mr Van Apeldoorn, you too have the request: one short supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u153	Yes, Mr President, it is a different subject. I have also put some questions to the Minister about the lack of information to Parliament, referring to Article 68 of the Constitution. Now the Minister may think that he has already answered this in response to questions from Mr Vendrik, but I find this really problematic. The minister says: there is a certain division of roles between the executive and the controlling power. But we're co-legislators. Of course, the Minister knows that very well. As co-legislator, we are asked to decide on a package of EUR 3.4 billion based on information that is all confidential. Now I have two brief questions for the Minister. One, are all the information where this is concerned and all the arrangements with the KLM that have been put on paper, company confidential or couldn't a part of it have been shared with us in public? And a second short question is: is the Minister aware of the opinion of the General Court that says not to skip the Upper Chamber when sharing confidential information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u154	On that last point, that is why we are having this debate. That is why the First Chamber itself received confidential letters from the Cabinet on this subject. That will not have escaped Mr Van Apeldoorn. Furthermore, we are still informed and advised by the Council of State on the interpretation of the General Court of the Compatibility Act. On his first point: I am not saying it quickly, but I hope that Mr Van Apeldoorn will not fail the cabinet either. To be honest, we have worked very hard to provide the Chamber with adequate information on this by providing this Chamber with confidential information, by writing a very comprehensive letter on what has been negotiated and by keeping the other Chamber of the States General confidential. If the First Chamber would say that, despite the division of roles as she sees it as hers in the state system, she also needs that type of confidential briefing, it is up to the First Chamber. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u155	Then I suggest that we give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u156	Everything's been decontaminated. I'm all set. I would like to thank Members for their questions. It feels a little uncomfortable towards the senators of GroenLinks and the SP because I'm a little bit with my back towards you, but that's just... Oh, there's one! You guys are one of them, I'll tell you what. In any case, we can see most of the speakers. I can still see Mr Vendrik from my corners of the eye. Mr Hoekstra has just mentioned marriage several times. Let me start with that by pointing out that the marriage between IenW and Finance is in very good condition. I have been able to see this again because the questions that have been asked about the state guarantees, which are covered by my portfolio, have actually been answered to a very large extent by Mr Hoekstra. That's just fine, because then we'll go through it faster. I can only remind you that Mr Van Rooijen formulated it most sharply and really struck the nail on the head as far as I am concerned. He indicated that the crucial importance for this hub function, including for the Netherlands, is of course that we have that nine months... It's a notice period. It is not as if these state guarantees have been in force for five years. It's a five-year notice period. We have achieved that, and that is really crucial, because it is indeed, as you said, Dutch permits and Dutch traffic rights. We have a very large network with all kinds of bilateral treaties and it is of the utmost importance that we keep it up. So that offers peace and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u157	I have a question about this. I noticed that during my first term, the Minister was a little head-shaking when I said, "Why didn't you guys arrange a longer notice period?" You're throwing so much billion at it now that you could've chosen ten or twenty years. Why was it specifically chosen for five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u158	No specific choice has been made for five years. You want it as long as you can, of course. I said in the Second Chamber debate: you would, of course, like to have it infinitely. But we come from a situation of nine months and that is, of course, the other extreme. What matters to us is that strategic decisions, for example... Moreover, there is no reason for this at present. But what if, in the future, one could come up with the idea of concentrating everything in Paris, on Charles de Gaulle, because of any serious economic crisis? We now have five years to oppose it and to take them away from such an unsavoury idea. That is really something quite different than nine months, because then you can be more or less attacked by it and that is not possible anymore. If you have to announce a strategic decision five years in advance, then we really have enough time to use all our creativity to avert that disaster. In any case, it is a huge improvement over nine months, so we have really counted our blessings. Once again, in the House of Representatives and in the debates we have had in recent years, it has already been said: even if you only get two years... Well, then I guess we can be very satisfied now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u159	Well, I don't think at all that if that gets canceled, you'll solve all that in five years, but that aside. I think this is a sign of the lack of ambition and initiative in this situation, in which both companies are in very severe weather. Normally, restructuring takes place in the market and things are really well arranged for the long term. That should have happened here with the state guarantees, but that did not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u160	Mr. Otten, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u161	Is there anything you can do about that? That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u162	No. I repeat what Mr Hoekstra has just said: the package is one and indivisible. We can't go back out there and unpack any subparticles that we can turn on. Again, from nine months to five years is a really big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u163	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u164	Among other things, Mr Crone has asked questions. It is somewhat against the debates that have already taken place with Mr Hoekstra on the strategic importance of the hub function. How do we keep it and how do you look at it? You said this is a bridge, but what about the other side of the bridge? We have, of course, carried out all possible analyses. Mr Hoekstra also mentioned the scenarios. But to some extent it is also unmistakable, because we all don't know how Corona will be in the rest of the world. Aviation is, of course, an excellent global business, so we really need to wait and see how that develops. Think of the segment of business travel. How often will people do that via all kinds of videoconferencing apps? And to what extent do we still need to really look each other in the eye? These are all developments that we try to assess as best we can, but which we do not quite know. Can we keep KLM up with this package? For as good and as bad as we can estimate, we think so, but that is with a lot of success because the way in which aviation will develop worldwide is really surrounded by very uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u165	Thank you for your answer, but my question went a little further. I just dropped that off with the Minister of Finance. The plan is based on recovery in 2023 to the level of 2019. As much as we might like to do so, the question is whether this is conceivable in view of the economic crisis and corona, and thus also of a weaker position of other airports and increased competition. I've asked if you've made any scenarios for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u166	This has indeed been taken into account in scenarios with different recovery options. This seems possible. But again, that's with a lot of blows to the arm. If there are all kinds of new waves of the COVID-19 virus around the world, or if the virus stays with us any longer, that can of course change the situation again. But with all the insights and with all our advisors, we come to the conclusion that this could be real. Specific attention has been paid to the hub function of Schiphol. Several people have already mentioned it: KLM is by far the biggest player at Schiphol. If the KLM network were to disappear, this would actually mean the end of the hub function of Schiphol. We have seen this in other European countries, for example Sabena and Swissair. The hub function was gone after that. You can have a beautiful regional airport, but then you really no longer have the function of international connectivity. From my own past I use a very clear example. As a Member of the European Parliament, you regularly reside in Strasbourg. Many colleagues were very jealous that we could fly directly to Schiphol and that we did not have to travel to all kinds of Scandinavian countries and so on, like all those colleagues, or via Schiphol or Frankfurt. In this way, I think everyone can think of examples in their own environment where it is extremely useful, and therefore cost-effective, that we have Schiphol with so many direct destinations all over the world. The end of the hub function would seriously damage the accessibility of the Netherlands, and thus also our locational climate. But you have already discussed this with Mr Hoekstra. I think that is very clear to everyone. Mr Crone also asked how we could look at additional policy and management options at European level to give priority to final distribution, which favour the hub function. We are trying to do this as well and as angry as we can, including with our Dutch selectivity policy. In Europe, the European Final Regulation will also be reviewed in the coming period. In doing so, the Dutch commitment will be to increase the possibilities for Member States to steer towards sustainability, so that we may prefer cleaner, quieter aircraft, and especially network quality, so that we can focus on the intercontinental destinations, which are so important to the Netherlands. When we review the European final rules, we are going to make a real effort to do so. I can tell you that the Netherlands is not alone in this. There is also a shortage of slots at many European airports. There I find many colleagues on my side, who also prefer quality and sustainability rather than random slot delivery to everyone for every destination. The question of global competitiveness has also been raised. As Mr Hoekstra pointed out, we have been looking very hard for the right balance. The point is that this company is future proof and that it can continue to compete internationally. So, on the one hand, you shouldn't make so many demands that that's not going to happen anymore, that your profitability is going to suffer. On the other hand, you don't want to put the sustainability ambitions we share with each other at the first setback in the refrigerator. Mr Vendrik said earlier: are you not concerned about beached assets in aviation? Aren't you gonna be okay with that? Two things about that. I think it is of the utmost importance that we realise that aviation itself is no longer leaving. It is a modality that can no longer be thought away and which is also desperately needed. And the fact that KLM has been quoting the sustainability index of the Dow Jones for many years now, I believe that the SGP is a sign that you can lead the way and be profitable at the same time. That is why we did not say: we are going to put another shovel on top. We choose this level, of which we agreed at the sustainable aviation table with the entire Dutch sector that it would be realistic. That's what we've been looking at, and that's what we're trying to hold on to. Here too, we are working together with European colleagues, whether it is the 14% incorporation of biokerosin which we would like to see European mandatory or all other requirements; we are trying to achieve as much together as possible. The Netherlands is really leading the way with a leading group of countries. Those are also countries that matter in the world of aviation. It is not just about my French colleague Djebbari, who is of course extremely relevant to us from the Air France side; for example, Mr Scheuer from the eastern neighbours, who is once again very important to Lufthansa, and the Spaniards are also involved. In short, the countries that are important to aviation all want to make a battle with regard to aviation sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u167	I don't think we're dealing with just any crisis, as if it weren't for that corona. This is such a violent crisis that we have to put on the table a huge package to keep things going. My question was and still is: should you now make these demands in such a way that KLM's competitive position vis-à-vis other airlines in Europe might be put at a disadvantage? That's one. Two: do we also dare to prioritize when we find that sustainability is perhaps going to stand in the way of KLM's economic position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u168	The answer to the first question is: of course we are really focused on the European level playing field. That's what we're looking at. That is why I would also like to mention the colleagues I have just mentioned, with whom we are working together in the context of this sustainability. And, of course, we do not know in what kind of heavy weather this crisis may lead us to end up together in the near future. So we're going all the way in the wrong direction? You say it's not just a crisis. If you take a look at Schiphol, you can see that there is now a bit of careful flying, but of course we are still far from where we should be. During this period I made work visits, at Maastricht Aachen Airport, but also at Schiphol Airport. It's just really bad to see what a nasty atmosphere there is. It's one big parking lot. That's where you all meet people who... Mr Hoekstra has already spoken to you about the staff. I can imagine that a lot of people at home are actually looking at this debate with a knot in their stomach and wondering: what does this mean to me? What's my job and my surroundings gonna look like later? It is not just about the 30,000 people of KLM, but also about the 114,000 jobs around them that depend on them. As a cabinet, we are well aware that this means very serious uncertainties for people, and not just for the company. Because these people form the company together, and that's why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u169	I very much agree, but if you're talking about "feasible and affordable"... We are not asking the government for nothing: what are you doing when you find that this huge capital injection too will not be enough, because you are losing a large part of it to sustainability?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u170	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u171	Shouldn't you just say openly here: at that point, we are going for the economic interest and the importance of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u172	I believe Mr Van Rooijen was talking about a sustainable future for the company. That also means, as far as I am concerned, sustainable in the economic sense. We can be very green, but if there is no more bread to be made for KLM, we end with my favourite statement by a VVD Commissioner from the past, whom I repeat here: the Netherlands poorer and the world warmer. That doesn't help us much. Mr Hoekstra and I are well aware of this. We are constantly looking for a good balance. You have to keep walking in front of us, but we are not going to run all the way to the music, which means we won't be making any more sandwiches and the other European airlines will, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u173	I thank the Minister for her honest answer. She says very loudly and clearly: for good reasons, the cabinet did not want to impose green conditions on this support. That's interesting, because on the other side of the road this is also discussed here, but especially there, in the House of Representatives. There is an approved motion from D66, which states that green conditions must be imposed on aid. Can the Minister explain to us why the cabinet rejected this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u174	Now Mr Vendrik is making a caricature of reality. We have agreed on a very solid package. Alone, was that new? No, it wasn't all new. We already had plans for a CO ceiling in the Aviation Note. I can tell you that this hasn't been shown anywhere yet. We already had plans for that 14% incorporation of biokerosin. We already have a plan in preparation to see if the train can be a better alternative to short-haul flights. We already have plans with Schiphol for interference control. But let me remind you of what the other colleagues have said. It could be that you say in these current circumstances of heavy weather: well, we're just putting those sustainability ambitions on a soft pebble. So we don't do that. We're really holding it. I think we are doing the right thing, because by taking the lead, for example by continuing to invest in fleet renewal, you are making your business profitable in the long term. Such a fleet renewal, such a more economical device, results in less CO emissions. And since fuel is an important cost factor, it is also an important point of profit for the company if you can realize that fuel. So we really see win-win opportunities in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u175	I see Mr Vendrik smiling. That usually means a second question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u176	It's a wonderful answer, but that wasn't my question. My question was as follows. There's a motion from the House of Representatives. It's accepted. It is very clear that support for KLM must now be subject to green conditions. Think of additional efforts in the field of climate and noise. This is not the same as: "We signed the Sustainable Aviation Agreement last year, for example. There's KLM's signature underneath. The green condition for the package now is that KLM's signature last year remains." That's not the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u177	But then I can mention a few other examples that are indeed new. There was nowhere, but nowhere, to be found a signature of KLM under a reduction of night flights, as we are doing now. It goes down by as much as 20%. In the short term, this already happens with 3,000 flights. We hope to record that in the next LVB. That's all completely new. I was asked the question: is it all new? No, it's not all new. For a lot of things, we've talked about it before. But the Aviation Note, which we discussed in the House of Representatives, has not yet been established. It's another draft Airman's Note. It is now before the point of view. I hope that we will be able to establish it with the House of Representatives in the autumn. But it's not even a standing policy yet. I understand that it is already taking place when we think of something that you say is a step in the right direction. But we really weren't there yet. There was no hard connection of KLM under that either. Of course, we've secured it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u178	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u179	Then I repeat my question, which was also my question in the first term, because this is not very clear from the documents. What are the green conditions that the cabinet has attached to this package? Which ones are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u180	I think they're very clear in there. This is a 50% CO reduction per 2030 compared to 2005. That's the biokerosin incorporation obligation of 14%. That is the reduction of night flights from 32,000 to 25,000, coupled with train connections and train combitickets. It's that whole range. In my view, all of this is clearly described, at least in the letter of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u181	Minister, how much more time do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u182	I think we're on our way a long way. In terms of sustainability, I have a few specific things about the night flights. So I think we could get through it fast. Also something very nice in the direction of Mr Vendrik: that agreement on CO reduction we make in the Netherlands in the aviation sector. It must therefore not, as elsewhere, be compensated for by other sectors. It's happening in aviation. Well, that makes a difference. I have already said something about the design of the Aeronautics Note. I think we've been through a lot in the interruptions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u183	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u184	Let's see. What steps have been taken in the field of kerosene excise duty? That is what Mr Crone has asked for. That is also always a complicated story: what sector, what mode, is paying what tax and what exactly is against it? There's a report from CE Delft, the price of a flight. This shows that the total social costs of a journey by plane are more priced than, for example, a journey by train. So it's just what you're counting on. The Secretary of State for Finance is busy, also to get its hands on Europe for a European flight tax. Of course, we also have in the coalition agreement that we prefer it to a national flight tax. Of this, Mr Hoekstra has just said that his colleague Mr Vijlbrief has indicated that in the autumn, of course, he will be discussed again with him about whether the timing is optimal for its introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u185	Can I ask Members for time to really limit the number of interruptions as much as possible? We're already an hour behind. Prefer asking the follow-up questions in your term. I'll give you a second term. Mr Otten, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u186	A short, concrete question about the night flights. I just heard the minister say she's pretty much done. Are you gonna come up with that? Because that is of course very important for maintaining KLM's network.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u187	The Minister has already announced that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u188	That's exactly the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u189	Just one question. It is difficult for me to send the Minister home with no interruption after I have asked so many questions to her colleague Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u190	It's okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u191	No, she'd find that very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u192	I think so, too. I would like to make it quite clear, also in connection with the answer given by Mr Vendrik's Minister and the questions I have asked. Do I properly summarise the answer on sustainability conditions as follows? The Minister says that it is true that they are not new green demands but that it is a re-confirmation of previous agreements, which now includes the signature of KLM. What is new is the reduction of night flights. I would once again like to ask whether it is true that most of this has been made dependent on the opening up of Airport Lelystad and that this agreement is at odds if this opening up does not take place. I'd like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u193	On the first point, what is exactly new, is that we had the ambition for a lot of things, but that it had not yet been endorsed by KLM. It has now been endorsed for the whole package. So many things, ideas and wishes were already known. With regard to the night flights, we were the least far away, because we had formulated an ambition with the Chamber to achieve a reduction. It didn't go beyond that. We've worked that out now. The first 3,000 of these can already be included in the next Airport Traffic Decision. The rest will follow. I will also take with me the answer to Mr Otten's question: we will then proceed with a step-by-step reduction. You are right about that: under conditions. Before the step from 29,000 to 27,000 can be taken, we must be able to move flights to the popular times in the morning and evening. You must imagine that Schiphol is about full. You have peak hour capacity at popular times in the morning and the evening before departure or arrival. It is very crowded with the result that it is searched as close to it as possible. Then you end up in the night: very early in the morning or very late in the evening. So in order to be able to move night flights, you have to create that space elsewhere. Why is Lelystad Airport so important to that? Because that way you can create that free space. If you can remove flights from that peak hour capacity, you can move those from the night there. That way you can reduce night flights. The same applies to the second condition attached to it. It has to do with international train connections. We have looked specifically at Brussels and Düsseldorf, because these are destinations that fall within two and a half hours of travel time and for which it could be a good alternative. What's it gonna take? Many of you will recognize that you can get to Brussels by train during the day, but that if you want to leave Brussels early in the morning in order to take such an intercontinental flight, you will not arrive at Schiphol Airport until 8.15 or later. And that's too late in many cases. That's exactly what we need: short distances to get to Schiphol to make that intercontinental flight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u194	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u195	Same goes for the evening. If you have to go back late at night, you won't be able to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u196	Can you finish your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u197	This is actually the main point, Mr President. Once I've explained this, I think everyone understands why it's not easy to leave out any more night flights. So these are the two conditions. I'll see if I left anything. Mr Otten and Mr Van Rooijen indicated that you cannot reduce night flights without impunity. I think I have indicated with this example that that is not possible. What if Lelystad didn't open up? It is, of course, cabinet policy that Lelystad opens as soon as possible. There has been a request for a trial before that. With the House of Representatives it is agreed that they want to discuss the whole package in one go and that they can then complete the veil. It still requires us to solve the nitrogen problem. We are working hard on that right now. If that is done and if it is clear how that is resolved, it will also be shared with the Chamber and that debate can take place. I think I have answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u198	Thank you, Minister. I'll take a look at Minister Hoekstra. You can also answer from behind your own table with that microphone, otherwise you need to be cleaned again. You just spoke of a confidential letter that you would have shared with this Chamber. I think I got that right, don't I? Can you indicate which letter that is? Because we can't find him. I also understood from a number of Members that they were not keen on what letter that was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u199	Mr. President, excuse me. I got two things mixed up. The confidential letter as I sent it to the Lower House, after the confidential briefing and after the first press conference, we sent it to the Second and First Chambers in public. I was confused. I'm sorry for the misunderstanding. The second thing I would like to emphasise myself is this, but it is really up to the Chamber to think about whether they need it. Look, if members of this Chamber would say that they also want to be informed confidentially in the course of this journey, that would require the appointment of a confidential protocol. That then also calls for agreements to be made with regard to a confidential briefing. This then offers the opportunity to send confidential letters. That is not a small piece of work, I say looking at the experience with the House of Representatives, but I am happy to be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u200	Thank you. For the record, we're talking about the letter of April 24th?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u201	Yeah, I'm serious. I look upstairs and there's a thumb raised, so that's the letter of April 24th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u202	Thank you. Then that misunderstanding is solved, I guess. We now have the second term on the part of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had proposed to the Minister that he beg the state agent for an extra task, to also be careful whether those conditions are not too heavy. The minister understood that, but said that the state agent can't do that. Then I insist that we agree that it must be done, because it is very risky, because we have made all that money available. Could the Minister promise that he will pay attention himself or that these conditions will not be too heavy in between? That really needs to happen, I think. Then there's another point. The minister told us that all banks participating in the new facility were already involved with KLM. But his letter to us says that most of these banks were previously lenders. That makes me think that new banks have joined. I can understand that, because I would also like to be a bank and lend money to KLM at high interest rates; if things go well, I will raise the high interest rate and, if things go badly, I will come to the Minister. I think we should straighten that out. Then I have heard from Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen the term 'fleet renewal'. That would help KLM in the future. Then I wonder what kind of money the KLM will use to renew the fleet. Are there resources available for this? Finally, a correction, which is important for the report. Minister Hoekstra hinted that the previous transaction in which he bought Air France-KLM shares was intended to extend the guarantee we have now received for the use of Schiphol. We've been given five years for that. I think that should be a mistake, because Air France-KLM will want to treat all its shareholders equally. He will not want to make a separate deal with one shareholder, even if that is the State of the Netherlands. I think Air France-KLM, if it did, would break different laws, so I think that more than 700 million spent on Air France-KLM shares cannot be intended to obtain benefits for Schiphol. I would have liked to pass on these four points to the ministers. I'd like a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u204	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u205	Mr. Chairman. The plane's back in flight mode, so I won't be called during this debate. I do have some disappointment I'd like to express. Our group has done its best to give some starting points in the written round to twice as a First Chamber. We understand that the ministers do not have to come to us in confidence first and tell us what they are doing. At that time, as a Chamber, we also said: let us give something in advance. This was about the environmental points, but also about a sound economic program, a realistic assessment of scenarios and a good bail-in/bail-out, and so on. But I have the feeling that the Minister of Finance will soon say to the questions I am asking: "Yes, but this is what the company wants" or "I need more time." Let me not forget to repeat the compliments I had in the first term, because they are there. In any case, I have praised the hard work and the quick action. I think that is the greatest compliment in itself, as I said yesterday. But also the fact that there is a state guarantee is a great one, of course. I have also praised the government's courage to opt for that strongest-shoulder approach. I come from that world, I negotiated there, but I think that as a political party in category unions you can say: boys, we do not want the pilots to gag the rest as the strongest union, because that is at the expense of the low and middle incomes. I said all that. And finally, the fact that there is a lot of money for it is, of course, also worth a compliment, and we should not forget that. The discussion is about whether we spend it well, but that it is there is also worth a compliment. I thought I'd come up with two more in second term, but I can't. I don't need answers like: the company wanted a subordinated loan, that was the choice of the company, yes, I get that, because a subordinated loan is the cheapest for the company. The choice for the taxpayer could have been to make a preferential loan, as you get the money back first with the side effect that a bailout becomes easier. They are allowed to move along because they prefer to relieve us. The minister says, "The company didn't want that." But he's not just here for the company, he's here for the taxpayer, right? Maybe the safe intermediate solution is to deposit money on extra shares. They'll have the liquidity, but there won't be any costs. Isn't that why the Court of Auditors says: "Do it first"? It puts pressure on the bail-out, it's cheaper for the taxpayer and it's in the best interest of the shareholders, because then they have the upside that makes them work hard to make cost savings. I'm not making that up, am I? Then the Minister should not say: yes, but the Court of Auditors sees it differently. I want a substantive argument. I am therefore disappointed at this point. I don't necessarily want stock tomorrow, and I also understand that it's all difficult. Perhaps the Minister can help me by saying: a preferential loan cannot be made anymore, but there may be a conversion moment. The other point concerns the bail-in. The minister almost disassembles Nijboer's motion, because he says, "I've already signed, so I can't do it anymore." If you've already signed, then that motion doesn't make any sense either. So I'm not gonna stretch it out and I'm not gonna speak any louder language than the House of Representatives, because I don't seem to be able to do that, but I'm disappointed if you disassemble a motion from the House of Representatives by saying: I can't do much with that bail-in anymore. So you missed your chance. You can still try. There will be another restructuring programme. There will also be instalments in paying out. If you're saying those tranches are fixed, why are there tranches? If everything had been established, we would not have had to have this debate. What leverage do you still have with regard to the bail-in and converting? Another important question on a point that I did exchange with the Minister for Transport and Water Management, but not with the Minister for Finance. I was very surprised by the optimistic scenario that we are already at the level of 2019. Of course, that also has an economic side. If we don't make it, what everyone expects, the chances of a downside is bigger than on an upside. So we're gonna extend the loans? So the interest rate goes down and there's a new loan coming? I commend the Minister for Transport and Water State and, moreover, the Minister for Finance, for the European ability to provide more control over the network function and sustainability. Because, of course, we must do so as Europeanly as possible. Of course, it irritates me that we sometimes have to give priority to cheap flights over economically profitable flights via slots. That is an eternal discussion, but I hope you can live up to the expectations you expressed. I know that you are fighting hard for it, but I hope you will succeed with Germany and other countries now in the Presidency. For me, therefore, there is still a mortgage on the answer in the second term. It's a big package, it should be there, but the conditions could have been a little sharper. And that is the criterion of assessment that my group will be discussing after the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u206	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u207	Well, six seconds left!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u208	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. In the first period, I made it clear that, as far as my group is concerned, the rescue of KLM is justified or may be justified if three conditions are met. 1. Maintaining jobs and putting the interests of ordinary workers at the centre. 2. Control and control in exchange for support. 3. Real new steps towards a sustainable Dutch aviation sector. With regard to all three, I have asked questions. In some cases I have received a clear answer and in others I have not. Hence the following. On the first point: I asked about the role of the trade unions. The minister said I spoke to the company. I will not repeat what I said earlier, but we have a different view of the company and think that you should talk to the employees. I also asked the Minister about redundancies. I didn't hear about that. Could he make this clear for a moment? Can he promise that there will be no forced dismissals? That is a crucial point for us. Then control and control. A question from my group and from other political groups too: why has this form of liquidity support, loan and guarantees been chosen instead of acquiring new shares, existing shares or capital injections? Why not opt for a bail-in in any form, as recommended by the General Court? Mr Crone has just referred to this. The Minister's answer, also in response to my interruptions and those of others, is: it was not the issue. My question remains: why wasn't it addressed to the Minister? Yeah, because the company needed a loan, a subordinated loan. Colleague Crone just reminded me of that. Yeah, I guess that's what the company needed. But, as I say to my colleague from the PvdA, it is not only about the importance of the company as such and what the management of the company needs, but also about the importance of the taxpayer and how it is best served. And I haven't heard from the minister about that. This is a revenge on the fact that I must also say that the Minister is always relying on information that we do not have, which cannot be shared with us. If we ask about the liquidity shortage of the KLM, he cannot answer that, because that is confidential information. Perhaps the need for liquidity was such that we could have waited a while, giving the Minister more time to look for an alternative solution that would have given more control and control to the taxpayer, which had realised that upside and a claim for future profits. The Minister wrote earlier in reply to the written questions: a capital injection or acquisition is complicated and takes more time. But maybe the minister had that time; maybe KLM's liquidity wasn't that acute. Maybe he could have waited a few months or he could have had a smaller loan. These are all questions that we cannot get an answer to because the Minister has information that he cannot or does not want to share with us. I'll come back to that in a minute. Then I'm going to see Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen. I thank the Minister for her clear answer. I don't want to take anything away from that. I see confirmed what I said in my first term: these are recycled terms and conditions, as I have mentioned them, conditional terms and conditions; I refer to the conditions for the opening of Lelystad Airport. We are convinced that this package will not make KLM and Dutch aviation future-proof, particularly in view of the great challenge of the climate crisis. In this respect, we think that this support package is a missed opportunity. Finally, I would like to focus specifically on the provision of information to Parliament. I have just referred to how it complicates our work. That is a real problem for us. The minister says it's all confidential; you have to understand that, don't you? But I say to the Minister: you must understand that we are talking about EUR 3.4 billion in taxpayers' money, so that we, as co-legislators, can make a proper balance. This is particularly true when it comes to ad hoc policy in crisis time, something that has not been included in the government agreement and which I assume the Minister is seeking broad support for. The Minister says that this is business confidential information, but on my question whether all the documents containing the arrangements made with KLM's management and everything else on paper fall under the heading "business confidential information', the Minister did not give a clear answer. Fortunately, the misunderstanding through the Registry and the President have just clarified that we have not received any confidential letters at all. So we have to do it with the letter from both ministers. That letter has six and a half sides. That's half a billion a side. On this basis, we must decide on this aid of 3.4 billion. For that reason alone, I would be tempted to advise my group not to vote in favour of this bill. But on the basis of what we do know, I would also say that the substance is inadequate; this is a bad deal for the taxpayer. That is why we will not be able to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u209	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Otten. He will speak on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u210	Mr. Chairman. I think that, although from another approach, I can endorse the conclusion of the previous speaker that this is a suboptimal deal for the Dutch taxpayer, because that deal is not well thought out and is not well structured. I got a bit of a déjà vu from a deal I was involved in a while ago. That was when KPN made some serious mistakes with the UMTS auction in Germany in 2000, and as a result got into serious financial difficulties. At the time, the government had a significant interest in this. That was Mr Zalm, a predecessor of Mr Hoekstra. At that time there was a merger with Belgacom, the Belgian State. I was also involved in this and there were similar issues at state level and at financial level. Eventually there was no good solution in terms of liquidity position and the Belgians wisely abandoned it, after which there was a claim issue with KPN and the government, I thought, then also jumped in. So then a solution in equity was chosen. That would have been obvious here, too. Actually, that would have been the only logical way. We now have a situation in which the taxpayer has the burden of a subordinated loan, with all the risks involved, which is not actually repaid until there is money left after the banks and all the other creditors. Therefore, it is in fact the risk of share capital without any upside or control. That is, in fact, the worst of two worlds. This is our view as a result of the fact that the Dutch State has pretty quickly lost its initiative in this case. The debate has also strengthened us in this regard. I said it in my first term: the Minister was chasing the facts and chasing the French. That's actually typical of what happened here. With a more initiative-based approach with the taxpayer in mind, I think a better deal could have been obtained. I am also looking, for example, at the state guarantees we were talking about with the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure. She says it was nine months' notice; well, we have five years now; well, that's actually pretty good. This is exactly the situation where you really have the ultimate opportunity to renegotiate these things very well, for the long term. Then one is satisfied quickly, one bumps after the French and is done. That is a pity, because this is only a short-term solution. I've been asking about the scenarios. There are more people who have asked for it. I saw two scenarios in the confidential letter that wasn't confidential to us. There were some scenarios in there. I also asked if there are more scenarios, what those scenarios contain and when the volume of traffic has recovered. I have not really received a clear answer from the Minister, so I would ask the Minister once again. When does the Minister think that plan B should be activated? If the crisis doesn't recover quickly, we'll walk... I heard something about it being guaranteed until next year. How long can KLM keep doing this, and not forgetting Air France? Is there any possibility in the future to make this deal with, for example, shares or... Mr Crone mentioned a preferential loan. That seems very complicated to me in banking, because then you are going to change the rankings, but I am thinking, for example, of a convertible or you name it. There are all kinds of other options, but when does the Minister think this is going to happen? Mr. Chairman. I still have a few points. About the state agent, the supervisor, I asked a very serious question: who's going to do that? It may be characteristic of the Minister's way of thinking that he sees an open application in it, but that is certainly not the case. On the contrary, I would like to know what kind of calibre person is going to do that and when it will be appointed. That seems to me to be quite urgent, because it is a lot of money. We talked about the marriage that didn't work. Mr Van Rooijen also referred to this. It is a marriage of two partners, in which one spends more money structurally than the other. Now we're gonna separate the money flows a little bit. The cop's gonna check it out, but that's not a structural solution, is it? My question to the ministers is once again: how are we going to solve this structuralally? 'Cause that's not how marriage gets better, I guess. Rounding up. We are of course in favour of KLM's rescue operation, but we believe that the deal as it stands does not deserve the beauty prize. We think it is sub-optimal, so we hope that the Minister will be able to do something about it in the near future. We are also, once again, very curious to know who will be the state agent. Finally, a point about night flights. Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen also referred to this. Of course, the whole purpose of this exercise is to preserve KLM's international hub function and network at Schiphol Airport for the Dutch economy. We fully support this, which is essential. But too radical a reduction in night flights? That rules out each other. I don't think we should. I also get reports from several people who say: if that second step of the night flights is implemented, it will just be very difficult for KLM to keep a profitable international network in the air. Then we, as taxpayers, won't get our money back either. This is of no benefit to anyone, so I would like to stress once again that this is a very important aspect. Mr. Chairman. We await the Ministers' further response and then we will form our opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u211	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u212	Mr. Chairman. If necessary, I will also learn here how to brush better in the recess. If that is acceptable to the Minister of Finance, I would ask Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen about the state guarantee, because it is essentially her responsibility. The documents state that the State guarantee remains the same. It is from 2003 and was renewed in 2010. Because it says it was extended in 2010, my question is how long it is. Is that for an indefinite period of time? Can there be another moment when there is a need to talk about extension? That's not entirely clear to me. It is, of course, very crucial, given what the Minister said about the importance of the five years. Five years is the notice period. She called that a kind of pre-announcement of imminent disaster. Nicely formulated. Time to stop it. Excellently formulated. Next: is the State guarantee primarily an agreement between KLM and Air France or is it also or above all an agreement between the two states? I assume the first, but that is not entirely clear from the pieces either. I can see the Minister of Finance nodding. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few questions for the Minister of Finance. I'm not going to ask again in detail about the culture change in scenario 1. We will certainly come back to that, but I have heard the Minister clearly about it. Maintaining employment, as I said, is also very important for my group. I would like to point out that the Minister had an ominous sense. When we talked about Air France, he said "not yet a wage offering." We know that last Friday, in addition to the departure scheme, Air France also announced a firing round of around 3,000 people and jobs. Can that wage sacrifice come now, and is it desirable? Then you get the question, as in the Netherlands with KLM: is it mainly the wage sacrifice or are it the redundancies and are they perhaps communicating vessels? Especially if you include the departure scheme, I feel that might be the case. I had asked Minister Hoekstra if the reduction in wages that is to come could possibly be temporary. It has a major impact, for example on pension building. People who make that wage offering must realise that their pension building is going to get a huge blow and that if they get fired after that, they will also get a lower WW. It can't be any worse. In my neighborhood, I hear these questions, too. People say: Van Rooijen probably knows a little bit about it, so he has to explain that. The Minister said he was laughing about a capital injection rather than loans. I heard him right: a capital injection takes a long time, you also need the other shareholders and it was mainly about liquidity in the short term. I think that is at the heart of the package before us. Finally, on confidentiality. We, as the First Chamber, can also hold that private consultation. The Minister of Finance said the same thing. We didn't. Perhaps we should learn from this that we will do so next time. It is known to me that the Registrar has confirmed that the House of Representatives is making reports of confidential consultations. There are. We could perhaps ask the House of Representatives to obtain those confidential reports. It's more efficient. Then we don't have to do it again, because I don't give it to the cabinet in these harsh times either. So that is something we can take to heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u213	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. No, we wouldn't want that last one. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u214	Thank you, Mr President. I am going to distribute the second term fairly among the two ministers. I'll start with Minister Hoekstra. He has spoken to me about the human resources issue, working conditions, even more so, the wage sacrifice. We hope, of course, that the strongest shoulders will bear the heaviest burdens. In our little chat, I was talking about the Minister giving the Chamber judgment, and that requires something from the Minister. The Minister gave a cautious answer, but I said that it was crystal clear, as far as I am concerned, i.e. it spoke volumes. At least a clear direction has been agreed. My question to the Minister is whether he would like to undertake that he can at least monitor that direction and its developments and inform the Chamber about it. That is the question I have for the Minister of Finance. The other question is about sustainability. I even heard the Minister talk about the renewal of the fleet with sustainability. That reminded me for a moment of that plane that was developed in an unnameable country and became extra expensive, three times as expensive. Two thirds was intended for the extension cord! However, all madness on a stick, sustainability is in fact becoming a semantic discussion when we talk about climate sustainability and sustainability in the context of the KLM's sustainability. Now, in response to Mr Vendrik's question, the Minister has once again indicated what aspects of sustainability she had in mind with regard to the climate. These were the CO reduction, the biokerosin, the reduction on the night flights and the train connections with the combi with flights and so on. My question was how the government will deal with this in case the economic sustainability, the sustainability of KLM comes under pressure, or comes under further pressure. I have heard very well that the Minister said: if it is completely green at some point, but it is no longer alive, then it is not helping. Which of those four parts is she gonna steer on? That is actually the crucial question. That reminds me of a remark from my former colleague from the Lower House, Elbert Dijkgraaf. It's always told us: you can't do green when you're red. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u215	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u216	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. But, yeah, it's not really convincing. I keep thinking that some companies are more equal than others. That is why it was so important that the cabinet wanted to establish a very clear framework for specific support operations such as this one. That's what we got. Questions to the Minister of Finance on the issue of bail-in also arise. For example, I quote the following sentence from the framework created by the cabinet itself. Page 4 (c), Instruments and Conditions: "Before considering the possible form of government bail-out, the so-called bail-in ladder is followed by a review of how parties that normally achieve the highest returns and thus are most at risk are also burdened by the rescue of the company to a greater extent than the other stakeholders." That is a wonderful sentence, but I note from the questioning and from the answers of the Minister of Finance that we have not yet reached this stage and that consideration needs to be given to how stakeholders other than staff are asked to contribute. That's for a later moment, but the government's support has already been given. By doing so, the government has given up a means of power to force other parties to bear part of the damage that is inevitably at stake in KLM. It seems to me to be contrary to the framework agreed by the cabinet itself. That framework is not for nothing, because there is, as it were, a bookcase of experience behind it, starting with the 2008 credit crisis. Then it is particularly painful that the Minister cannot make it sufficiently clear to me why that step is being taken and is being addressed very explicitly to the staff. No misunderstanding about this: KLM staff will also be affected in another phase. And I very much agree with the government's approach of "strongest shoulders, toughest burdens," but why should it be the staff and not the other financiers and financial stakeholders, the parties holding fuel options, bondholders, the leasing companies? I have no idea. This may have to be seen in another phase in the autumn, but then the whole framework has already been set aside in advance. That seems to me to be this crucial part of the proposal, which is a fair share of all those involved in saving such an important company as KLM, which is a wrong step. Mr. Chairman. The second and final point...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u217	You have almost doubled your speaking time, quite frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u218	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm so full of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u219	Would you like to finish later? That would be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u220	...surprise. Excuse me, I'm finishing up. Mr. Chairman. The second and final point has already been discussed with the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State: sustainable conditions. They're not terms. The signature the Minister spoke of, for example under the draft Sustainable Aviation Agreement, was already there. So that's not a condition. Then you shouldn't name it that way. This has not reduced the importance. The idea was to use the support to give an extra push to the sustainable transition. So that didn't happen. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one sentence on its importance. The cabinet had very complicated discussions during the Climate Agreement with, for example, the large industry. They were very difficult. The cabinet would come up with emission reductions for the big industry in the Netherlands, all capital parties that are important for the economy of the Netherlands. Then it is so important that the cabinet in a case like this shows that what applies to those industries, the Tatas of this world, also applies to KLM. Everyone has to comply with the climate forecast. Then I understand very well that entrepreneurs, in particular the sustainable champions who fight every day to bring down their carbon footprint, do not understand that 3.4 billion state aid goes out without green conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u221	Mr. Vendrik...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u222	That's not understood anymore. In any case, my group does not understand either. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u223	Thank you. Finally, Mr Pijman has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the ministers for their reply. I said at first that there is a balanced package. There is also a heavy package with a 90% guarantee and subordinated loans. The Minister is right to point out that instead of going to a notice period of nine months, we have gone to one of five years. That is a very important condition for the position of KLM and Schiphol. It's very important. I asked you about the state agent. You have said the necessary things. The Court's report says: do not expect too much of it now. My question is: if the second or the third tranche of the loan is to be made available soon, what is the role of the state agent? I think it is important to know how the company's claims go and how you weigh them. My question is also: are those reports public? Mr. Chairman. 1 October is a very important point. The KLM will then have to submit its restructuring plan, under the conditions you have set out, including how to proceed with the sustainability requirements. This is very important for the future of the company. We would like to be promised that the Senate will also be informed about this restructuring plan, including your appreciation of it. The State has now intervened twice with KLM. Firstly, by taking over 14% of the share package and now with these measures. We have discussed that the 14% share capital may not be the last intervention. I would like to know from the Minister whether this intervention has met his expectations at this stage. We have asked Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen about the level playing field. You mentioned that you are talking to the European colleagues. We would like, for example, to have an overview in a year's time of how these negotiations are going to be conducted. If we also take the sustainability objectives very seriously, this is a very important consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u225	Mr. Arrowman, would you wrap up, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u226	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm rounding up. If you're looking at the development of corona, you don't have to think we're done with it. The United States and Asia, which are crucial for KLM, are doing extremely badly on this point. The Minister said about the liquidity position: mid-term next year. It may take a third round. We believe that a bail-in and participation of other creditors to bear the risks would be a good variant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u227	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Ministers, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? I take it from the body language that that's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u228	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to stand up and yet give an answer, and for adjusting the chair. That's all because I drank an unreasonable amount of milk when I was little. I will do my answer as much as possible in the order in which the questions were asked. Mr Frentrop rightly asked the question: can the state agent not also pay attention to the competitive position of the company at all? That's how I understood him. I am going to say to Mr Pijlman that I do not expect too much from the state agent, but I think this can be done in the context of the package. But I wouldn't want to leave that alone with that state agent, because I think that as a shareholder and as a government at all, we also have a responsibility to do so. But I would like to assure him that I am not adding this point to the terms but that I am giving him the order. Mr Frentrop asked: does the State guarantees favour one party to the company and, if so, is that not unfair to the other shareholders? No. You are dealing here with a company in which two states are major shareholders. By definition, one State is assured of this situation because the company is in France. In that other country, the Netherlands, there has just been a long-standing wish to get this settled. The company agreed to this. This means that the Supervisory Board, in which two of the other major shareholders are represented, has agreed to this. That can also be welcomed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u229	The Minister did not fully understand my point. My comment was that we might think that the Dutch State had taken shares in Air France-KLM with the aim of getting better guarantees for Schiphol. I want to remove that misunderstanding, because if that were the case in the Acts, American mass-claim lawyers could say: hey Air France-KLM, you don't treat your shareholders equally. I want to get rid of that misunderstanding. I hope you will confirm this and that the purpose of this more than 700 million in investments could never have been to acquire a special position for a shareholder in Air France-KLM, which is the Dutch State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u230	If Mr Frentrop helps me to avoid a massive claim for damages, I will of course say yes immediately. Then I thank him very much for that help. At the same time, the Dutch state has always been clear about what the inspiration behind buying shares has been. If I put it more generally, that is securing the vital function that Schiphol and thus KLM fulfil for our country. In order to secure this better, we said: one of the things we want to talk to the company and the French state about is the so-called state guarantees. What we did not want to do is, therefore, I very much agree with Mr Frentrop's remark, which is to gain a preferential position as a shareholder who would be unfair to the other. I totally agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u231	I think this can be done properly in the Acts, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u232	Thank you to Mr Frentrop for his help. Mr. Chairman. I shall now come to Mr Crone's comments. Of course, I would like to do everything I can to see if I can further polish the list of compliments, but I would also like to address his serious comments. I'll start with his point about the bail-in. No misunderstandings about that. If that sounded too thin, it wasn't meant to be. I gave Mr Nijboer's motion a proper judgment Chamber. In the appreciation, I said that it was also agreed with the company................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr Crone and I fully agree with that. But when we asked for this quite explicitly, the company said: we understand this question and think it is self-economically sensible, but give us more time. For example, the company has rightly said: give us time to make agreements with the trade unions and with other representatives of the company. In that light, I tried to answer it, also in the Lower House. Although success in this sort of thing is by definition never fully assured, I really believe that Mr Crone and I are pulling the rope on the same side. Mr. Chairman. Mr Crone also made a comment on confidentiality. A few speakers have referred to this. For the record: in the end it is up to the First Chamber itself, but if it wanted to be kept confidential, the cabinet would naturally be willing to do so. My proposal would, moreover, be to await the advice of the Council of State, which is currently explicitly considering the question of explanations and advice which the cabinet has submitted to the Council. Why does that play? On the one hand, I would, of course, like to take very seriously the explanation given by the Court of Auditors to the Compatibility Act in this context. The Compatibility Act does not refer to the Lower House, but to the States-General. On the other hand, in the banking crisis, it has always been the case that only the House of Representatives was updated. In any case, this fits more automatically, let me say carefully how typically the practical division of roles is perceived in this Chamber. But it's not up to me; it's up to the Chamber. I'd be happy to. I would also like to be prepared to make additional arrangements. But my suggestion would be, through you, Mr President, to wait for the opinion of the Council of State and then, if necessary, to draw up a protocol, the Chamber would need it. Mr. Chairman. Maybe one more thing to Mr Crone about the shares. It is perhaps also good to mention that, in addition to what I have just said about why it is now about liquidity and possibly later, probably, perhaps about capital. In the meantime, of course, we are working on this exercise for a few months, in a time of great uncertainty, global but also specific to the company. We have, of course, looked at the need, but you also want to have some more certainty about the long-term clarity. Is there a need for capital? If so, how much capital is needed, and who wants to provide it? It is precisely because there needs to be more clarity about the longer term and because shareholders themselves need it that we have come up with this construction. Maybe that's an addition. I very much agree with him that this is a logical question to ask. That is, of course, also a question that we have discussed with the company. I just want to be transparent about that. We have actually talked to the company about every aspect of this deal, as Mr Otten calls it. Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Crone's question on bail-in and how to deal with it has been mentioned, but that is also quite clearly agreed in the current package. I hope I have answered his questions properly. Then I am with Mr Van Apeldoorn. He had indeed asked one more question that I had not answered, namely the one about the redundancies. But he must have read in the report of the House of Representatives that I did reply to him there. I indicated there that we all want every company to get through the corona crisis without being fired, but you can't promise that. This company is in an existential crisis, and if you have 80% to 90% of your fleet on the ground, you can't avoid looking at all your costs and therefore your personnel costs. As far as information and confidentiality are concerned, the answer I gave to Mr Crone is, of course, also valid in the direction of Mr van Apeldoorn, because he also asked for it. Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to Mr Van Rooijen. He thought I was a... "Omineus" was the word he used, I believe. He felt that I had spoken ominous words about a possible wage sacrifice in France. I think it's up to the company to look at the whole cost base. If you are prepared on the Dutch side to look at the level of salaries and at all other parts of the impactable costs, then I think it is obvious to do so in the other parts of the company on the French side as well. But I'm not going over that alone, and then I'm going over it carefully. So I think that's up to the company. But Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen and I have indicated that we are concerned about the cost base of the whole business. We also believe that the whole cost base should be examined. Then I'll be with Mr Schalk. Thank you for his comments. I had already taken the compliment that I was crystal clear on the motion in the first term. He said that he would like to be informed. I'd be happy to tell the Chamber. I just need to see what the right moments are for that. I think it will either have to be if we report at all on the state participations or if there is a logical time to inform the Chamber about the whole restructuring package. I wouldn't want to pull it out separately. I do not think that was Mr Schalk's question at all. I'd be happy to tell him I'll inform the Chamber about that. Many thanks to Mr Pijlman for his comments and his appreciation of the state guarantees. He was explicit and said don't expect too much from that state agent. I think that's right. In a sense, it is the ears and eyes of the cabinet, of Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen and of myself. Whoever has the opportunity to find something, but is not a commissioner. That's a distinction that we've made aware of. Mr Pijlman asked: can what the state agent indicates be made public? I think that's tricky. I would like to inform you more generally during the reports I have just promised. Again, if the Chamber needs confidential information on exactly what that state agent is doing, we'll have to discuss it confidentially. But it is almost by definition about business sensitive and price sensitive information. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Pijlman asked about the purchase of the 14%: did he meet the expectations? Sure, because the influence and information position of the Dutch cabinet has improved significantly from literally the day after that purchase. Without that interest in shares, we could never have put the state guarantees on this loan package. I think that's the ultimate proof of it. What I am a little less optimistic about than a year ago is not so much the degree of influence we have acquired, as the fact that my French colleague, I and at all the Dutch cabinet had hoped that Air France-KLM would have been in a more florissant position at the moment before corona, but at least now. Unfortunately, that is not the case. That's why there's just work to be done. Mr President, those were my second-term replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u233	I had asked another question about the consequences of wage cuts. I asked if it was temporary. Two. A reduction in wages, especially if it could be 10% or more for any group, has an immediate impact on the retirement of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u234	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u235	Even more cynical: if they make that wage offering and are then fired, they also get a lower WW. Is that something...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u236	I think the question is clear, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u237	The question is clear. Mr Van Rooijen is right: I forgot that question. I can answer that right away. The first answer is: yes, by definition these interventions are temporary, because they are valid for the duration of the loan. We hope it will be repaid within a few years. Sooner rather than later, I hope, because that is good for the company; that says something about the company. Then it's just up to the company itself to make decisions about salaries. Secondly, on pensions. That is typically something that I think it is up to the employer and the employee to transfer agreements into that whole package of secondary conditions. Three. I don't think it's possible to make specific, other WW agreements for this group of employees. I think it is fair that KLM should, of course, come up with a holistic perspective on the question: how many staff do we need and what are the staff's wage costs that remain? It is very unfortunate if you do ask for a wage sacrifice at first and still have to resign. I cannot promise that this will never happen, because we do not know how this crisis is developing. But I very much agree with Mr Van Rooijen that it is wise to think about that in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u238	Thank you. Mr. Van Rooijen, a short, final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u239	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. This is important, isn't it? The Minister says that the agreements are temporary and that the wage increase, whatever that is, is also temporary. This could mean that when the period is over and when the weather improves, some of the wage cuts will be gradually reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u240	At least that is up to the company. However, I have not for nothing cracked a few critical notes about the cost base of the company, already for corona. So I am not convinced in advance that it would then be wise to return all salaries to the level before the crisis. But that is up to the company, because if we have the green light again in a moment when the loan has been repaid, then I think it is primarily up to the company itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u241	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Otten, another brief interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u242	The Minister answered the questions in the order of speakers. He skipped me. That's why I'm asking again, for the umpteenth time, what's going on with these scenarios? Because I still haven't gotten an answer to that. I note that the Minister says that we have gained a great deal of extra control over that 14% investment. By now, 70% of this investment, I believe, is under water. Can you imagine? So you could have built it up for a few hundred million to 30% or maybe even more. You'd have had a lot more say in that. That proves once again that the deal isn't right. Anyway, I've said that extensively. What about those scenarios? That was my question. It still hasn't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u243	I'd like a brief answer on the scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u244	Minister van Nieuwenhuizen and I both spoke in the first term about those scenarios and also about the state agent and who that becomes. Because that too was a repeated question in the second term. I have not answered the questions which were the same in the second period as in the first period, not only with Mr Otten, but also with the others. As far as 14% is concerned, the cabinet has always made it clear that we did not do this stock purchase to achieve financial returns, but that it was specifically intended to strengthen our position and that we did not take the look of an investor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u245	Finally, Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u246	The Minister was almost at the end of the reply. I asked if the restructuring plan of the KLM could come here with your appreciation on 1 October. I imagine you can't literally reveal all the documents through the agent. There is, of course, confidential information in this, but I would ask you to send a report to this Chamber on the situation at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u247	What can I make a good commitment to? I can promise to report with a certain amount of regularity. I'm sure we can do that. I can also repeat the commitment to inform the Chamber in quite a bit of detail; see also the letter from last week or two weeks ago. I can also undertake to inform the Chamber confidentially about more than that. What I cannot undertake is to share that restructuring plan. The simple reason for this is that it really hits the heart of business confidentiality and price sensitive information. If I may agree with Mr Pijlman in this way, I think we will be able to come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u248	Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, after the cathedral has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u249	Thank you. There is a limited, clear number of questions in my direction. But first of all, of course, I warmly welcome the compliments I have received, even if only for the clear answer. That's worth something. We will not all agree on all fronts. For the sake of time, I'll do it a little staccato. Questions have been asked about fleet renewal: on what basis? Of course, money has to be made for that first. This also depends very much on the way in which aviation recovers and at what rate it will take place. But as an example, I would like to mention that the 747 has recently been speeded out, which, of course, also meant a huge step for noise and for CO. At this time, there may also be opportunities to exchange aircraft on the lease market. There's gonna be some left and right. It doesn't always have to go straight to big and compelling purchases. Mr Van Apeldoorn says that KLM is not future-proof. I think: if there is one society that is still future-proof and has sustainability as a priority, it is the KLM as far as I am concerned. We're ahead of Europe. I think we should count our blessings, too. Mr Otten was still a little disappointed. He would have liked to have seen more than five years before the state guarantees. Of course, it can always be more. Once again, I would like to stress once again that we can really be very satisfied with this, as Mr Pijlman pointed out, because five years is quite something to achieve in this kind of strategic agreement with companies. We have been asked whether this should be extended. No, the notice period is five years and it's unlimited. It's between companies. That is not the signature of the French State, but it is the signature of the companies and ours. That is, of course, with the knowledge of the French state. Mr Otten says: no excessive reduction of night flights. That makes me feel like we landed well after all. One says "don't do so much, because it's so complicated" and the other says "it needs more." So I think we finally managed to find the right balance in this. Mr Schalk is on the other side of the spectrum. He says, "Sustainability? Pay particular attention to economic sustainability. The company must also remain viable. How are you going to send your colleague on this with regard to developments?" Mr Hoekstra and I are just going to do it very sober, businesslike and pragmatically, as we have always done so far. If we see that developments are going in the wrong direction, then of course we are not going to push the company over the blade with far too heavy demands. Then we'll rethink. But for the time being, all scenarios adjusted and weighed, this path seems to be the right path. Mr Vendrik is against this again and says that there are no green conditions. Well, in my opinion, that is definitely the case. Again, there are new things in it. The ambitions are laid down in private law. New things like reducing night flights and combitickets with the train are now really recorded. Finally, the question of being informed about the conditions for sustainability. In the House's second debate, I undertook to report on its progress in the autumn. I can imagine that we will let that go in sync and that I will also send the same information that I send to the House of Representatives to your Chamber. That's it, I think, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u250	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-16.u251	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the legislative proposal later this evening at the end of the sitting. Let me make a point of order. I shall now suspend for a few minutes so that a window can be opened and the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State can move away. Then we will have the debate on the third and fifth supplementary budgets for the financial year 2020. That is what about an hour and a half is for, I say to do a bit of expectation management. Then we will have a half-hour break so that the voting lists can be made and the groups can reflect on their voting behaviour. Then we'll do the hammer pieces. That'll take about ten minutes to 15 minutes. After that, we will do the voting. So you have an idea how to organize the evening in terms of time distribution.
