ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Welcome to the Members of Parliament, to the people in the public gallery and to the people who are following this debate on the amendment of the Participation Act in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u2	I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk. Go ahead. Mr Jasper van Dijk speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u3	Mr. Chairman. We spent months at home because of corona and now I have five debates in a row. It's like a marathon. There's something to catch up on. Mr. Chairman. People applying for benefits should not benefit from hidden property. Whether that's a bank account, a car or a holiday home abroad, it all counts as property. That's fair enough. This law should prevent a revolving door effect from arising in the event of asset fraud. As an example, I would like to mention that the income or a holiday home is withheld. Next thing you know, you're gonna get caught. The benefit will then be suspended and a fine will be paid. However, this will allow a new benefit to be applied for immediately, because there is negative capacity. That is, of course, a crazy situation that needs to be addressed. That is all the support for this proposal. However, I would also like to make a number of comments, which are not only included in the present law, but broader, in the Participation Act. Firstly, that is the definition of fraud. The Council of State had strong criticism of that demarcation. Fraud means "deception" and supposed intent in the normal use of speech, while all claims for breach of the obligation of information are referred to as fraud claims. The whole paperwork for people in the Participation Act is complicated enough. It's not weird that there's ever been a mistake. How does the government deal with people who do not purposely commit fraud? There are also people who do not always comply with those 1.5 meters. They don't have to leave right away, do they? A large part of the people who violate the intelligence obligation suffer from low literacy, ggz problems, intellectual impairment or simply stress due to illness or death of relatives. What are the possibilities for municipalities to deviate in such situations and not impose a fine? If I understand correctly, that is also Mr Raemakers' amendment. That makes me very positive. Why has the concept of fraud not been changed in line with the criticism of the Council of State? The Council underlines the desirability of consistency in the use of the concept of "fraud" by the government. Fraudsters need to be dealt with, but people who unintentionally make a mistake in their form do not need to be labeled as fraud. The Council of State wants to make it possible for municipalities to put people who accidentally violate intelligence obligations under a less stringent regime regarding the power test. The Council also wants fraud claims that do not constitute a breach of the information obligation to be taken into account as a liability for the asset test. Why wasn't that followed? Is there still an eye for the human size? Mr. Chairman. The second comment concerns the unhindered foot. Fraudsters are punished with a recovery and a fine. That's right, but they have to be able to take care of themselves and pay the rent. Does the government agree with me? Can this still be done after the implementation of this law? The Simplification Act regulates that people with debt leave enough income for basic needs. However, that law is still being postponed. When will the Simplification Act finally be introduced? Has there been any further delay? Why is the law we are discussing today being rushed and not the law on the batter-free foot, I ask the government? The third point concerns the extension of the power limit. Power standards are quite strict for assistance. That's over €6,000 for a single and over €12,000 for a couple. That's not much. People need a financial buffer. Satisfaction, however, is discouraged. With many people the property is stuck in their home and it is actually impossible to sell that house. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of broadening these limits? What does the Secretary of State do for people who cannot sell their homes, or only under very unfavourable conditions? Does the Secretary of State also want to equate the capital limit for applying for exemption for local taxes with that for assistance? That's so consistent. Finally, Mr President. Fraudsters need to be dealt with, but that does not mean that we should treat all welfare recipients as fraud. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u4	Thank you for your input. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Renkema. Mr Renkema speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u5	Thank you. We're talking about a special subject. I'd like to start with a comparison anyway. It's my feeling that today we're mainly going to talk about language. In 1911, the anthropologist and linguist Franz Boas went in search of the language of the Inuit. "Inuit" is the right word for people who are wrongly called "the Eskimos." Boas said the Inuit have four different words for snow. English would only have one word for that. The intention of Boas was to make the connection between language and culture. Words have a different charge or meaning, depending on the meaning that someone himself gives to them. Language, words, very strongly affect our view of reality. According to some philosophers, it is even our only reality. But language, language and words matter. Today we are going to talk about removing the right to assistance. Around the assistance, the cabinet always shows the same mantra, and that is what we have to do: we have to tackle fraud vigorously in order to maintain social support for our social security. That makes sense and that also sounds very firm: someone who frauds, who must be punished. We are a strict welfare state and that all sounds very reasonable, but for a number of reasons GroenLinks considers this bill unreasonable. It is superfluous and it is very complicated in its implementation. In the previous debate, we were just talking about implementation. But it is mainly written for the stage. The proposal is an example of what I would call 'the right-wing hyperfocus on fraud', because oh woe if the neighbor got something he wasn't entitled to. I have often said it here: we are more concerned here about the few who get too much than about the many who get too little. Back to that language and the word "fraud." Language matters, but what does the word "fraud" mean? I looked at the D.A.'s website, because that seems like an authority in this area. The D.A. defines "fraud" as deliberate deception in order to obtain an unlawful advantage. Delusion! It is therefore a question of intent, of purposefulness and of reasoning. In the opinion, the Council of State also refers to this meaning of the word "fraud" in society. It is a rather narrow but also a clear definition, and it is reserved exclusively for cheating. Fraud is cheating. But in the jargon of our strict welfare state, all the irregularities found when applying for a benefit or during the period when someone has received that benefit, and indeed afterwards, are called fraud. That is a very broad and inclusive definition, in which carelessness, negligence and negligence all fit. Three decades of such strict enforcement makes everyone involved in social security and receiving benefits a potential fraud. I'm just saying "frauder." In a system that's become so complex, we were just talking about it, too, and that mistake was just made. The focus on fraud is completely out of control and people are getting hurt. They are also often groups that are already vulnerable, because they live in poverty, because they are low-literate or because they have intellectual disabilities. They lose their way in a jungle of rules, forget to open their mail and are quickly at 10-0 behind. From that moment on, they are fraudsters. But someone who accidentally forgets to pass something on for some reason is not, as far as I am concerned, a fraud. It's important that we keep naming that, because what does it do with your self-image, your self-confidence and trust in the government if you are constantly seen and addressed as a potential frauder? Then there is the content of the proposal. What this proposal wants is for someone who is found to have and has not reported possession, to pay back the assistance and also the fine that goes with it. Furthermore, no new application for assistance can be made. Neither the debt to be repaid nor the fine can be seen as a debt to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u6	Language matters. That's absolutely true. So I am also curious whether Mr Renkema agrees with me that, for example, municipalities should be obliged to keep to the language requirements so that they cannot hide it and simply do it. Because language really matters. My specific question is as follows. Mr Renkema focuses on people who are wrongly called fraud. With what he says about that, I totally agree. At the moment when you have not deliberately committed fraud, you should at least be able to rebut it. But it is true that a person who applies for assistance, even if he speaks another language for example, is given everything in order not to forget anything. I also said that they should actually check on the language requirement. I don't know how many languages on the government website explain what conditions you have to meet, but when you knock on a church, they even say: we have all kinds of people who are powerful in other people's language, interpreters and so on. Everything is being done to keep people from forgetting something. Then it turns out that there is still a group that says: I forgot that in another country I still had a house of €100,000. Or: I forgot to mention that I had a safe with some valuables. Then how do you look at the people who do so deliberately? Do you agree with me that whatever you think of this law, according to many missed opportunities, this law is a step in the right direction to tackle this kind of problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u7	No, I don't think this law is a step in the right direction. I'll tell you more about that later. But in this case I fully agree with the PVV when the word 'intentionally' is used. Mr. De Jong just did. He said "if deliberate fraud is committed." For example, someone has one house, two houses, three houses... He may have three houses and also a hotel in Turkey, Costa Rica or France. It doesn't matter in which country. If a person applies for a benefit here without a glance or blushing, that is deliberately committing fraud. That needs to be tackled vigorously, and so can the municipality at the moment. But this law also adds that large grey area to it. We have also seen in many other files how complicated that is. There are quite a few people for whom it is not at all so obvious what matters or does not. I think Mr De Jong also knows how complicated we have made these arrangements. I am going to give an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u8	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u9	I had arrived at the content of the proposal. It means that that debt, but also that fine, should no longer be seen as a debt to the government. It has just been said that we call that a revolving door request. The word 'turn door' also reminds me of crime, but it is about social security. The proposal raises the question of what this means for a person's security of existence: the risks of additional debt, a path towards debt relief and possible serious consequences such as home expulsion and homelessness, with all the costs, including social costs, that are included. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he would like to address this concern about the security of life of people from whom we have taken the assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u10	I'll leave it in the middle, whether it happened by accident, that you didn't pass something on or that you did it on purpose. That's not what the bill is about, as I read it. There's been a given. There's power. Do you agree with me that it's weird that you shouldn't pay off that wealth before you can apply again for a benefit? Or do you say, well, keep it good; sorry you actually forgot to pass it on, but that doesn't matter? That makes it, in my opinion, a kind of money laundering of the property that you forgot, whether you did it by mistake or on purpose. That's how it's laundered, because that's what turned it into negative power. So it actually pays to forget it by accident or on purpose. Do you think it is right that we enter a power test, in the sense that we say: you may have so much power; you must eat that first and only if you fail under it, do you have the right to use this safety net benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u11	I note that the VVD uses the words 'accidentally' and 'express' in the same sense, but the distinction must be made quite explicitly. With the assistance we currently have a capital test and a partner test in the Participation Act. We can talk about whether it's high or low enough and what we think about it. This has just been mentioned in the contribution of Jasper van Dijk of the SP. But the moment someone has assets, a welfare allowance does not have to be provided if that capital is high enough. But here it is about that there is property that has not been reported, that we then take the welfare benefit away from someone and that the debt that is then accumulated, plus the fine, should no longer be considered as a debt to the government. I find that unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u12	Finalizing, Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u13	Let's just assume that it wasn't said by mistake. It's possible. I mean that we can also talk about that degree of culpability. That's not in this bill, but we might as well talk about it once. I'd like that, too. I am very willing to do that. But the moment you still have that ability, can't you take care of yourself? 'Cause you still have that property. Then you don't need that safety net, do you? Surely that is not fair to all those other people who have indicated that they own and therefore have no right to financial support at the time? How can you explain that to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u14	I'm going to go into the question of what's property, what's wealth, and whether you can actually make money out of it. Again, I agree with the VVD that if someone has assets that can be paid for, there is actually no reason to give that person any assistance at all. However, I would like to come back to 'express' or 'accidentally', because that is what matters in this situation, and I also say this in response to the question put by the PVV. At the moment when you deliberately cheat, therefore, I reserve the word 'fraud' for a particular situation and do not equate it with all other irregularities in social security, then I wholeheartedly agree that you must take away that property and ensure that someone is punished. But it is also that large grey area where it is not at all clear to people that they possessed it or that it could be paid for, because that is also equally important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u15	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u16	I have just asked a question about the care I have when people are taking their assistance, but the thought that someone is still possessing and therefore does not need assistance........................................................................................................................................................................................ The first question is, I just said, whether those assets are actually easy to make money. Think of shared property; not what you only have, but what you share with family members, for example, receive from an inheritance. Or look at the nature of that property. A lot of real estate may not be that easy to sell at all, and then that ability is also not easy to transfer to your savings account. That is how it can be written by the Secretary of State and I watched it go about an antique furniture or a stamp collection. A stamp collection! Try selling that in 2020 above the france value. There's no power in that. You can't afford that anymore. Next came the question of whether you have made sufficient effort to make money for that property. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to making money out of his own property. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the relationship between citizens and government. The huge focus on fraud, including from this Parliament, undermines citizens' confidence in the government. Too often people have experienced that the government is not there for them, but mostly opposes them. For example, I hear examples of people who do not dare to fill in a UWV survey on services, because they are afraid that they will be cut off on benefits. Others are haunted by social detectives, who sometimes use methods that the police should ask permission for. Let me mention here in particular the case of child care payments, in which hundreds of parents have been in trouble thanks to the Chamber, which again referred to 'fraud'. In that case, it is actually a similar approach. Pay back, add a fine and figure out what to do next. So in a few years' time, we will be able to see new groups here that have gotten into trouble because of our own obsession with enforcement and fraud. All right, let's finish. In this Parliament we should talk about the broad lines of our policy. We shouldn't want to apply micromanagement here. But this bill is about 150 households. That is 0.03% of the welfare population, and for that we are going to prepare and discuss central, binding legislation here! Mr. Chairman. Again, this bill is legislation for the stage, and GroenLinks does not participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u17	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan and she is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u18	Thank you. A municipality has rightly withdrawn the welfare allowance of a couple who owned more than 21 homes, with a total value of more than 1 million euros, just as separate from the monthly rental income of €2,000. Just a news flash this summer. People are rightly angry when they read that people have received benefits, while they can provide their own income through this wealth. Our welfare scheme is intended for people who can't do this. People who apply for assistance know that there are conditions for using the safety net. One of these is the resource test, which examines whether you still have the ability to provide for your income. If that is the case, for example because you still have money in the bank or a house abroad, you have to report it, so that the municipality can assess on the basis of that asset test whether you need to eat that property first, before you qualify for a benefit. As far as we are concerned, those who withhold information and are not honest bring about the solidarity of the system. It is unfair to all those people who say honestly what they still have and therefore have no right to financial support. Fortunately, in this case, the municipality concerned has done its job and suspended the benefit. I assume that they will recover the sums wrongly received. So that's where the shoe is wringing. Because now a municipality has to re-take a resource test in a new application for the benefit, and we have already talked about it extensively. The rule is: property is less debt. This will give rise to a new right to assistance, because it creates negative capacity. We find this unacceptable. We are therefore very pleased with the legislative proposal before us, which the previous Secretary of State, in connection with a motion by VVD and CDA, has been working on. It is also a nice first legislative amendment for this new Secretary of State. It is not only fair to all those who follow the rules properly. It is also a support for the social detectives of municipalities and the Social Insurance Bank. They often have to see that after often long and thorough research with the ability to find out, the benefit was stopped and fellow consultants then had to re-award it after a few weeks in the event of a new application. This bill is not specifically about the extent to which someone has violated the obligation to provide information. It concerns only the calculation of the assets of a new claim for a benefit after it has previously been established that there is capital. Recovery is a decision against which a person can object and appeal if he does not agree. I do have a number of supplementary questions to the Secretary of State, and they are essentially focused on research into this potential.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u19	Before you do that, there is a question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u20	Maybe this one can be taken right away. It's about social security. It's about trust. The point is that if you work very hard and pay taxes, you know that tax money does the right thing and doesn't end up with people who don't need it. Now we have seen in Rotterdam that there was some Labour Alderman's Party which, with just EUR 19 million to be recovered, did away with the assistance fraud, which he said: I am not going to collect it anymore. He said he did that because those cases were due to a great deal of statute of limitations. Do you not agree with me that limitation on assistance fraud can never take place and that the limitation period should therefore be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u21	There's a question you're asking. Quite frankly, I should look into that. I understand your call, and I understand your feeling of dishonesty, including in that. First of all, I would like to look a little more closely at what this limitation period looks like. Then maybe we can talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u22	In conclusion, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u23	That is very disappointing, because I have already tabled a motion on it and VVD voted against it. It's been a while, I think, almost a year. I assume that, in the meantime, this motion has been looked at with even more attention. My question is simply that there is a limitation period and whether the VVD does not agree with me that there should be no limitation period at all. You've committed welfare fraud. That's tax money coughed up by hardworking Dutch people. That money must never, ever be given away as a statute of limitations. That has to be returned. That has to be recovered. Does the VVD agree with me and, if so, if you agree with me on this point of principle, do you support that motion so directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u24	I did indeed vote against it last time, probably because the previous Secretary of State had an excellent explanation. It sounds nice to be able to do it, but I'm sure there are a lot of reasons why it's not that easy to do it. So if you retable that motion, I'm curious again about the government's explanation on this point and then we're going to re-evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u25	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan just said that this law does not matter what the degree of culpability is. The point is that this duty of intelligence has been violated in a way. I also hear the VVD can support that. That's what my question is about. Of course, you have a very big difference between a situation in which someone deliberately and intently commits fraud and a situation in which someone accidentally makes a mistake or, for example, someone is illiterate, so cannot read and write properly and therefore cannot be properly informed of all the rules. I would very much like to know why the VVD makes no distinction between the two groups. Why does the VVD punish the benevolent citizen who makes a mistake just as much as the fraudster?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u27	Let me put this to you. The concept of fraud is a concept enshrined in our social security system. I have just said, during Mr Renkema's interruption, that it might be a good idea to speak with one another about this degree of culpability. What are you gonna do if someone did something by accident? The amount of the fine is derived from that. But that's unrelated to this bill. In this bill, we say: the moment you have assets, you have no right to financial support for your livelihood. You'll have to sell or dispose of that property, or at least you'll have to show that you're doing the best you can to sell the property, that house, that apartment, or as far as I'm concerned, that mobile home. And when you've done that, and you fall below that power line again, then you're just entitled to another benefit. I hope, of course, that I will always say this in the direction of the Secretary of State................................................................................................................................................. Anyway, it shouldn't sound strange to you that I think that's an important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u28	I understand the workings of this law and I can also imagine that this can be an effect on people who deliberately cheat. Then you say, "We'll force you to build up your assets first." But I'm talking about people who, for example, still have an old and ruined house somewhere. They'll find out it's worth $20,000. Subsequently, aid is recovered for years, and they also receive a fine on top of that, although it may not be very high. But imagine that is an amount of €30,000 or €40,000. And those people couldn't help it. We have established that there is no gross guilt or demonstrable intent. These people have a negative capacity of €10,000 or €20,000. They can't help it. So they're already getting a recovery and a fine. And the VVD says: even if it was a mistake, we add a third punishment for that group of people. You can still imagine doing that to the obvious fraudsters, but can you motivate why you do the same to the other group? Why is that necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u29	All we're asking is that they take that property and sell it to pay back what they've gotten too much. And then when they fall below the power line again, they are just entitled to a benefit again. That's all this bill does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u30	Thank you. Mrs Nijkerken continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u31	I would like to put a number of questions to the Secretary of State, which, as I said, are mainly focused on research into this potential. Obsolete assets abroad can be traced by municipalities through the use of UWV's International Bureau of Fraud Information, but also through the use of private research agencies. I am getting reports that municipalities wishing to use these private agencies are discouraged by the IBF because this could harm "diplomatic relationships." I have asked written questions about this before. The answers show that the use of private agencies is simply possible, provided, of course, that they comply with the laws and regulations. Now, however, I continue to receive signals that the IBF continues to use the argument "damaging diplomatic relations" to praise itself vis-à-vis other agencies. As far as we are concerned, that cannot be the intention. Can the Secretary of State explain again what the relationship between the IBF and the private agencies is? And can the Secretary of State undertake to engage with IBF and municipalities to ensure that the use of private agencies becomes a widely accepted practice? For example, municipalities can carry out as effectively as possible research into hidden property abroad, or about assets. Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, as far as the VVD is concerned, people who do not have sufficient resources to support them can count on support. But let us also be very clear that it should not pay to hide things from us in order to be able to benefit in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u32	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u33	I have a question for the VVD about the role of the municipalities. We've talked a lot here about the Participation Act. This is quite a mandatory law, which from above lays down a lot for municipalities about how to act, even in individual cases. Especially when I have drawn attention to this, it can only be that the VVD says: but there is always a hardness clause, there is always room for customization, so we are not going to change the law; let that be nice to those municipalities. Why not do the same in this case? Why not say: for this we do not have to change the law; we leave that with the municipalities? In the example you mentioned, the municipality may or may not have intervened. In Tilburg there are a lot of interventions. But there are also municipalities watching: what exactly is the situation? I imagine that a director of social services, led by an alderman, is perfectly capable of dealing with these cases without a change of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u34	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u35	So I don't agree with you, Mr. Renkema, and I agree with you on the following. I am a very strong supporter of customization and assessment of individual situations. That's where you'll find me on your way. But municipalities can't decide differently individually here. That rule that property is property and debt is just a rule that is currently in the law. How it got in, I don't know. I still hope it's just a mistake we can make right now. But they can't say now: it applies to you and it doesn't apply to you. That's why I still support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u36	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk, who speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can you imagine not reading such a folder from the municipality all the way through? Can you imagine that after months you don't remember exactly what was in that one letter from the congregation? Can you imagine being a single mom on welfare being very happy when you get a car from your sick aunt? I do. Maybe you don't know exactly how much that car is worth, or maybe you forgot to pass this on to the city. It happened unconsciously, but your benefit will be cancelled and you'll get a fraud claim from the county. As a result of this change of law, you will not be eligible for a benefit or debt relief for the time being. Then how are you gonna support your family? You can get a money loan on terms, but one way or another you will have to pay it back later. Mr. Chairman. With this amendment, the government says that it will provide sufficient support for social security. But is it not precisely the mistrust of all welfare recipients that undermines the support for social security? In June 2020, 412.000 Dutch received a social assistance allowance. This legislative amendment has an annual impact on about 35 households. Shouldn't the government go out and trust instead of distrust? Why does the government talk about fraud or fraud if there is no evidence of gross negligence or intent? Why did the government not choose to take into account the degree of culpability in this amendment? The government considers "fraud" to be an appropriate term in line with the current social debate. But the social debate on the Tax Administration has taught us that there is a difference between a mistake and fraud. Not only people make mistakes, the government makes mistakes. The Scientific Council for Government Policy has concluded that people's capacity is overestimated. There is a big difference between what is expected of people and what they can actually handle. But once you're suspected of fraud by the government, you can get in trouble. There's a cross behind your name. You're not only gonna get a fine, you're not gonna get any more help. You won't only get a fraud claim and a fine, you won't get any more benefits or debt relief. You broke the rules and then you figure it out. If your benefit is stopped and you get a fraud claim, you can start an objection procedure. The burden of proof will be on you. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many objection procedures are launched each year in respect of an infringement of the intelligence obligation or fraud claim? How long do the objection procedures last on average? How often does the court decide annually on infringement of the duty of information or fraud? How many people are awarded each year after an objection procedure? How long do people average about paying off a fraud claim? How many people who claim fraud are now in debt? Mr. Chairman. The practice of social security is complex and no situation is the same, according to the Council of State in its opinion. The municipality has the space to make exceptions on the basis of personal circumstances. It may also decide to grant special assistance or to grant a loan of money in order to prevent a person from getting into major financial difficulties. Can the Secretary of State indicate how often such exceptions are made? How often is special assistance provided following infringement of the obligation to provide information? And how often is a money loan granted after breach of the intelligence obligation? How many of these 35 households will eventually receive special assistance? Mr President, I will conclude. Mr Renkema said it strikingly in his speech: this is symbolic politics of the highest shelf. You'd almost call it a right-wing bully law, but I wanted to do justice to the bill. That is why I asked all these questions to the Secretary of State. But this is about 35 households a year. Of course, the Labour Party is against fraud, but precisely when it comes to the concept of fraud, the question of culpability and its extent, it appears that in practice many people get into trouble and that the government does not always play the right role. The Labour Party therefore wants a broader debate on how we deal with social security and how we can rely on trust in people rather than distrust. Our entire social security system is based far too much on repression, of "if you apply for a benefit, you probably don't have a right to it." The Labour Party is not involved in this. It is also clear that the Labour Party will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u38	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Peters. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I call Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have said it here before: the government should behave like a good neighbor. If my neighbor asks for help, so will I, but under conditions. My neighbor, for example, will have to do everything in his power not to need my help every time. My neighbor has to do what he can himself. Also, he shouldn't close the door if I need it for once. A neighbor who asks me to help him when he doesn't need my help and can easily do it himself is not a good neighbor. That's what I call a profiteer. All too well, neighbors are crazy. Mr. Chairman. The reason for this bill is the story of people who receive welfare benefits in our country when, for example, they have significant assets in a foreign country or elsewhere. So these people don't need our help. Sometimes it comes out. It is right, therefore, that it will have to be repaid and that the assistance of fraudsters will be stopped. And if the claim is directly deducted from the assets, and then concludes that the assistance can be paid out again, I simply don't think it is the intention. Back to my imaginary neighbor, chairman. Suppose I'm mowing his lawn because the good man himself isn't capable of it because of problems, but it turns out those problems don't exist at all. From the torch that the neighbor then gets, he gets into trouble again on paper, and then I mow his grass again. I don't think that's the idea. But apart from my neighbor, as always, there are more sides to this case. Anyone who does not need help and yet asks for help must bear the consequences, but those consequences must remain proportionate. It should not be the case that people, even if they have been cheated, are completely destroyed. In other words, those who are evil deserve a dow, but other people deserve help. I see three groups in that and I would ask the Secretary of State to respond in this way. First of all, there are people who seem to have a huge potential. Mr. Renkema mentioned that; it was a mall and several houses. That comes out and there's no problem: they pay back what they've gotten too much and get a fine as far as I'm concerned. We all agree on that. A second group consists of people who have a wealth, but in whom it is not so one-two-three to be paid. If we say 'you have no benefit from now on and you see it all to be done', then we are putting people in serious trouble. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond in such a way that those people can still live if they are unable to make money directly. Thirdly, there are those who are rightly punished. They have assets, and they can make money, and they're gonna do it. I would like to confirm here once again that once the problem has been resolved that they are below the capital limit, they can, of course, apply for a benefit, so that they do not get into trouble in this way. Then I have a few questions to the Secretary of State, and then an amendment, which is actually separate from this part of the Participation Act. I'll get to that in a minute. Mr. Chairman. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the explanatory memorandum to this law clearly shows that it is still possible to provide people with benefits, even if they have cheated under the law? The second question is: how can the Secretary of State guarantee that penalties remain proportionate and that the individual cases can always be considered carefully, for example in the case of fraud claims caused by negligence on the part of a legitimate representative? Can the Secretary of State confirm that the number of expected cases will remain manageable, so that a good manual and personal approach will remain possible? Finally, is the Secretary of State prepared to keep the Chamber informed of the effects of the introduction of this amendment? I just want to be able to see that people who deserve that are actually getting their asses kicked and that people aren't unintentionally being finally destroyed. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to an adjacent point that is separate from the power key. It is a point on which I would like to amend the Participation Act. Anyone who asks for solidarity must take responsibility. A person who is dependent on the community for his income can be expected to do everything he can to keep to the rules and do everything he can not depend on others up to the length of days. That is why the law is clear: fraud must not be paid and unjustly obtained money will have to be repaid, preferably and possibly with a fine on top of it. For real fraudsters that is only normal; there is no misunderstanding about that. Abuse of social services undermines solidarity and needs to be addressed, but practice is often more complicated. In order to establish what someone is entitled to, there is the so-called obligation to provide information, and that really is not just about the ability. A beneficiary must provide information on his or her work and financial situation up to the decimal place. That makes sense, and it is, but it is certainly not always easy. Especially when you do everything you can to get out of welfare and are dependent on temporary jobs, temporary or part-time jobs. The harder someone tries to get out of trouble independently, the more complicated it becomes to pass on the right information at the right time. We can say quietly that we ask most of those people, with the least possibility, in the most difficult circumstances. And mistakes are made, and then we often have no mercy. Failure to comply with the obligation to provide information would be tantamount to fraud. Fraud is a serious problem, and so it happens that people who try to get out of welfare end up in debt, in this case with a debt to the municipality. Not because they really cheat, but because we've made things so complicated that making mistakes is hard to prevent. Fortunately, the same city helps people with debts. The debt relief department makes arrangements and makes payment arrangements with creditors to give people a clean lead. Often that goes pretty well, but not by a long shot. It would be nice, for example, if the municipality could also agree with the municipality on debts with the municipality, but that could not be done, because a fine is not a debt but a punishment, and there is no way to bargain with punishment. And so it happens that section A of the municipality has to go to court to force section B of that same municipality to agree to an arrangement on a fine that no one would actually have wanted to give him. We keep each other busy and at the expense of people who need perspective on work, income and a clean slate. Mr. Chairman. We therefore call for the possibility to offer tailor-made work within the Participation Act. Not for real fraudsters, but for people who do anything to stop being dependent on others but have misplaced a point or a comma somewhere. If a municipality has to impose a fine for violating the obligation to provide information, the municipality itself should be able to decide whether that claim could be waived in the context of municipal debt relief. It's a perspective. That offers customization. Saves costs and effort and an unnecessary walk to court. As far as the CDA is concerned, it makes sense, doesn't it? What is the position of the Secretary of State on the amendment which has also been tabled on behalf of the Christian Union and deals with this exactly? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u40	Thank you very much. You are referring to the amendment tabled in respect of item No. 11. For the administration. I saw Mr Raemakers first. Go ahead. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u41	A fine amendment by Mr Peters. I also think it is right that he should distinguish between those who deliberately commit fraud and those who, in his words, make a mistake once; they should be punished less harshly. I am therefore very curious whether Mr Peters can also support my amendment, which is exactly the same, namely to distinguish between intent and gross guilt and to make a mistake by mistake. Because that's also the law we're talking about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u42	That's really not about the same thing. Thank you for the compliment, Mr Raemakers, as I say through the chairman, but that is not really about the same thing. If you're applying for welfare, you're gonna need help. If you have a significant ability somewhere else, you don't need that help. If you're gonna ask for that help, by accident or not, you're gonna have that power right there. At the moment, it is true: if the municipality finds out you have that assets there, then of course there is a claim against it. That's how we organized it. If we can remove that claim from that property, then that person still doesn't need any help, but now it's legal to have a social security allowance. It can't be. So I'm not going to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u43	But this example is not correct, at least not in all cases. It is possible that someone actually has a capital of €20,000, but also debts of €40,000. Then it makes much more sense, we as D66 say, to use that €20,000 capital to pay off those debts and get good help from the municipality. And if you don't get welfare benefits in the meantime, what do you have to eat, drink and pay for the roof over your head? Then you're gonna have to put yourself back in debt. You can still say: in the case of people who have deliberately cheated, that may be what they deserve. But for people who have made a mistake or who are illiterate, I would have expected to be able to count on the CDA: those people don't deserve to get them into any more trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u44	Firstly, I believe that no one should be without food at all or should be in deeper trouble, not even the biggest fraudster. Let's at least get that straight. So I am also asking the Secretary of State to make sure that even someone who has cheated must always be able to eat. But the law rules that the one who has to eat of the wealth he has somewhere first. So he doesn't need that help. He's just gonna eat the power he has instead of saying, "I have a fortune here. I got too much. I didn't need that help afterwards. Now that all of a sudden it's a debt. I still have that power. I'm gonna break it off against the guilt. Will you pay for my food, neighbor?" The neighbor says, "Be cool, we're not gonna do that." Not in this case either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u45	Clear. Then Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u46	Frankly, Mr Raemakers has asked my question about it, but I am fascinated by that example of the neighbour. In Mr Peters' worldview, it is actually very clear. He's mowing the lawn for his neighbor very well that he is doing so, but when it turns out that this neighbor doesn't need it, there's no need for help. But the proposal that is before us does not rule out the fact that there are people among those neighbors of yours who are simply cheating, in the sense that I used it tonight. There's also people in there who got into it. Between black and white there are a lot of colors of grey. I do not see that difference between people in this proposal at all. I honestly do not understand that from Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u47	No, it doesn't say that. It says: There's just a power somewhere about whether or not that's enough, Mr. Renkema, and so we've all agreed that the person in question doesn't need that help. That power's right here. Then we'll give him a social security allowance. That's wrong, because he didn't need it and so there was no problem in the sense of our law. It'll come out, so that person has to pay it back. He'll turn that off against the ability he has. I can give you an example, if you like, as an example. A gentleman has a second house in Spain of €65,000. He didn't give this up at the county. After five years, the city finds out. The municipality recovers the wrongly obtained assistance: five times €14,000 is €70,000. A normal culpability shall be established. He will receive a fine of €5,400 tailored to the individual situation. The fact that he is entitled to deduct his claims for breach of the obligation to provide information from his property means that he returns to the assistance and does not have to use his home for the cost of his existence or for the repayment of his debts. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u48	Mr Renkema, briefly, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u49	Yeah, rounding it up. Mr Peters again explains what the bill is. I understand that very well, but this is what I am concerned about. There is not such a sharp demarcation line in the vein of: these people are wrong and these people are good. There's a very large gray area. There is no mention of that in this proposal. If there's fraud, you'll find me completely by your side. But there are also other situations, as we can see from the problems we have with the Tax Administration when it comes to childcare. Of course, we had to deal with the Bulgarian fraud, but look how much misery we've caused.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u50	I'd like to respond briefly. It's really not about the word "fraud." I am concerned that there is a wealth somewhere, so someone doesn't need help, while they get help in the form of assistance. We all agreed that we wouldn't ask for help if we didn't need it strictly. Then we are right to say: you did not need that help, so can I please have it back? And then they get that too much leverage as a debt against that ability. Then he'll have both that power and help. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u51	Then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u52	Mr Peters spoke at the beginning of his speech about a distinction in three different categories. I am not going to repeat those three categories, but I found category two very interesting. It was about the group that can't make a piece of money. I would like to ask Mr Peters where in the legislative proposal he has discovered that something is being arranged for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u53	I have asked the Secretary of State to confirm that in this case, when it is not possible, these people could still receive benefits. That's one. I hope and expect the Secretary of State to say: yes, it can. It is not intended that someone who cannot make money should live off the air, or something like that, because that is not possible. The question after that is... So it's possible. Then I said: I would also like to see it happen. That's actually the question Mr. Van Dijk of the Labour Party asked the Secretary of State, because if something can theoretically be done as customization, but it doesn't happen, it's not going to do you any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u54	In conclusion, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u55	This is interesting, because here is suddenly customization possible. The point is this. When this is included in the bill, it goes to the municipality, to the Social Insurance Bank; they have to implement it. The moment they implement it, they adhere to the legal text, to the text as it stands. And exactly about that second category, which you are also concerned about, nothing is included in the amendment to the bill. So you can say it's possible if the Secretary of State says it's possible, but no, it doesn't work that way. Because it's the letter of the law and the letter of the law that doesn't regulate it. I would like to see how the CDA is going to take action in order to settle it for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u56	I have said very clearly, and I think that is true; I have appointed this group here, and I would like to hear that these people do not come into insurmountable problems in this way. A municipality will, of course, have to work out how it sees it and makes it clear. It's not that many cases. That is what I think Mr Van Dijk said: it is not about a lot of people. So I want to be able to see that this is caught that way. That's what I asked the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u57	I'd like to give it a shot. I believe that the political debate is mainly about what is not covered by this law but what is in front of it. Is a fraud action justified or not? What is the degree of culpability? That is where the political debate lies, as far as I am concerned. There's a lot of gray in there. There are indeed people who make a mistake. The current practice is that this is difficult to distinguish from one another. That is also the criticism of the Council of State about this law, because it refers to the concept of fraud, which is very broad. That's also about the people I was talking about, the people who make a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u58	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u59	Should we not uphold this law and settle it properly first, Mr Peters' amendment is good and goes in that direction before we take this harsh measure? Because there is a chance that we will be hitting households who do not have any faulty assets somewhere, who cannot make that money and who are therefore in trouble because of this bill. I would like to see people who are not guilty of fraud not affected by this. I am not convinced that this bill will prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u60	Let me take two examples. My amendment is not about the power test, so it is not about people who didn't need help because they still had power somewhere. A lot of things happen every day: someone goes to work temporarily, work part-time, work through temporary employment agencies. It's very complicated and sometimes it goes wrong. That's where we find each other. I really agree with that. That's where things go wrong, and sometimes it's not fraud, it's a mistake. Hence my amendment. The proposal now before us, which is primarily about people who have assets and therefore do not need assistance. They don't need them, and if they do need them, they need them. But they don't need it because they have that ability. Whether someone has that ability by accident or on purpose, it doesn't matter at all, because he has it, so he doesn't need any assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u61	No, it's the grey area in which the government makes mistakes; we know that. We have been strongly reminded of this by the issue of fees in the Tax Administration. We see it happening in practice that people are then really getting into trouble: single mothers who still have power somewhere and ultimately have to grub it up without anything. Neither does Mr Peters. I would like to urge the CDA first of all to make the concept of fraud much clearer: what is reproachable and what is not reproachable? Then you will also find the Labour Party on your side and then look at the really culpable fraud and intervene hard on it. But now the area is far too grey and if we adopted this proposal, the social consequences would really be too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u62	This isn't about fraud. No way! I'm talking about people who just don't need assistance because there's a fortune. Those people have a fortune. So we don't think they need any help. They're gonna get it anyway. And then we say, "Oh, you've been caught; now you can keep both the wealth and the welfare." It can't be! That's the point. It's not about fraud or fraud. I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u63	Thank you. One last attempt by Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u64	In the clear world view of Mr Peters comes this neighbor and he asks: can you mow my lawn? And it didn't turn out to be necessary afterwards. I don't know how many times a neighbor wrongly mows the grass because he doesn't have a knee at all. In my opinion, that won't happen so often. But I don't care about people who have a lot of power. It's also about a stamp collection in that letter. In other words, someone can have a welfare allowance and at some point it is known that somewhere in the attic there is another stamp collection. Holy shit, he should have reported it anyway! And did he actually put it on Catawiki or on Marketplace? Well, that's what we're gonna have to do. Making money from possession is essential. It seems so simple to say: this is about fraud, these people do not need it and we are going to stop doing so. But it's far less obvious than the way you put it here. Reply to that stamp collection or to that antique furniture that's called!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u65	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u66	Well, is the point clear? Speaking of a simple world view! Then you can do some of it, Mr. Renkema. I'm not interested in whether something is fraud or not. I am concerned that if someone has money, money, wealth, we have all agreed that that person will just take care of himself. We agreed that that person would just make that up, because he or she would have to ask the community otherwise. That's just what we all agreed on. Well, let's do that. And right now, we're saying, "You got caught." Then we're going to sell the city's claim against the money and then you and those funds that can still be made can keep and you're entitled to assistance. That's true now. That's unfair. Really! And you can't. That won't be necessary. I agree with you that if something is not to be paid, for whatever reason, then people go to the congregation and say: it's all nice and nice, but it can't be done here. Then the municipality must say: yes, we can't do that here. And then that person just keeps his allowance. Otherwise, that person will have to eat off the air, and it won't be like we all thought of it. I have asked the Secretary of State to confirm that, b to follow that and c or indeed it is not so large that it is all administrative, as Mr Van Dijk says. Because then you can wait for trouble. I asked for that reason and I assume that the answer is: yes, it may, it will happen; it is not about such large numbers, we can keep an eye on that and we will also inform you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u67	For that, we will await the answer. Thank you, Mr. Peters. I would now like to give the floor to Mr De Jong. He speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u68	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet strengthens on paper access to assistance for people with outstanding claims and fines for fraud in social security. Fraudsters, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, can still benefit from assistance even if they have substantial assets at home and abroad. According to the Cabinet, the present law ensures that the property must be sold first or the debt repaid before a benefit can be granted. Now it is still the case that someone who commits fraud with assistance on the basis of the capital frontier may again be entitled to a benefit. We think that's crazy. It is therefore a good thing that this is now being dealt with in part. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm sure you'll hear it right: part of it. 'Cause even now, this cabinet isn't gonna move on. With this bill, fraudsters will continue to be entitled to benefits in the future. That's crazy! Why should we allow someone who has deliberately committed fraud to make use of our benefits at a possible later date? Of course, there must never be another view of a benefit. Why does this cabinet not prevent that, if someone has proven to have deliberately committed fraud with the assistance, he or she will ever be able to receive a social assistance allowance? But that's not the only thing that goes wrong. It is ridiculous that this bill states that, if someone does not have any assets that can reasonably be held, he can still receive assistance in the event of fraud. Why? Why do we have to take account of the financial situation of a fraudster? He's a fraud. With this crazy rule, of course, he'll just be able to cover up his property fraudulently. This is an opening for even more abuse. He just has to pay back, left or right. And if he doesn't come out financially, he'll just ask his family and friends around to help him. But leave the taxpayer alone. I'd like a response. What is also not settled is that a claim can no longer be called into question. Why not? It's the least you can do. We saw it last year, when just before 19 million in assistance fraud was charged in Rotterdam, it was no longer recovered, because it would have been statute of limitations. Seriously, chairman, the hard-working Dutch taxpayer is disadvantaged in one pen stroke by some weak PvdA alderman for just over 19 million. In the meantime, the welfare frauder is laughing his ass off. To commit fraud and then not have to pay it back from the municipality: it is unbelievable. And nobody's gonna hear about it. I want us to protect hard-working Dutch people from this kind of weak aldermen and that limitation period will be removed today. Can the Secretary of State agree to that? Otherwise, for the umpteenth time, I shall table a motion. Let me be clear. Anyone who commits fraud with the assistance needs to be dealt with, no matter where you come from, what your name is, who you are. But we still have to face the facts. Let's not fool ourselves. All this has been brought to a roll by all those fraud Turks, who have been robbing our welfare jars with fat apartments in Turkey. In my time as a Member of Parliament, I have requested debates, written questions on them, tabled motions on them, put forward proposals to stop this massive attack on our welfare state. Then nothing was done with it by all those VVD executives. Foreign benefit fraudsters still get away with it over and over again. How is that possible? Previously, the AD reported that Bureau Abroad made an estimate that at least 20% to 30% of Turks with welfare benefits frauds with the assistance. EenVandaag also reported: in the municipality of Tilburg 20% to 30%. Examples where fraudsters in the Netherlands receive a welfare allowance, while they now have a house in Turkey of €100,000 or have an apartment complex or hotel of 2 million or a real estate project of more than €500,000. I'm not making that up. Those are the facts. It just happens. And I'm not even talking about all those Moroccans who are cheating on welfare. And that's not easy to do either, because Morocco doesn't participate in research. They say, "Fuck you, it's your assistance and therefore your problem." We have debated it so many times and I have to read in a letter from the cabinet that there is still no snare. Why don't you just tell Morocco that if they don't cooperate, we won't give any Moroccan benefits? Why don't you just say treaties that stand in the way of all this? Why is this cabinet so weak? Mr President, I will conclude. This cabinet indicates that the assistance is ultimately there for everyone. I disagree. It should never or never be there again for welfare fraudsters. In order to prevent us from getting any more misery, we need to find the solutions at the core and recognise that being a welfare state and being an immigration country do not go hand in hand. So we have to close the borders for profiteers. We need to drastically restrict access to our social security for foreigners. We need to stop exporting our welfare benefits. We have to be tough on whoever's cheating on us, and we have to tell them there's no place for them in this country. For those of you who like social security, these are logical points of view. So it's a great opportunity for this new Secretary of State. Show me how strict the VVD is in practice. Show them that fraud doesn't pay off, as it always does during campaigning times. I'm curious. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u69	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers, speaking on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u70	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the floor. Today I am replacing my colleague Van Beukering in this debate. The Secretary of State's bill aims to ensure that fraud does not pay off. The members of the D66 Group support this intention. Combating fraud is, after all, in the interests of support for social security. However, our group has a number of reservations about the way in which the fight against fraud is worked out in this legislative proposal. I would like to further explain three of these reservations: the need for additional punishment on top of the existing measures, the definition of fraud used and the denial of the right to social security assistance. First of all, I would like to mention the need for additional punishment on top of the existing measures. The bill is designed to prevent fraud from paying off. The Secretary of State therefore proposes that persons who have not complied with the obligation to provide information may be excluded from the right to assistance. This is in addition to the measures already in place, namely the recovery of benefits unduly received and an administrative or criminal fine. Therefore, this already penalises the interested party. The interested party must repay the sums unduly received and shall be fined on top of that. Although the Secretary of State states that the proposal is explicitly not intended as an additional penalty, it thus appears in practice that it can still work out as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u71	Is this the end of that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u72	It's a little bit further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u73	Shall we do that again? Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u74	Indeed, it seems possible that one person may have to appeal to all his or her assets to pay the recoveries and fines and also lose the right to assistance. This assistance may at that time be necessary to meet the daily needs of life. The loss could therefore be regarded as additional punishment. That would be contrary to the principle of ne bis in idem, not twice punishment for the same. Can the Secretary of State explain to me that there is no double penalty for the same offence and that this never, in any case, works out that way for people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u75	There is a question from Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u76	If I may, I have more of a question for clarification to Mr Raemakers. Is he saying to someone who has kept a secret that he has a considerable wealth somewhere and therefore does not really need assistance: wait a minute, it cannot be that we see that wealth lying there and that we are not going to help you with welfare benefits for punishment? That's weird, isn't it? I'm asking through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u77	I think that someone who has been wrongly paid benefits because he had assets should do everything in his power to try to sell that wealth. Especially when there is fraud, I think it is also right to say: we are recovering everything and you have to pay a fine. I would merely point out that this bill proposes a third sentence on top of that. That punishment is the denial of assistance. Especially in cases where the debt is greater than the assets, or almost as large, this can really bring people further into debt. For those people, it's just an extra sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u78	In conclusion, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u79	It doesn't say that. It says someone's entitled to assistance if they're back under the power line. So I really don't know where you read that. It just doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u80	For this law, the concept of property is adjusted. It is said that debts arising from recovery and fines are not included in the asset concept. That implies this amendment of the law. You can still talk about that in case someone deliberately bottled the place. If someone really says 'I'm going to get an unjustified welfare allowance', there may be talk of imposing an extra sentence on top of that, but even then I have legal reservations. But especially for the group that doesn't do this consciously, there's just an extra punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u81	Interrupts actually go in half. So very briefly, finalizing. I don't think you're gonna agree. Maybe it's good to get back to that in the second term. Would that be a good proposal? I see that this is the case. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken, for her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u82	Now do I understand that D66 actually says that there is no need for a power test for the assistance? Isn't that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u83	No, I didn't say that, and you didn't hear that anywhere. We can certainly read that back in the Acts. All I'm saying is what this bill does, which is to change the concept of wealth. I understand the intentions of this, but that can also mean the following for people who have to pay a great deal of money for recovery. If all those debts aren't counted, you actually have a distorted asset image of someone. I think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u84	Finalizing, Mrs. Nijkerken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u85	Mr. Raemakers can make it very big, with a lot of different types of debt and with know it all, but back to the core he says the following. You think it is disproportionate, which you also write in the amendment. But isn't your amendment disproportionate to all those people who have properly indicated that they have wealth and ate it themselves before they could claim financial support in the form of welfare benefits? In fact, you say, as your party apparently does now: it doesn't matter whether you have wealth or whether you have said it or not; it doesn't matter; you're still entitled to welfare benefits. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u86	No, that's the other extreme. I think there's quite a middle ground to be found. I think that in terms of the concept of wealth, it is important that some people have assets, but also debts. The moment you compare that situation with that of people who have properly complied with the duty of intelligence, as Mrs Nijkerken does, you overlook the fact that the person who violated the duty of intelligence has already been punished in two ways. The first way is with a recovery. The benefit must be reimbursed. Secondly, there is also an administrative fine. It is therefore not the case that the person who does keep to the duty of intelligence has a huge disadvantage. If we take on the person who has not complied with the intelligence obligation, then that person will already be subject to two sanctions. The supposed advantage is thus already taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u87	Very briefly finishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u88	He'll be privileged, because he'll be allowed to keep the wealth, the possession. This is precisely the point: he is allowed to keep the property and then at the same time he gets his welfare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u89	I disagree. That person gets the job: try to dispose of your assets, try to sell them and also try to pay off your debts. If a community really delivers customization, I think you should put a coach with a person like that and say, "Okay, how are we gonna sell your belongings?" How are we gonna pay off your debts? But someone like that needs food and drink and a roof over his head. So I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u90	I agree with the fundamental criticism of D66. I fully support it, but what is the political consequence? If the Secretary of State does nothing or does little or gives an unsatisfactory answer on this point, will you vote against the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u91	It is not for nothing that we have tabled an amendment to the extent that we see as the greatest injustice of the proposed law. For us, therefore, it is very important whether or not the amendment is successful. We also have a number of other questions for the Secretary of State. Suppose that the amendment you are now participating in would make it, it has still not been said that we will vote in favour of the legislative proposal, because we see a number of other bottlenecks. I await the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u92	Clear. In conclusion, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u93	I'd like to wait and see, Mr. Chairman. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u94	Thank you. Mr Raemakers continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u95	Secondly, the definition of fraud used. The draft law uses a broad concept of fraud, which can also be designated as a fraud if there is no deliberate failure to comply with obligations. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the State Secretary writes: the degree of culpability or the question of whether this offence was committed intentionally or unconsciously is irrelevant. The Council of State advises to reconsider this definition of fraud in this bill. What does the Secretary of State think of the Council of State's reaction to the concept of fraud? Can the Secretary of State indicate in what percentage of cases of fraud involving the obligation of information there is evidence of intent or gross negligence? Because of the broad concept of fraud, there is a grey area between fraud and an error, in which this law is to the detriment of those who are less well able to be fully aware of all regulations. Intentional fraud is, of course, reprehensible, but I would like to avoid anyone being regarded as a fraud because of a mistake and thereby losing the right to assistance. According to the principle of "no punishment without guilt," there should be no penalty if there is no guilt or intent. The definition used has a major impact on the drafting of this legislative proposal. Given the potential serious consequences of this bill, it is important that we treat people as fraud with care. My question is whether the Secretary of State can indicate what he is going to do to minimise the risk that people are wrongly regarded as fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u96	A question from Mr De Jong. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u97	The honourable Member of D66 himself has just given an example. He said: someone in another country suddenly finds out that he has an apartment that suddenly turns out to be worth €20,000. In general, such examples are much higher amounts, but well, that is the example you gave yourself. There can be no mistake in the same example. Why not? Because you have a responsibility to indicate which property you have at the time you apply for welfare benefits. Even if you doubt the value of your possession, you have the responsibility to declare it. This also applies to people who are illiterate, for example. Those people also have the responsibility to make that known, so that, for example, the municipality can provide tailor-made services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u98	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u99	Where do you see people's own responsibility in these two examples? Furthermore, do you agree with me that there can no longer be any mistake in those cases, and that there has just been a laughable act and that there must be a consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u100	No, I don't entirely agree with you, and the reason is as follows. People will usually know what possessions they have; they don't always know that either. There may be a certain legacy, or indeed that stamp collection in the attic. Usually people will know they have the property, but research shows that only 82% of those questioned were familiar with the obligation to declare foreign assets. This means that one in five people does not know that this obligation exists. These people may not be so skilled in filling out forms that they know exactly what to answer everywhere. For this we have proper criteria: demonstrable intent, gross guilt, normal culpability, reduced culpability. If the authorities say 'this is only normal or lesser reproachable', then I have to say as a Member of Parliament: then there is no intent or gross guilt and these people are not really to blame. I guess it was a mistake. I stand up for those people. I would actually hope that the PVV would come up with this for people who make a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u101	I particularly stand up for the people who work very hard, have to pay taxes every time and see that the money goes to people who shouldn't get it. Of course: if you ask a fraud "Did you know to report this?', Then he'll say, "No, no, I really didn't know that." Last time there was someone at Nieuwsuur who had committed fraud for years and had to pay back €152,000. He said, "I didn't know I had to report it." He couldn't speak Dutch; that's also crazy, that he got welfare benefits, but good. Anyway, he said he didn't know that. But if you go to Rijksoverheid.nl and you look at the conditions, you will also see them in all kinds of different languages, for example in Turkish, whatever I think of them. There's no reason not to know. Where is this whole story's own responsibility? Surely it can't be that on the one hand you have a hardworking Dutchman who has to cough up that money, and then we accept that a fraud who says "I didn't know" gets a pet on the ball and gets away with fraud? Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u102	I am not going along with this story by Mr De Jong of the PVV. There are all legal concepts for that and he actually says: nice, all those legal concepts and nice that we have bodies, and sometimes also judges, who really see if someone has done it knowingly and whether they knew it etc., but that is not so important, because we think everyone can know it. Actually, the representative of the PVV says that here today. I say no, we have authorities and judges who say to us: this person cannot be blamed. And then the government comes up with a bill. The government says: well, whether you can blame people or not, we're just gonna punish everyone extra. And I am tabling an amendment to that effect, with which I say: that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u103	Very brief, finalizing. And then we really go back to interrupting in two, because otherwise it really ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u104	Over the past decades, every effort has been made to provide as many people as possible with benefits. The whole system is set up to do that. People have been made as easy as possible, for example by informing them about the rules even in their own language, wherever they come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u105	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u106	My question is: why do you run away from people's own responsibility? The fact that a person gets a social security allowance at all when he speaks Turkish is too crazy. He says to "I didn't know" when he should have known. That is clear everywhere. But D66 says, no, I don't. He could run away with fraud. That's not fair to the people who have to cough that up, is it? Why do you run away from your own responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u107	What the PVV says here is contradictory. First of all, everyone must know and be aware of the obligation to provide information. So now I hear that we are obviously doing everything we can, including in the Turkish language, to make it clear to people with a Turkish background what the information they need is, and then it is not good again. So we don't agree. We really look at social security differently. And as D66 we also have a different human image than the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u108	Then I think it's a good idea for you to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u109	Mr. Chairman. So I asked the Secretary of State what he's going to do to minimize the risk that we'll identify people who make a mistake as fraud. But, of course, it is a law, so we cannot just ask the Secretary of State; we will also have to take our own legislative task seriously. We, the D66, have drawn up an amendment to that effect. Meanwhile, the groups of the SP, PvdA, GroenLinks and DENK have also joined. You can, of course, all read that amendment. We propose that this law only applies to people who have violated the obligation of information and who have been established and proven to have done so with demonstrable intent or gross negligence. People to whom it is less or not reproachable that they have violated intelligence obligations, for example because they have made a mistake or were not aware of the rules, are not covered by this law as far as we are concerned. Of course, these people must also do their best to make money. Of course, these people have to recover and pay any fines. But we believe that it is too hard for these people, who cannot even be found guilty, to take the benefit at once for a longer period of time. That's disproportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u110	I see Mrs Nijkerken at the interrupting microphone, and Mr Raemakers is talking about the amendment that has now been tabled under number 12. Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u111	Let me get this straight. In the case of intent or gross debt, someone must sell their assets and assets, according to your amendment, but someone who acts by mistake or less reproachable, or do I know what other degrees we all know, doesn't have to sell it? That is exactly what your amendment is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u112	No, because I just explained it to you. We believe that people, even if they have no gross guilt or demonstrable intent, should still try to sell their house or whatever and to pay for the recovery. It would be nice if they could get more help from the municipality, because we in D66 do not think that everyone in the assistance wants to commit fraud and thinks: we are going to take advantage of it. We believe that everyone, at least most people in life, wants to make the best of it and keep to the rules. What we are saying is that in those cases where there is no evidence of intent or gross guilt, we are not going to give people a third sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u113	Finishing Mrs. Nijkerken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u114	Let me get this straight. The VVD doesn't say anyone with welfare benefits is a fraud. You outline your worldview, and I would like to oppose it, because you have not heard me say what you are saying here. But at the moment your amendment goes through, the municipality literally and figuratively has no excuse to stand up to say to the applicant concerned: you must first sell your assets. 'Cause they're below the power line, so they're straight. Municipalities don't have to give help to sell anything, because they don't have to sell anything, because they're below the power line and they're allowed to keep it! This is exactly what your amendment is doing, and I wonder how D66 explains this to all those people who have indicated at the front: I own, I have a nice caravan somewhere in the Achterhoek that is worth just over €12,000, of which the municipality says: very sorry, but you will have to sell it before you qualify for a benefit. How are you going to explain that to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u115	First of all, let's talk about the concept of fraud. It is nice that Mrs Nijkerken of the VVD does not label everyone in the assistance who makes a mistake as a fraud, but that is what this law does. I would also like to point out to the representative of the VVD. If you agree to the law and not to our amendment, then perhaps the VVD itself does not have that definition, but this law does. Then about the example of that stimulus. Mrs Nijkerken says that municipalities will no longer have any incentive. I think municipalities should help a lot more. The human image of D66 is right that you need that stimulus, that stick in a few cases where it's really detectable: okay, that's where you might need it. There's talk about that. But, in most cases, we need to help people with assistance. They take care of it and say: let's solve this problem together. Perhaps more capacity should be added to this and so on. I want to talk about all of that, but not for everyone like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u116	I ask you to continue your argument. I do not think you will get together, otherwise we will see in the second term whether it is necessary to go into that further. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u117	Mr. Chairman. Another aspect. This legislation also presents challenges for the implementing body. The law contains several ambiguous concepts and I agree with the Secretary of State where he states that this law requires customization of the performer, the municipality. On the other hand, it is also important to avoid too many differences between municipalities in the application of certain concepts. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he is going to ensure that municipalities apply the same standards in assessing cases of breach of the information obligation, for example in determining the degree of culpability and determining what applies if it can reasonably be possessed? Mr. Chairman. The third and final point is the denial of the right to social security assistance. I would like to emphasise that here. The right to assistance is enshrined in Article 20 of the Constitution. There must be very serious arguments to deny this right. This law makes it more plausible that persons who have to pay a fine and recover also lose the assistance. Especially if the fine and the recovery are significantly greater than the hidden assets, this can be a major problem. In these cases, this capacity should not be eaten before it can be applied for assistance, but should be used, possibly with the help of the municipalities, to repay the debt. If people do not receive assistance, this can lead to the build-up and worsening of debts, with all the social and personal consequences. In my view, this consequence is the total removal of this benefit, not in proportion to the wrong but not always intentional breach of the information obligation. Nor has it been demonstrated that this is proportionate. Why should a lighter remedy, such as reducing the benefit by 10% or 20% in such a case, not be better than taking the benefit completely straight away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u118	Has your point been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u119	Yeah, but I have a couple of questions about that, too. Shall I do that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u120	Yes. Ask the questions first. Then I'll give you the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u121	I am therefore particularly concerned with those poignant cases, people who no longer have food and drink. Can the Secretary of State state state what he's going to do to prevent such poignant cases? Can he assure the Chamber that he can continue to fulfil his constitutional obligation, even if he lays down the implementation of this law, as usual of course in the case of assistance, with the municipalities? In short, how can he be sure that no one, in any congregation, is going to be hungry or homeless by this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u122	Thank you. A brief question from Mr Peters. I really want to ask you to leave out the introductory speeches. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u123	I'm always short. I'm tall, but keep it short. Let's say, Mr. Raemakers, that it would say, "I think it also says that if the assets were sold, you would be entitled to assistance once again. Would you agree to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u124	Still don't. I did indeed ask a number of questions about it, because, for example, we have objections to one the extra punishment it is and two the concept of fraud. If that were to be in an article somewhere now, an objection would be removed by Mr Peters immediately. That would be nice, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u125	In conclusion, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u126	Well, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u127	Look, we've already answered one of our many questions. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna work towards a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u128	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u129	We support the intention to combat intentional fraud. However, we still see a number of ways in which this bill has far-reaching consequences. In particular, if there is no evidence of intent or gross negligence, the proposed sanction is disproportionate in our view. Hence our amendment. I look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State to our questions and, of course, to the response to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u130	Thank you very much. I would now like, as the last speaker, to give the floor to Mr Kuzu. Mr Kuzu spoke on behalf of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u131	Mr. Chairman. You'll have only just joined as Secretary of State for Social Affairs, responsible for the welfare, and the first, the very first, law you have to defend is a crackpot bullying law for the amendment of the Participation Act. The proposal concerns the following. Claims for too much or unduly paid assistance payments and penalties imposed as a result no longer count as debts. That way a single person doesn't get below the maximum power limit. That individual can no longer apply for welfare benefits, and the cabinet thinks that this is fair. And why am I talking about a few? Because the cabinet itself says it's a few dozen cases a year. So this bill doesn't have to be passed for the benefit of society. However, the impact of this legislative proposal can be very large in an individual case. First of all, I ask the Secretary of State if he is aware of this. The question is whether this bill is proportionate. The government does not excel in proportionate action. Look at the childcare allowance, where many thousands of citizens have been crushed by the government. First, the question is therefore justified as to whether the distinction between different types of debt is justified. After all, a recovery debt, which the cabinet has somewhat tendentiously referred to as a 'fraud claim', is a real debt. Whoever's got that kind of debt is gonna have to pay it off sometime. It is a question of whether, through an accounting trick, pretending to be such a beneficial owner is actually true. Can the Secretary of State therefore explain why the assessments of benefits applications are now based on a piece of creative accounting? Mr. Chairman. Other forms of so-called fraud affecting the public authorities and thus society, such as bankruptcy fraud, fall outside the scope of this law. A person like that can roll in the welfare. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: why one form of fraud is, and the other form of fraud is not? Does this look like a double-size thing to you? Mr. Chairman. Let's be honest about this. This bill is actually just a wash nose. The Secretary of State himself knows that. For someone can, in a manner of speaking, withdraw a credit and pay off the so-called 'fraud claim'. A new entitlement to the assistance will then be created. I would also like to mention the example of someone who has a house and who puts that house in the name of a family member. Then there is still a claim to the assistance. Does the Secretary of State share the view that this is a very easy way to circumvent this bill and that it is a wash? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the core. Let me make it clear that unjustly received money is wrongly received money. Moreover, it is not right for the cabinet, on the one hand, to throw fraud and, on the other hand, to refuse to transmit information in one heap under the heading of 'fraud'. That's what the Council of State is doing. But as so often, this cabinet does not care about the Council of State. That is why DENK warmly endorses Mr Raemakers' amendment. Everyone makes a mistake sometimes in complying with the rules. We saw an example of it yesterday. But wrongly received money remains unjustly received money. And so it has to be repaid if it can. But it is not always possible! The property it is about is sometimes impossible to make money in practice. Sometimes it's a home or a piece of land that's inherited, real estate that's attached great emotional value to it, whatever the cabinet may say. Or it's real estate that's practically unsellable. Sometimes these are claims on a legacy that still has to be settled and the settlement of which will take years to come. In some countries the settlement of an inheritance may take years. Or there's been an anti-speculation clause on real estate for years, which makes quick sales impossible. And there are many other reasons to think of where there is theoretical and on paper possession, but that property is not just to be paid for in practice. I ask the Secretary of State whether this has been taken into account in the present bill. Mr. Chairman. This is similar to the pension claims. In the Netherlands, the average employee in 40 years builds a pension claim worth €200,000. But this money is not property, and for most people it is only in the distant future that this money will be paid out. In short, you do have the money, but you can't reach it. In short, there is a large grey area between what is property and what is not property. However, this proposal gives the municipality and the Social Insurance Bank too much room to take away benefits from people with quasi-possession, or to force them to pay for their quasi-possession at high costs and large losses. And every economist knows that transactions that take place under duress or pressure of time lead to huge losses. Mr. Chairman. On page 16 of the explanatory memorandum, it says that the revenue for the government and society in 2021 is €500,000. If I sell all the disadvantages against this low yield, I have to come to the conclusion that this bill is disproportionate. Society as a whole is not going to notice anything positive about this, but the affected individuals are being financially ruined. We shall have another debate on this in three or four years' time. There is no balance between the means and the purpose. The childcare allowance has shown that the government can crush individual citizens and destroy lives. The reassurances of the State Secretary that the municipalities and the Social Insurance Bank can apply customization in quasi-property do not necessarily create confidence. Those organizations have a bad track record. The government, which in some cases can be extremely aggressive, is now getting a stick in order to beat vulnerable citizens hard. All in all, Mr. Chairman. I had given it to this Secretary of State that he could show his social face during his first plenary appearance on the subject of a legislative proposal, as he argued during oral Question Time last Tuesday. Unfortunately, it was wishful thinking. I'd hoped better. But at least I wish him good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u132	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I propose that the sitting be suspended until 7:45 p.m., after which the Secretary of State will have the opportunity to reply in the first time. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will be able to share an opinion on the amendments tabled. I shall suspend the sitting until 7:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u133	The next item is the amendment of the Participation Act to exclude fraud claims in the asset test. We have had the first term on the side of the Chamber, so I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for the first-term reply in a moment. Let me take a look at the Members. I understand the Secretary of State will answer in blocks. So we do the questions at the end of a block. Interrupts go in two. I would really like to try to be ready towards 8.30 p.m., because there will be a subsequent amendment of a new law. To make the meeting go on twice until deep into the night may be too much of a good thing. If the Secretary of State wants to indicate which cubes he wants to handle, we can send them. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 8:30 sounds ambitious, but I'm gonna do my best. I just wanted to make a few general comments in advance on the bill. After that, I would like to comment on everything related to the concept of fraud and its culpability. Then there is a block about the consequences: what happens to the minimum of existence and the reasonable availability of your ability? Then there are a number of questions about property research abroad. After that, I'll have the cup left. Just like that? Mr President, I would like to make the following point in advance. It was a nice debate to listen to from this side. I have to say that perhaps 70% of the debate was on matters that are not regulated or changed in this law. Maybe it's okay if I just make it clear what we're doing and what we're not doing with this amendment of the law, and what we're trying to do. I'm actually hearing the whole Chamber say that we all think you shouldn't get welfare if you have power beyond the limits we've set for that. Of course, you can have a discussion about the level of that, but everyone agrees with that principle. You must first use that ability to provide for your existence. That also goes well in many cases. There's only one gap in the Participation Act that doesn't go well. That's the situation in which we've determined with someone that the power hasn't been given up. It doesn't matter if that happened consciously or unconsciously or if it was forgotten or a bit in between. That wealth is there and that has not been reported to the municipality, but you have received a welfare allowance. We don't want any of that. If that's established, we'll say, "You have to repay that assistance." We all think that's reasonable. And in case of culpability, you get a fine on top of that. Then the strange situation arises that you have a debt on paper and thus pass the power test. What happens if that's how you got through the power test? Then you get a welfare allowance and we b can't get that money anymore. That's the weird thing, and that's also the misunderstanding that I'm really hoping to take away tonight. For example, I also heard Mr Raemakers say: but you have to deal with all this. Yes, that's absolutely true, but it can't be, because at the moment we don't have the title to get someone's ability when the person passed that power test in this way. So we can no longer say: you must eat that house. I do not think that this is fair to people who have complied with the rules, nor to people who pay the taxes we all pay. What doesn't the bill do? I'm gonna go into that a little more deeply later. It is not an extra punishment and it is not a means of bringing people into a situation where they have no means of existence. We always make sure someone can just buy food at the grocery store. I think Mr Peters mentioned that. That's what I stand for. That as an introduction, but actually this is also at the heart of the bill. Mr Jasper van Dijk said this very clearly in his speech. He also said: I fully agree. And it is. And all the commas that came up after that have relevant discussions, but this bill doesn't do anything about that. There's nothing that works against that or reinforces it. It's just sec like I just told you. That's what we do. Mr. Chairman. Much has been said about the concept of fraud. What's fraud? I can understand why this discussion is taking place. I also think that thinking about it through all kinds of things we've seen in society, but also in the Chamber, which is changing. I, too, can see that it can make a big difference if you accidentally filled out a form wrong. That could happen to this government, too. Even we get government forms where you have to check three times to see if it's true the way you fill it in and if you get what it says. So, yeah, we're gonna have to do something about that. Actions are also aimed at this. But again, that has nothing to do with this bill. Whether you have property and have forgotten to give it up or have deliberately withheld it, everyone will agree that that property must be used up before you receive welfare benefits. That's what we're doing. It also seems to me to be a good idea, as a Chamber, to talk about this concept of fraud in more detail. I would even like to offer to send a letter about it as a kick-off, and to take some experiences of municipalities and of enforcers along with it, because I understand this discussion very well. Wherever that discussion lands, I still think we should do this. And it doesn't affect this bill either. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go ask some more specific questions. Mr Van Dijk asked what possibilities there are to deviate and not to impose a fine in the event of fraud. Again, that's outside this bill, but I'll deal with it. It is, and will remain, important to look at it with a human dimension. There is also sufficient room for this in municipalities and other benefit bodies. The level of the fine must always be aligned with the degree of culpability, the seriousness of the offence and also the financial circumstances of the citizen. The less blameworthy something is, the lower the fine. It is even possible that no fine is imposed at all, because it is clear that you really could not do anything about it. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. The bill doesn't change anything about that. Then there was a question from Mr Raemakers and several speakers about the concept of fraud and the Council of State. The reason for using that concept in this law is that this is the usual concept in all the other previous laws we use. That's some kind of legal health. In any case, you should not read out that I would call anyone who makes a mistake a fraud. It just isn't. I think there was one unfortunate sentence in it, and I blame myself for that, because I think that view is turning. It was stated in the explanatory statement that this is in line with the normal language used in society and in the debate. That is precisely changing, and I do not think that is entirely wrong. Then he also asks how many cases there are of intent, gross negligence and negligence. These are figures which I do not have specifically at the moment, also because we do not always get everything from municipalities. It's important to monitor, but you don't want to drive them crazy with all kinds of forms and surveys from The Hague. It seems to me that if I am going to write that letter about the concept of fraud, I should like to see what we can gather about it and give as much insight as possible; as far as possible, because not all the figures are always readily available. Mr Van Dijk asked how you are dealing with people who are not deliberately committing fraud. That's the category "fault" or "I didn't understand." That is actually the same answer I gave to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u135	We are talking about two gentlemen Van Dijk. That's what makes it a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u136	Then you should mention a first name and a last name. The same answer I gave to your neighbor, Mr Gijs van Dijk. There are truffles in the way of fines; from high to zero and then you get a warning. By the way, I would like to say that we are working very intensively with the municipalities to prevent this happening. Then it is about making the forms as understandable as possible and actively accompanying people in filling out them. To encourage people to give the right answers, even insights from behavioural psychology are used. There is no doubt still a world to be won, and not only in this domain. It's really working on it. I therefore say to Mr Jasper van Dijk what I just said to Mr Raemakers: the reason why we have maintained the concept of fraud and have not adapted it in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State is that it is therefore congruent with all other legislation. Again, I found that one sentence unfortunately chosen. I am open to a debate on that understanding. I think I've heard almost everyone in this room say that. So, if we want that to land in legislation or something like that, we need to talk about the fraud law that governs all social security provisions. So I couldn't even settle that in this law. Mr. Chairman. Mr Renkema asks: are we not engaged in some kind of witch hunt, calling everyone a fraud, and does that not undermine public confidence? I don't think so. I think we should attach great importance to the fact that social security is used by people who are really entitled to it. If a mistake is made, people need to correct it in a proper way, but we also need to be tough on people who deliberately abuse it. A few examples have come along. Of course, that's what you see more when the government has money to forgive somewhere. It's not just social security. Then there are also very smart people who use their brains for evil and purposefully empty the government's wallet. Mr. Chairman. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked whether we are taking into account any culpability. So that's in the system of fines; that's the same answer. Shouldn't we assume trust anymore, he asked. Yes, you can assume some confidence, but I still think that if we give money from all of us to people who need it, we can see if it really ends up with the people who deserve it. This is certainly true of other people in the welfare system, who are just following the rules. And most people just do it neatly. I'm just gonna say that here. Only, there's a few that make mistakes, and there's a small group that's just deliberately screwing around. And we're just gonna have to go hard on that one. In this context, Mr De Jong asks whether we should not simply refuse assistance for the rest of our lives. I understand that question in the PVV line on multiple fronts. I think we really do have a good system of punishment right now. This is actually saying that you're going to spend a life sentence for about every crime that's committed in this domain, and I just don't think that's proportionate. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Jong also asks: how can we stop this fraud? Well, I think this is an important step. It is also important to say this in the direction of the Labour Party, that 92% of the people in the assistance simply comply with the rules. That's a good thing to say. Mr De Jong also asks why we have to take account of the financial situation of the fraudster. This is, of course, an important principle in our rule of law and social security. I also think it is as Mr Peters said it is. I do stand for everyone to be able to shop at the supermarket at the end of the day, if only because they are often people who, for example, still have a family. And those kids can't help but think that their dad went wrong. Mr Kuzu says that there are different types of debt and that debts can also come from something quite different. He's asking why I'm all focused on the fraud in social security now. This is mainly due to the fact that this is a closed system, with laws that are interrelated. Your question was: but if someone cheated on you with bankruptcy fraud or something like that, shouldn't we do something about it? I understand that question. We are currently looking at whether we should include this, but that is a little more complex. That is a very different area from social security. But I understand your question. I don't think it's illogical to see if we should do something about that. But I can't figure that out tonight, I say. Mr. Chairman. To my knowledge, those were the questions that were asked in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Gijs van Dijk had already indicated that he wanted to ask a question. I also saw Mr Raemakers and Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u138	The Secretary of State says this bill provides for something we can't do right now. But at the moment when there is a claim, can the municipality cut a benefit already? The municipality now also has a stick in a possible debt or in a property that has been withheld? Well, then the municipality can intervene, can't it? That does not require this bill, because this makes it very hard. This is because it immediately withdraws the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u139	But then I'm gonna make it real sharp. The problem is this. What if someone hid possession? Whether that is intentional or not, it doesn't really matter for what we think of it, of course, but actually that's the situation. If we find out, you'll get a claim. We want that assistance back, because it has been wrongly paid out. The problem is that because of the way the law is put together, a sum is made, saying: 'Hey, there is perhaps a negative capacity here at once. So you're going through the limit of the power test. After that, the municipality no longer has a title to get to that house. So you might get a little discount on your welfare allowance to pay back that whole fraud, but that house you've got somewhere, you just have. And that's the dishonesty, I think, in these situations. It's really my contention that if you don't adopt this law, you're gonna let it exist that there are people on welfare who can just freely have a house of maybe $50,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u140	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u141	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The situation is as follows. I've got $20,000 somewhere. The city's gonna find out. I have a family, too. The municipality says: we will stop your assistance, because first we want you to recover the €20,000 you have standing there in Spain and then you will have to pay with it. But then I find myself in a situation where I have no income, with my family. That's gonna take a couple of months, because I didn't sell that house in one go. But then the Secretary of State says: no, we still have the opportunity to buy food. But what if I don't get benefits anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u142	That's actually in the next block, so I'll just say it a little bit more. Look, of course, it is perfectly logical for Mr Gijs van Dijk to ask that question. You may have something on you somewhere, but you can't shop from a house, not right away at least. We can see that, of course. So the law requires you to reasonably make every effort to make money from that property. That is simply the existing situation, so it is no different from this bill. As long as you don't, you'll at least get temporary assistance in the form of a loan. If you manage to sell that house after all, we'll settle it with the proceeds of the house. But in the meantime, if the house isn't sold yet, you're just gonna get welfare benefits, because otherwise you'd actually get a very unreasonable situation. Of course, you have to show that you're doing a little bit of work for it. That's up to you, too. But that safety net is logically provided for, also in the current Participation Act, so without this change. If it turns out that at some point I don't know the term, so you'll have to forgive me if it's something unsellable, we'll say, okay, you're just getting welfare. But you'll have to prove it. We're not gonna tell anyone that he can shop because he has a house in Spain, when he hasn't sold it yet. I wouldn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u143	I have a question about culpability and fraud. The Secretary of State states about the fine: the less reproachable, the lower the fine; this bill does not change that. That's right. That fine doesn't change this bill. But this bill creates a new punishment, which is to withhold assistance from someone. Then it is very relevant to know how culpable it is for those people who will no longer receive assistance in the future. The Secretary of State doesn't have those numbers. I've just consulted the CBS. First quarter 2020: 2,390 cases of fraud based on the Welfare Act. Showable design: 30. Gross debt: 60. Normal culpability: 1,850. Reduced culpability: 420. When I add up "showable intent" and "great debt," I get to 90 out of 2,390 cases. That's 3.8%. This means that in more than 96% of cases people have made a mistake or did not know something. In any case, there can be no evidence of intent or gross negligence on their part. The Secretary of State has not been able to consult these figures in this debate. Does he think it's proportionate to take away all those people's welfare, even if they're not to blame?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u144	That's not what we do. This has just appeared several times in the House's interrupting debates with Mr Raemakers. Maybe those numbers are in those folders here, I don't know. I'm gonna have to get used to a system like that. I'm doing the most out of my mind, so come on, don't be silly. But it doesn't matter. This bill is about someone owning property. It doesn't matter whether you gave up on purpose or not, because you just have something you can live on. If you want to do what Mr. Raemakers is advocating here, say you forgot to give up your house, but that's okay, you can keep the house. That's what happens. So it has nothing to do with culpability. It has to do with means: do you have resources at your disposal to live on? If the answer to that is "yes," then you're not getting any assistance. That's how we do it to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u145	We have indeed had this debate as a Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u146	But it is not a debate; it is a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u147	But now I was talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u148	Yes. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u149	We have also had this debate as a Chamber. As a group of D66 we have indicated that we are taking a different line from, for example, the VVD and the CDA. That is the debate in the Chamber. But my question is about culpability. I consider culpability relevant, also in this case, because there is a recovery, because there is a fine and thirdly because someone is deprived of the assistance. The Secretary of State says that, in such cases, assistance can always be provided for a few months in the direction of a colleague. That can be decided by a municipality. But if I take the bill of law for a sec, when I see what is being changed to Article 34 'not taken into account as debt the debt that has been incurred by' and the whole zipper 'and when I read all the articles, I see that the exception is not included in the law. It may be elsewhere in the Participation Act or in the explanatory memorandum. I ask the Secretary of State: do you understand that as a Member of Parliament, I am concerned about the 96% of the people? They are not to blame, but they are affected by a law that I do not know how municipalities will implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u150	Once again, it will be up to us, but Mr Raemakers really has the wrong idea of what this law does and does not do. The whole point that you should reasonably have that ability is long in the Participation Act. That applies when someone, you or I, is going to apply for assistance. Then they check it out with me and I say, if I'm honest and just give it up: yes, I have something, but I can't get it done within a month. It is already so arranged that you will be able to receive assistance and that will continue to be the case after this. In the cases where this bill is concerned, you can, just because of a technical gap in this law, which is never meant to be, end up in a crazy situation. It was never the intention of the law that this situation should arise. The crazy thing is that here, whether you haven't given up on purpose or not, the technique and operation of this law can put you in the situation that you get both assistance and keep the house. We just shouldn't want that. That has nothing to do with culpability or forgetting. Even if you have the situation that someone forgets to give up a million dollars, you don't think it's reasonable that we give people welfare benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u151	Mr President, I would like to make a general announcement. In my view, page 3 of the explanatory memorandum states exactly who the law applies to and does not apply to. That is indeed not the law itself, but it is a very important part of this whole debate. Maybe it's good for D66 to check out page 3, because maybe there's a part of the answer there already. Then we'll save a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u152	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u153	My question is whether the Secretary of State agrees with me that repaying something that isn't yours isn't a punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u154	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u155	I ask this because it is often said: the moment you receive assistance when you are not actually entitled to it, part of the penalty is to repay that amount. Well, we agree that's not punishment, because that has to happen anyway. A fine may then be imposed. We therefore believe that this should be done with legal interest. So I'm also looking for a punishment that goes with it. The Secretary of State has just said: I find lifelong exclusion of assistance disproportionate. What does the Secretary of State think, then, is proportional when it comes to a real imposition of penalties on someone who has deliberately shown that he is risking social security, that he at least did not deal with it responsibly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u156	We've already taken care of that. I agree with you that paying back the sec of something you have wrongly received is not a punishment, whether you have wrongly received too much tax or wrongly paid a benefit. That's just fair business. It's already in our system that you can be punished for that. And that then depends on the amount of the amount, on the culpability and so on. These are, in principle, rising amounts of administrative fines. Let me remind you of the fact that, in the case of an amount above €50,000, there is even a chance that the public prosecutor will be called on to do so. So you're under criminal law. I think we have a very fair system. This takes account, on the one hand, of the fact that people can fill out a form for a fictional example with a wrong colour pen. But on the other hand, if you're really screwing around, then you're not even under administrative law or social security at all, then the Public Prosecutor's Office is just coming after you. And that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u157	Thank you. I was the first to see Mr Renkema at the interrupting microphone. But he's still waiting. Then I'm going to see Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u158	The Secretary of State has just rightly indicated that the whole social security system is interwoven. We have different laws, we have different rules and they form a whole. So this amendment to the Participation Act cannot be seen separately from other parts of the Participation Act, the Fraud Act and so on. In the debate on the interruption between Mr Gijs van Dijk and the Secretary of State, it was at one point about people who had assets, who were still applying for assistance and then receiving assistance in the form of a loan. With that, we push the group we are talking about, even further into the debt at the time of the passing of this change of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u159	No, what Mr Kuzu is describing is simply the existing situation. It's based on the fact that someone has power and that that person can live on it. It's possible you can't use it the same way. Let me give you another example. I have to report for welfare, and I have a house abroad, but I share it with my sister I'm fighting with. I'm just saying. And he refuses to sign the papers or something. Then it makes sense that as a government you say: okay, we understand that you can't have that right and that you have no income now. So we're gonna help you with that for a while. But once you've sold that house and you might have caught 2 tons for it, it makes sense that we say: wait a minute, now you have 2 tons on your account; can we just settle that again? I think that is completely fair. The crazy thing is that because of the gap in the law, we can't do that if it's been established that people haven't given up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u160	In conclusion, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u161	Indeed, in the example of the Secretary of State, that is true. In the State Secretary's example, it's fair. But the Secretary of State should not pretend that the entire system of the Participation Act is always fair. We have thousands of objections, we have thousands of appeals. We have thousands of cases in this country every year relating to assistance. There is just a group of people who are affected by the way in which we have set up the system of the Participation Act and the property survey. The moment you don't give up blamefully that you don't have any assets, that you don't have any assets, you're gonna get punished for that. That is certainly part of the problem we are discussing here today. My question would then be: is the Secretary of State at least prepared to really look at all those cases which are causing serious problems and to assure the Chamber that the amendment of this law is not going to affect those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u162	I can assure you of that. What I cannot assure is the other broad problem. It's still human work. Mistakes will be made. There will also be people who consciously continue to sue because they can want the best of it. We'll never get rid of that completely. Where that can be better and sharper: fine. I would also like to say on this side that there is undoubtedly some criticism of municipalities, but that in general there are a lot of people working with a heart, including social services. They're really doing that job to the best of their consciences. I do not want to have the suggestion that there are all people working there who have a bat under their desk and have that as their only answer. But this bill, strictly speaking, has nothing to do with it, because we say that if you have any property, you have to use it. If you don't have access to it, we'll have a social security allowance for you. If you're going to sell it because those examples have also come along................................................................................................................................................... Suppose it was worth €40,000 and your total claim was €100,000, then you have a negative net worth of minus €60,000 in one go. At that point, you're gonna get through the power test and you're just gonna get backup. But I think we are right to say that this property has been made money. And I can't do that now in some cases, and I find that weird and unfair. That's what we're dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u163	Thank you. I suggest the Secretary of State goes to the next block. We'll have a second term later. We need to speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u164	Mr President, on a point of order. I understand you want to speed things up. I also understand that there is another item on the agenda after this. We're talking about legal treatment here. I would therefore like to put another question to the Secretary of State, not on the same subject but on another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u165	You're absolutely right. It is a legal procedure, so I cannot completely prohibit it, but I really want to ask.... and I think the debate can gain momentum............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'm giving you an opportunity to ask another question in this block. I also saw Mr Gijs van Dijk. Let us work together to ensure that colleagues can start a little on time tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u166	I'm gonna do the best I can. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make an agreement with the executives, namely the municipalities and the Social Insurance Bank, that, when there is a possible offender of the law, there will first be a warning call with the beneficiary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u167	I'm not just willing to do that, because sometimes it's so obvious that someone's screwing around is that you have to act right. But let me see exactly what I can do and then I'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u168	I would like to have an answer to that in the second term, all the more...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u169	Yes, but the Secretary of State has promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u170	Oh, yeah. All the more so, and I'd like to give it to the Secretary of State because a Corona App Act was discussed yesterday and the VVD filed a motion on Apple and Google, large multinationals, to allow the regulators to talk to the offenders...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u171	You've had the promise, Mr. Kuzu. Let's take a second look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u172	However, I would like to pass on my point to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, if you will allow me to finish my speech on the question of multinationals. I hope that this Secretary of State is prepared to make the same deal with citizens as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u173	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u174	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. This is relevant to our consideration. It's about the loan. I'm talking about that hypothetical house in Spain for $20,000. That might take five years, and I'll have to borrow five years from the city. Then I only get $20,000 back and then I can come up with a debt based on the fact that it takes longer because I had an argument with a family member about the sale and because the final sales value is much less than the municipality and I had estimated. In the meantime, I borrowed from the municipality and the municipality says: yes, you must repay it. Then you'll find yourself in a crazy situation where I'm gonna end up cashing my assets, but in the meantime, I could have claimed welfare if that family member hadn't been such a pain in the ass, if you know what I mean. Of course, there's a gap there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u175	Let me ask for precise deadlines in a moment. This has, of course, been considered, because this is a situation that also arises without this whole legislative proposal. Even now, there's a power test. You'll give up that house, and then there'll be a situation like that. This will be provided for, but let me find out very precisely for you, because I understand your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u176	Thank you. Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u177	Next block. Maybe we've already switched things with each other in the interruptions. Forgive me for a moment. Mr Renkema asked what it means for the security of life. I have just said a few times that if you do not have that power, we will ensure that there is security of existence. So it doesn't mean anything in the end. Mr Peters asked about how many cases we are talking about, specifically with regard to this law. That's about 35 a year right now. However, it can be noted that the current system for municipalities and the SVB does not make it attractive at all to do these investigations, because you already know the outcome. They are not simple investigations to do, especially when it comes to possession abroad. Mr Peters asked about the bill on how to start a clean slate after a fraud regulation. Once someone has used those possessions, he'll drop through the power line. He's just entitled to welfare. If the claims are repaid with that, you have a clean slate anyway. I think that's a healthy way to do it. Mr Raemakers asks if it is not an extra penalty. In my opinion, I have tried to explain this in many different variants. I really hope I made it clear to him, because I understand exactly his concerns and questions. In substance, I don't think we disagree, but I think we disagree on how we read the bill. Mr Renkema asked whether everything is easy to make money. I think we talked about that, too. No, of course not. Especially in the case of possessions abroad or in the case of shared possession, this is often a bit more complicated. You can imagine anything. That is why there is a demand for an effort to be made and to show that it is possible, but there is also an eye for if this simply does not work. I will come back to Mr Gijs van Dijk's question about the exact timing. But again, that's something that's already going on. If this were not properly arranged, my assessment would be that we had already discussed this specifically because it would be an issue now. The same applies to the constitutional obligation to avoid poignant cases. That's what we do. People are entitled to welfare if they have no means of subsistence. We are now merely ensuring that existing means of subsistence in the form of wealth must be used first, as we ask everyone to do. Mr President, I think those were the questions in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u178	There is a question from Mr Renkema. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u179	I have a question on the issue of security of existence. If someone is unable to pay for the property immediately, there is no right to assistance at that time. Except for the house abroad, which keeps coming along, I call the stamp collection. This is also mentioned by the cabinet as an example. The Secretary of State says: If this does not work so quickly, we will ensure that someone can experience security of existence. Does this happen through the granting of a loan? 'Cause there's no right to welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u180	I'll come back to those deadlines. This is provided for. It's a loan, but it could just become total assistance. I'm not... what do you call stamp lovers? Philatelist. Let's say the stamp market has completely collapsed. Or there's another reason... I know a lot... like the offices where you trade these things for a year are closed. I'm just gonna mention something. If you just never get rid of it, you get welfare at some point. We're not gonna ask people to do anything that can't be done. However, we ask that you reasonably do your best and show us this as well. But if that antique furniture is incredibly ugly and nobody wants to have it, then of course it just stops at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u181	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u182	I didn't call that stamp collection and the antique furniture for nothing. They're not my examples. These examples have been given by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u183	If I had been there before, I would have had examples that might have been closer to my world of experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u184	Perhaps then for information: both markets, both antiques and stamps, have collapsed completely over the past two decades. So there's no value in that. There's no money in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u185	Then I'm not gonna spare it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u186	Mr Renkema comes to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u187	This is the next point I should like to make. So when it becomes a loan, the debt of the person grows. I do not think it is a question of the right to assistance, regardless of the technique and when it comes to assistance. That debt must also be repaid to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u188	So that's what you're gonna settle as soon as the property's back in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u189	Now ask your question, Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u190	This was my question, for a good understanding, for the complete information. So it's a loan at the time. That means that the debt to the municipality is growing at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u191	That debt can therefore also be converted into a gift, but certainly not before the value of that property is offset by those months of assistance. So let's say you've had three months of welfare for value x, then you're selling something. It'll be settled with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u192	Mr Raemakers has another question on this block. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u193	I hadn't read anything yet that the loan could be exchanged at some point and become a gift. At least that seems to me to be an important statement from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u194	This is from current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u195	Okay, I'm glad that the functioning of this law also fully corresponds to the practice that hopefully will take place. It's about security of existence. The Secretary of State states that people are simply entitled to welfare if they have no means of subsistence. This Secretary of State's reasoning is: people have possession, they have possession of €20,000, so they don't need our help. The Secretary of State also said in his speech tonight somewhere that people then have a debt on paper. However, I think it is right to point out that these debts are not, of course, just on paper. Those recoverys and fines must also be paid back at some point in time. I'm assuming they won't be converted into a gift. The bill is a whole sequence, from point a to point w, of all things that are fictitiously no longer regarded as debt, but are a debt. Is this Secretary of State aware that this is not about numbers on paper, but that people can actually suffer from very large debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u196	If people suffer from very large debts, for example, who have nothing to do with the unjustly obtained assistance, they will be offset by the asset test. You'll get under it soon, because then you'll be right under that $6,000. So the power key is just lead, but it is after you cash in on that property. We believe that it is not appropriate to have possession and to claim assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u197	Rounding up. Try to put the question a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u198	That's crucial. The Secretary of State says that that debt will be removed and that you will, for example, come to a negative capacity. The essence of this bill, however, is that all debts arising from recoveries and fines will not be removed, but will continue to count. They're gonna stay there, too, and they're not gone all of a sudden. Does the Secretary of State recognize that element, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u199	That seems perfectly logical to me. That's normal, isn't it? Now Mr Raemakers is actually making a plea in which he says:'screw all wrongly obtained assistance'. Of course that's gonna last. We just want that situation to be settled with what you have in your possession. That could have different outcomes. It could be 60,000 in debt and 80,000 in possession. You're gonna have 20,000 left, and you're not gonna get any backup, 'cause you're gonna be above the power line. If it's the other way around and you're at minus 20,000, then you're just entitled to welfare, and then you're going to pay off with a limited amount a month, like we do to everyone in debt. So you only get to deal with this bill if the sum of everything exceeds €6,000 or €12,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u200	For this reason, our argument is very briefly that, in addition to all the recovery and fines, a third element is added. It is very nice that the loan can become a gift, but what if a municipality wants to be very strict, or has a very negative budget, and says: we do not? That is why I asked the Secretary of State how he could ensure that this would be done properly in all the municipalities on the basis of his constitutional obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u201	This is how it works now. If you state your ability honestly, then the system you are now describing applies. The problem is that if you haven't indicated it, this system falls overboard because of that mistake in the law. This, too, is nothing new. All the questions are legitimate, but I hope we know exactly what we're talking about. This is just the existing system. The crazy thing is that if you've deliberately or unconsciously withheld the information, none of this is true anymore. That's what this bill is for. You'll end up in the situation where you can keep that house and we can't help it. I think that's unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u202	Obviously. Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u203	Then there were a number of questions about property research abroad. It was mainly Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan who talked about the position of the IBF and private investigation offices. Let me summarize it very briefly. The IBF is a possibility for municipalities. We have also identified this as a partner. The IBF has a lot of expertise and can do things. But nothing stands in the way of churches, if they consider it to be better, and who are we to question the wisdom of the church? To this end, a private research office should be set up. Of course, as for all of us and all of the public institutions, they have to comply with all the laws and regulations in force. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan said: I am getting signals that the IBF is radiating towards municipalities that it is not at all. If she lets me bring it in concretely for a moment, then I will talk to the IBF to get rid of that misunderstanding. In this context, Mr De Jong asked: why don't we just give up all these stupid treaties? The problem is just a little bit that we need treaties to detect asset fraud abroad. A lot of countries do. Some countries even have offices on the ground. The problem is that a number of countries, for very different reasons, which have nothing to do with this bill and are also far outside my competence, do not like us very much at the moment and do not admit to us at all. I am very sorry about that, but that route really has to go through the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I really hope it leads to something, because of course it is extremely frustrating. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We hebben gewoon zaken liggen, maar we kunnen in dat land niks doen.]] At the same time, I think that Mr De Jong also understands that if we operate abroad, we too must stick to those authorities, even if we do not... Well, let me not cause a diplomatic riot. If they look less like us. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr De Jong says: why do we not tell Morocco that we are no longer providing assistance to Moroccans? I think that we are really going against all the principles of our Constitution and law, because we are dealing here with residents, regardless of where they come from or are born, and that I do not want to make any distinction in that respect, including in social security. Those were my answers to the questions in this block. So that felt good to Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u204	End of the block. I give the floor to Mr De Jong for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u205	We can see that investigations are being carried out in Turkey, whether by the IBF or by a private company. I myself am also getting signals that municipalities are getting away from these private companies, either because IBF is being promoted in some way or because it is a first contact point. While research there takes much longer than we often see in private companies, that aside. If there is no cooperation and you have in the meantime cases of assistance fraud committed in Morocco, then it is totally unfair if nothing happens to it. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State if he would like to deal with the Foreign Minister in the very near future and if he would like to inform the Chamber before the end of this year on exactly what is happening. We already received a letter in June following what we discussed a year before, and nothing is happening at all. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to take the lead here, to discuss it with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year what steps are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u206	There's no need for a conversation like that. The Minister for Foreign Affairs knows that this is one of the aspects that we have to deal with in the context of the dispute we have with Morocco. They're working hard on that. If you want to know more about that or want to do more with it, I really refer you to the Foreign Office. They also know that this is a problem, just like a lot of other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u207	In conclusion, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u208	Yes, but I also know that this Secretary of State is about the welfare fraud. That's not the foreign minister's point. So I can look at the Foreign Minister, but I'm not on the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm dealing with Social Services here. The Chamber has already received a letter a few times saying: we are nowhere else. Then I think it is very useful that at some point the Chamber should be given some sort of perspective and that the Chamber should be included, so that these two committees are merged, one way or another, throughout this whole process and that they should be taken into account in what actually happens and where it goes wrong. The point is that it is not in a small subtlety that a note says: we have not yet made any progress. That is what happened the last time we were informed, in June. I merely ask this Secretary of State to ensure that we as a Chamber are sufficiently informed and that we know what has happened and what steps are being taken at the next moment, before the end of the year. What's too much to ask for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u209	I get that. I'm always willing to take everyone along, but this is really in the field of foreign affairs. Let us agree that I will pass on your question to them, in the vein of: can you give more insight into how that has all happened now? The conflict itself is not in the area of social security. There's a much broader conflict. The treaty is basically there, but there's something else going on. And I have to tell you, I already find Social Affairs complicated enough, so I'm gonna leave the world to Stef Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u210	Block other than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u211	Then I have the other category. When will the Act be introduced? That is a fair question from Mr Van Dijk. We would have preferred to have seen that before. I recently sent you a letter saying that we still have some challenges with ICT systems there. "It won't be like this for once," you'd almost say. But everything is aimed at bringing that law into force on 1 January next year, and I am really on top of that, precisely in the context of the whole corona era and so on, even though it is a little outside this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u212	It's the other block, but do you have a question on this particular point? Mr Renkema, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u213	Yes, on this particular point, Mr President. That bill already has a trajectory. The goal is still 1 January. It's September now. When will the Chamber hear if that date of 1 January is not feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u214	I agree with you that when I get that image, I'm gonna kick a door real hard and then I'm gonna send you a note. But let's hope that's not necessary. That is really being worked on and there are also variants being thought of, of: if not everything can be done, at least 80%. I just want this taken care of. Mr. Chairman. In summary, Mr Van Dijk asks: can you not just broaden the power test a little? Can't those amounts go up a bit? This government does not intend to do so. We think these amounts are fair and fair, and there is also a financial component to this. So I can't go along with that. Then Mr Van Dijk had some questions about objections. How long will that take? How often does that come before the judge? What's that even look like? The Ministry doesn't just have those numbers, but I'd like to promise you that I'm going to look for those numbers and send them to you, and I don't know if all those figures are available. Mr Van Dijk also asked how often special assistance is provided following infringement of the obligation to provide information. There is no uniform picture of this either, since special assistance is not automatically recorded. Mr. Raemakers asked why you didn't just take a short look at the assistance. That actually goes all the way back to the first part of the debate, that you should not cut someone who simply has money at his disposal, but simply not give him benefits. If he doesn't have any money at his disposal, you're gonna have to give it to him. I would have answered Mr Kuzu's question about other forms of fraud that fell outside. Then Mr De Jong asked about limitation periods and the case in Rotterdam. As far as the Rotterdam case is concerned, I really think it is up to the city council of Rotterdam to find out how that works. The system is that as a government you have to show once every five years that you are seriously working on a recovery. If not, it will expire. If so, it will be extended for another five years. So if you want that claim to stand, as a government, you also have an obligation to do so, and that is not entirely unreasonable to me. I had that under the heading other than that. Then there are questions about the amendment. I'm gonna do that right now. I think we have discussed exactly what the Raemakers amendment is about in the debate. What he very much wants is for us to get to work on the subject of culpability of errors. I told him that I really want to do that, but I think Mr Raemakers is doing it in the wrong place with the best intention, and he shouldn't want to do that either. Let us have that debate with each other; I am going to facilitate you with a letter, I say. But for the reasons I have mentioned ten times now, I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u215	Then we are talking about the Raemakers c.s. amendment. in piece No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u216	Yes, thank you. I hadn't administered it yet. Mr Peters has also tabled an amendment, which he says actually sees on... Yeah, sorry, I got number five here, but I don't know if my records...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u217	No, that's the amendment to point No. 11. That is an amendment tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u218	There are two amendments in circulation, as I know. So this is the second one, by Mr Peters of the CDA. He himself says that this is actually a little outside of this bill, but it is of course his full right as a Member of Parliament to table this amendment. I am sympathetic to that, because I understand Mr Peters' speech. That really is a difference, because this is about access to the aid. That really is a difference from the Raemakers amendment. I understand that, even in view of this whole debate. If you have gotten into this situation because of a mistake and you are no longer eligible for debt relief after that: I think that is harsh. I think we will have to make an effort, also wider, to give municipalities some more tools to shape those variations in culpability. Because it's often, of course, incredibly complicated. Mr De Jong had an example in the opposite direction and said: someone can of course say 'I did not know' very easily. They'll be in there, too. Everyone with kids knows how things go at home sometimes. But the opinion on the amendment is therefore positive, with the remark that we really need to look at how to put the municipalities in a better position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u219	Amendment No 11: Judgment Room. Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office of the Secretary of State. I would suggest that you proceed directly to the second term of office. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u220	Yeah, does everybody agree we're gonna go straight? Then we'll get right on it. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas some of the people who violate the duty of intelligence do not do so maliciously;]] [[Whereas this also often concerns people suffering from low literacy, ggz problems, slight intellectual limitations or a temporary inability to keep the administration in order;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of changing the concept of fraud in the Participation Act in such a way that people who unintentionally make a mistake or act in good faith are no longer regarded as fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas capital limits for local taxes are very low (about €1,500 for single and €2,000 for cohabitants) and not in line with the Participation Act;]] [[whereas the Nibud advises to maintain a financial buffer;]] [[calls on the government to raise the capital limits for the waiver of local taxes to the level in the Participation Act (now €6,225 for a single person and €12,450 for a couple),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35374-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35374-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u221	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Renkema for his second term. I call Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u222	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have had a nice and classic left-right debate here tonight, but I do not think we are going to agree. In front of us, no one should fall between shore and ship. If someone has wealth but also a debt, and that debt is higher than the wealth, then there is a problem and someone has insufficient income, no matter how that debt arose. To be honest, I find it a little special that the cabinet is now interfering with that principle. That can put people in serious trouble. I told you a few times, there's a big gray area here. People who deliberately cheat, they don't deserve welfare. It has to be paid back, including a fine. But we've already arranged that, so as far as we're concerned, this law doesn't really add much. I don't see the recovery of that gap either. I think we're just creating a new situation here. I would like to point out that I very much appreciate the Secretary of State's offer to talk to the Chamber again about fraud, culpability and the language that goes with it. I didn't start that last one for nothing tonight. I think it would be good to look at how we can ensure that not a small mistake has enormous consequences instantly, with someone listed as a fraud. I look forward to that debate. I am curious when the Chamber will receive that letter and at what time we can receive it. Finally, I welcome the State Secretary's assessment of the amendment tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Bruins. This is a subject that has been on the committee very regularly over the past one and a half to two years, and at that time there was actually very little movement. I'm really happy with that positive judgment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u223	Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan for her second term, once the chair has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be really short. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and, above all, for his clear explanation. This is his first legal treatment. I think it's very well done. The signals that reach me about the IBF and about this "forced shopping" I would like to pass on to the Secretary of State. I would, however, like the Chamber to be kept informed of the discussion which the Secretary of State is having with the IBF, and especially with the municipalities. Especially after the adoption of this bill, I believe that it will also be more interesting for municipalities to carry out this type of investigation, thereby preventing people from making improper use of existing regulations at the expense of the people who really need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u225	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the Labour Party for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a brief question on the objection procedure. He's six weeks old. We were just talking about the valuation of power. If this new law continues, such an assessment will be of interest. That may turn out to be different from what it was intended to do. And I could possibly lose my support on that. After all, my ability may be estimated at €20,000, but it turns out to be €10,000. You can do that after a while. But then I won't have any more objection. That's what the current law says. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether there is anything to be done, because we must, of course, give people the right to object, and perhaps six weeks is too short. Mr President, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas minor errors can lead to high recoveries and fines for people and could have major consequences;]] [[whereas, by definition, public authorities rely on culpability, but this is not always justified;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate in social security the extent to which sanctions, recoveries and consequences for debt relief and debt restructuring are proportionate to the culpability and to make proposals for improvement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35374-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u227	Finally, in line with Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, I must congratulate the Secretary of State. This is a very complex issue and this is his first legislative debate. We may not always agree in this house. That's not surprising either, because the Secretary of State is from the VVD and I'm from the Labour Party. So those differences will be there, but the Secretary of State is above the issue. Compliments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u228	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Peters for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to add my compliments to the Secretary of State. You can sleep well later. I think we all can. We had a nice debate here. I welcome the support for the amendment. And I actually wanted to table a motion together with Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan in order to have a good talk about the concept of fraud. But yes, Jasper van Dijk was ahead. I fully endorse his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u230	Thank you very much. I am happy to give the floor to Mr De Jong for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u231	Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to recover the amount of fraud up to the last cent plus fine and statutory interest, to ensure that the claim will not lapse and to exclude a new possibility of assistance in the event of benefit fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain municipalities in compliance with the requirements and conditions for receiving assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35374-16]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35374-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u232	Thank you. Then I am happy to give Mr Raemakers his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Also on my behalf, of course, compliments to the Secretary of State for his first legal treatment. I think we have had a good and passionate debate with the Chamber and with the Secretary of State. That's the way it's supposed to be. I'd like to try to sum it up. In the assistance, under the Participation Act, D66 always assumes the good in the people; we have a positive human image. We rely on the good and above all we think we should help people. In my view, you can sum up this debate in three questions. The first is: what is the nature of this law? Is it really just computational and a stick with which you can beat the welfare fraudsters? Or is it a punishment, too? We don't agree on that, but we think you can also see it as an extra punishment. The second question is, how hard do you have to punish? You have a recovery, you already have a fine and the third would be to take the benefit. You can see that in the debate the question always comes back: is it meant as punishment? Is it gonna work out as punishment? We think it's a punishment. What we consider to be the greatest objection to this law, and that is what we have included in our amendment, is the third question: if you actually apply such a third sentence, then who should you punish? Our amendment states that this should only be done if you do so, in case of demonstrable intent and gross guilt. We as D66 find the law unacceptable at the moment. If our amendment were to be adopted, it would certainly be much better. Then it becomes more acceptable, but then we still have doubts as to whether there are sufficient safeguards, including in this legislative text, that there is not too much punishment and that there can be no distressing situations. All in all, therefore, we are mainly skeptical about this legal treatment. We see the intentions to tackle the real fraud. Then let me end with a positive point. In any case, it is a good thing that the Secretary of State says that the concept of fraud concerns all political groups from left to right, so let me get to work on it. Whatever comes out of the votes next Tuesday, it is good that this theme remains on the mindset of this Secretary of State. I wish him every success in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u234	Thank you. Finally, I shall give the floor to Mr Kuzu for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u235	Mr President, it is, of course, handsome of the messengers that they do this cleaning every moment of the day...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u236	And at this rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u237	Sure. That can be said at some point. Compliments to the Secretary of State for his first legal treatment. Thank you for at least getting to grips with the concept of fraud, which concerns the moods from the left to the right. I hope that in the short term that the Rutte III cabinet remains, this Secretary of State can really get on with it. 'Cause I'm worried about the implementation practice. Perhaps in a few years' time we will see that we have dealt with a legislative proposal that has received the approval of a majority in the Chamber, which is what it looks like, but that a number of people have helped to destroy it. Of course, we have to get ahead of that. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about it during the interrupting debate: I would also like, in line with the motion tabled yesterday by VVD and CDA, on the Corona app and companies that do not comply with the anti-abuse provisions, to have a warning debate first. In large companies, in multinationals such as Apple and Google, VVD and CDA want to talk first, a warning conversation, with these companies. I hope that this can also be done for people entitled to benefits. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legislative proposal introduces a new ground in order to be able to refuse a welfare allowance or AIO benefit;]] [[Whereas uniform, reasonable and appropriate enforcement is important for legal certainty and public acceptance;]] [[calls on the government to reach agreements with the enforcers, namely the municipalities and the SVB, on the basis that a possible offender of the Participation Act first receives a warning call, unless there is malpractice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35374-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u238	Mr. Chairman. I will, of course, take a very close look at the voting behaviour of colleagues from the VVD and the CDA next Tuesday at the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u239	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for up to seven minutes, so please keep an eye on the bell. As soon as the Secretary of State is ready with the preparations, we will resume. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u240	We have arrived at the second term of the government. I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for the answer to the questions put. There are still a few outstanding questions and we would like to hear the verdict on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u241	I'm just taking advantage of the microphone, hoping my officials will listen in, because I left my phone there. I hope that gets through. I'll pass the motions first and then I'll have a few more questions I'll answer in this period. The first motion... That's too bad he's not here, because it's a historic moment. My first motion for a judgment is from the SP. I'll ruin the cliff hanger right away: it gets from my judgment Chamber. I take this into account in the letter I promised to facilitate the discussion, without prejudging the outcome. Maybe we're different about that, too, but we're going to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u242	The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 13 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u243	The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 14 on forgiveness of local taxes, if only because that is the portfolio of the Minister of the Interior, but also because we see the risk of increasing the poverty trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u244	The motion in part No. 14: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u245	Then the motion to part No. 15 by Mr Gijs van Dijk on research into the extent of sanctions and so on. There's my phone, so this system works. As far as I am concerned, that judgment will be given to the Chamber, if I may treat it the same way as that of your namesake, and this aspect may also be included in the letter I have promised your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u246	The motion in part No. 15: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u247	Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mr De Jong, who summarizes various elements of his contribution in a motion. I must advise against this with reference to the debate. For example, I have indicated that this government does not believe that we should exclude people from assistance until the end of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u248	The motion in part No. 16: Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u249	The motion in part No. Mr De Jong asked the government to oblige municipalities to maintain. That is all their legal task and they do so, and they must, of course, have room for prioritisation. So this is an unnecessary motion, which I must therefore advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u250	The motion in part No. 17: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u251	Mr. Chairman. We have the motion by Mr Kuzu in respect of item No. 18. He asks to have a conversation with everyone before you see anything. Look, something that's not allowed is always an individual fact and then an assessment takes place. It's not possible to call everyone in advance, because sometimes you don't know what's happening. It is true that in 2017 when assessing whether something went wrong, the possibilities have been extended to take that off with a warning, but that is after the fact has been established. I am in favour of this in part, but I must therefore advise against the motion that has been tabled here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u252	The motion in part No. 18: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u253	Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u254	That was the verdict on the motions. Before you go any further, I see a question from Mr De Jong, who is probably about the motions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u255	In the motion in part No. 17 I ask for the municipalities to be obliged to maintain the requirements of the assistance. The Secretary of State says it's unnecessary. I'm surprised. If you don't agree with it, you can also advise against it. You better judge Chamber, but you're not gonna do that. I would like to ask a question on this because there are municipalities that do not maintain the language requirement, for example. That has nothing to do with prioritization. They don't maintain it, even though they should. In previous debates, with the previous Secretary of State, it was said that this is the policy area of the municipalities. My question is to oblige the municipalities to maintain what they have to maintain. That's something other than prioritization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u256	Then comes the same answer as my predecessor always gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u257	Mr President, I do not agree with this, with all due respect. The Secretary of State says it's an unnecessary motion. That happens the moment you ask something that's already the case. I hope that the Secretary of State wishes to point out that what I have said does not go that way in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u258	Fair enough. Mr De Jong referred to this motion as something other than what I read. This does not automatically mean that I agree with it, but then it is formally right to discourage it. He's right about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u259	Then there is Mr Kuzu, also on his motion. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u260	The Secretary of State is most likely aware that each municipality connects welfare recipients to a customer manager, or whatever it may be called in that municipality. That is a clear number of people. What is so difficult about the practice that a customer manager like this is what we call it in Rotterdam at least? That's not so much trouble when it comes to that, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u261	I don't rule out this happening all the time. Nowadays we are doing more and more to look at the whole intake and prevent one from unconsciously... But I think you're asking that in all cases people should have a conversation first. That's just impossible. So I'm sticking to my judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u263	Mr President, it's a bit of a mess in my administration, but I'm going to try. The Labour Party asked about the objection period. That's part of the General Administrative Law Act. We have no indication that this time limit is causing problems at the moment. If that is the case, then the law already offers a possibility of postponement. So if it is a problem, then Mr Gijs van Dijk's problem is already solved. I would like to come back to the question of how it is going in the period of having assistance as a loan and property. The settlement always takes place in such a way that the part of the loan can never exceed the value of the asset. You mentioned a situation: that loan could make the debt worth more than the assets on the other side. That can't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u264	A very brief question from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u265	Thank you, Mr President, for that opportunity. I also had a question about the objection procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u266	The Secretary of State just answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u267	I just answered it, but then you stood with Mr Servaes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u268	Then I was talking to Mr Nijboer, but that's the fault of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u269	Nijboer, sorry. A brief summary: your objection is already foreseen because the law already offers a possibility to postpone. We have no signs that this will lead to enormous problems in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u270	You will continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u271	Those were the money loans. Mrs Nijkerken asked: go to that conversation with the IBF and municipalities, keep me informed about the progress and, above all, about what comes out of it. I'd be happy to tell her. When the time is right, I will inform her about it. I imagine the Chamber is going to ask me when the letter I have promised will come. Let me just say that it is a balance between how big you make it and the desire to have it here in good time so that we can discuss it seriously. So that's gonna be a search. I'm telling you the truth. Also in the Ministry people have been working hard for months, so this is what we're going to do. My aim would be to send SZW to this Chamber before the budget debate. That would mean that perhaps not everything you have asked for can also be processed in investigations. I believe that February 12th the election recess is already beginning. If you want it to be complete, I fear it will be a very nice letter, but at least we will not be able to discuss it in this composition. And I had such a great time with this club tonight that I'm willing to do it with these people. That's it for me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u272	Thank you. We assume that the Members of Parliament will be able to count on your initial commitment to send the letter to the Chamber for the budgetary procedure. This brings us to the end of the second term of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-17.u273	The votes on motions, amendments and the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday. I should like to thank the Secretary of State very much for his presence here. Of course, I say the same in the direction of the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate. I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment, so that colleagues can proceed with a further legislative amendment.
