ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u1	We are now going to talk about the Research report on lifelong learning credit. This was the subject of a written consultation with the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. The VSO has been requested by Mrs Tielen of the VVD. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Training and retraining are highly topical. The "Netherlands learns through" window, which was used as one of the support package measures, was quickly overasked and there are very nice initiatives in the business community. I therefore have good hope that this is the time to bring lifelong learning into action for workers and job seekers, for employers, with the support of the government. But the question is: is it also for the trainers? I think there is a huge need for modular training. I would like the Minister to give an insight into and give an up-to-date overview of the possibilities now available, which are now offered by training providers in the field of modular study. Because it's modular to combine your studies with work, family, mortgage and that sort of thing. Can the Minister undertake to do so? In addition, I have a rather long motion, which hopefully speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that continuing training is certainly essential in this corona crisis to bring people to work and to keep them in employment;]] [[Whereas primary and secondary skilled persons of 30 years of age and over cannot make use of a lifelong learning credit for b.B.L. and third learning pathway, whereas this credit is available for higher education;]] [[Whereas it is precisely for this group that ……]] [[Considering that funding opportunities for 30-plusrs are an important consideration when deciding whether or not to opt for continuing training;]] [[Whereas b.B.L. and third learning pathway are of great value for re-training into deficit occupations and sectors;]] [[noting that the STEP scheme cannot provide an alternative for 2022;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that funding opportunities are available for 30-plus students who wish to take part in a B &amp; D course, similar to lifelong learning credit or STAP;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the introduction of the announced digital education review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen and Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30012-130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. From now on, I'm gonna go ahead and make shorter motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u4	That's a wonderful plan. You've done well in time, Mrs. Tielen. We are going to see the next speaker, Mr Van den Berge, member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. You have already heard: co-author of Mr Tielen's motion. Then you will think: VVD and GroenLinks together, which is not common. That has a background. We were together in the Preparation Group Life Long Development of the committees SZW and OCW. So I don't have a motion of my own right now. I would simply like to endorse Mr Tielen's plea, especially since we are constantly hearing the cabinet about the importance of retraining and further training in this corona crisis. We from GroenLinks also wholeheartedly support this. I would like to make an urgent appeal to the Minister to make every effort to find the maximum room in these support packages and elsewhere to make that retraining and further training accessible to practical trained people. Because when reading the report on this written consultation, we are surprised that, while we are spending billions on all aid packages, we cannot find 5 million to make this lifelong learning credit accessible to both B &amp; D students. So I would merely like to make an urgent appeal to the Minister to make maximum efforts to make this kind of means available. And of course for the internships, but the minister of mine knows that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I shall now give the floor to Mrs van den Hul of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Build back better" is the motto of many measures that we now have to take to get out of the corona crisis. I think that is certainly also true of the subject that is now on the agenda: lifelong learning credit and lifelong learning as a subject in any case. If there is one time that underlines the importance of lifelong learning, then it is now. There is also a world to be won there. As I pointed out when we talked about low-literacy, our main concern is that this crisis will increase inequality of opportunity and that people with the greatest distance to supply, to training, to courses, will suffer the most. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that persons in the categories of jobseekers, volunteers, self-employed persons and those with care responsibilities are under-represented in the group of people using lifelong learning credit;]] [[Whereas it is precisely in this current crisis that further training or retraining should be encouraged, for example to facilitate the transition from work to work;]] [[calls on the Government to increase awareness of lifelong learning credit and the STAP scheme for the above categories of persons who are not employed, e.g. by informing ambassadors and the Chamber before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30012-131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. Then I give the floor to Mrs Sazias. She speaks on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that we all think the same about this in this Chamber. 50PLUS also has a motion that goes that way, because we see that lifelong learning credit is mainly spent on higher education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas lifelong learning credit is intended to develop every resident of the Netherlands up to 55 years of age;]] [[noting that lifelong learning credit is in most cases granted for higher education training;]] [[calls on the Government to step up information on lifelong learning credit and to make lifelong learning credit fully accessible to the less educated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30012-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA is concerned, anyone who wants to develop at a later age should ideally not be prevented by a lack of financial resources. Despite the need to extend the target group of lifelong learning credit to students from the b.B. and the third learning pathway, the minister indicates that she does not see any opportunities for this because it costs too much. On the other hand, many resources are being made available to cope with the impact of the corona crisis due to rising unemployment. I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to discuss with her colleague, the Minister of SZW, how we can meet the vulnerable groups such as young people, flex workers andzzp'ers who want to receive MBO training.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. The last speaker from the Chamber at this VSO is Mrs Diertens, a member of the D66 Group. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a so-called stacker, from Mavo to university, I have a warm heart for and a great interest in lifelong learning. I have experienced that myself, and I also think that this should be accessible to everyone, because education and developing yourself offers all kinds of opportunities to do things that you can use in society and in an enterprise. Research and the knowledge tool of the House of Representatives have shown that single mothers feel hindered in the lifelong learning process as it currently exists. Can the Minister bring to the attention of this group the awareness of lifelong learning credit? Especially in times of corona.................................................................................................................................................... There is still a great deal of regulation that is in conflict with each other, which means that these people are not eligible for lifelong learning development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that the motions can be distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u16	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. Three motions have been tabled and a number of questions have been put. First, I'll give the motions an appreciation. First of all, the Tielen/Van den Berge motion on item No. 130 on lifelong learning credit and the digital education overview. First of all, I would like to respond to the request to speed up the digital review of education. You also know that Mr Koolmees and I have repeatedly informed your Chamber that we have been looking and looking at the way to implement that digital educational overview as soon as possible. That's what everyone wants; no misunderstanding about that. But you also know, especially at this time, that we sometimes run into the limits of implementation. For this reason, we have previously informed you that the digital education overview can be completed at the earliest on 1 January 2022. Would we have liked to have seen that before? Yes, of course we would have liked to have seen that before, but we have looked at different possibilities and this is really not going to work. I also think it is my job to make it clear to you as a Chamber that there are sometimes limits to what you can ask of the execution. We all know what's gonna happen if we're not all focused on that. So I'm afraid I can't meet you there. If I see it correctly, it is indeed quite a piece of text, and the motion further asks that 30-plussers who want to take a bbl or a third-course course can also have funding options, similar to lifelong learning credit or the STAP scheme. At that point, the motion is not covered, so you know I have a problem. Moreover, resources are available within the third aid package to regulate the retraining and further training of this target group. I believe that you will have a debate on this with colleagues tomorrow. These are resources for (online) training, 30 million in 2021, practical learning, 63 million in 2021, and cross-sectoral retraining, 37.5 million in 2021. So in my view, at least for the coming years, we will achieve the same goal by a different route. This package is also specifically intended for the low-skilled and middle-aged. You can bring it up again in the debate tomorrow, but that part is provided for. And no, it's not gonna work. So I'm deceiving the motion for that reason. Then there is the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Hul on part No. 131, which is actually asking: make sure that lifelong learning credit and the STAP scheme are well known to the target groups. I would therefore like to take with me the target groups of the provisions contained in the third aid package. Yes, that's what my colleague Koolmees and I do. We are well committed to developing the public lifelong campaign, in order to give the target audience a clear indication of the possibilities. You have these kinds of training opportunities to make sure that you succeed the people they most need. They are indeed sometimes people who are hard to reach. So this motion gets judgment room. That same judgment is given to Mrs Sazias' motion in respect of item No. 132, because it actually means the same thing. She says: lifelong learning not only in higher education, but also for lower and secondary education. You are absolutely right that we should be on this issue, so I will give your motion a ruling Chamber. Mrs Tielen asked if I could give an overview of the modules available in secondary vocational education. You know, because we have already established that I have a special subsidy scheme for both paid and unpaid vocational education to develop these modules. We opened that arrangement a little longer, because we saw that institutions are having trouble because of corona, and they also had a few other issues on their heads to do so at a speed. So we have opened up this arrangement until the end of the year. If you ask me to give you a full overview of everything that is available, I assume you are not asking me to make a catalogue of what is available. I will do my best to indicate for the budget where to find it all, but there is often an offer per HBO institution and there is an offer per private trainer. I find it very complicated when you ask me to list all the existing modules, but if you ask me if I can give a little insight into how much there is now, how that is developing and whether there is progress in it, then that seems to me to be a sensible question. We need to keep our finger on the pulse there, because there is no demand for training if there is no supply. That's kind of the chicken egg story, and I think Mrs Tielen wants to know if the chicken is already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u18	Yes. Indeed, I am not asking the Minister to create a catalogue. That shouldn't be her job. But I do care about both MBO and non-costed as well as HBO practice training. I always like to give an example myself. I have a doctorate in medicine, say, what if I want to work as a district nurse? Then I really don't want to spend three years in complicated part-time training; then I just want to follow a few modules that teach me how to prick infusions, medication policy, wound care, I don't know what. The rest of you can do it. So I really don't need a catalogue, but I do want insight and overview. I hear the Minister say 'for budgetary treatment'. That is very nice, because then we can also see where we may have gaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u19	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Diertens also asked a question which was also addressed in the motions tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Sazias: see if you can reach everyone with that. Named is specifically the category of single mothers. Yes, we really want to reach as many people as possible. That is what we are committed to with a national campaign to ensure that everyone realizes that you can learn through, that that is encouraged and that appropriate supply is also developed for that purpose. Mr. Chairman. I think that has given me the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you. Mrs. Tielen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr President, I miss the debate with Mrs Van Engelshoven, as you can see. Mrs Sazias's motion states that it is "optimum accessible'. You might almost think there's a financial component in that, but still the motion has been given a Chamber judgment. Do I understand that the Minister does not consider that financial component?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u22	No, this is actually... Look, this motion is a support to which Mr Koolmees and I are committed, namely to reach the target group and to make the offer accessible for that purpose. In addition, this is a support and I do not have the impression that this motion calls for additional financial commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u23	Then we came to the end of the VSO report on lifelong learning credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-6.u24	The vote on the motions tabled is next Tuesday.
