ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u1	At present the issue is the treatment of the law 35213, Amendment of the law on disability provision for young disabled persons and some other laws relating to the further activation of the participation of young disabled people and the harmonization of the various regimes of Wajong. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber. I inform Members that in the event of a motion, you will have to read the text yourself and then put the paper on your left side of the table. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to discuss a number of questions concerning this law with the Secretary of State and the other Members of Parliament. I'm gonna bite it off today. It's a very long and important day we're going through today. I can say that from my former work I was very involved with those who dealt with the Wajong. They enjoyed it or sometimes had a problem with it. At least it's a good thing the Wajong Act is here. I understand there are many viewers who follow the debate through the livestream. Many of the people involved in the Wajong Act are very curious about what we are putting forward today. I welcome them, too. I am pleased that we have this opportunity to share this legal treatment as widely as possible. Let me be clear: the debate is now taking place, but the vote is next week. It's known to everyone here, so I say it more for the viewers than for ourselves, but it's important. I saw in many reports that the impression had been given that there was going to be a vote today. The law aims to simplify and improve the existing law. It's the Disability Services Act for young disabled people. This law, Wajong, is a law that deals with a lot of Dutch people, 250,000 completed. That group isn't alone. That group also has a very large group of people around them. Just say 1.5 million people are directly or indirectly involved in the well-being of these young people. One crazy point to begin with is that I would like to change the name of the law, perhaps through the improvement and simplification and the things that are taking place now. We are not talking so much about disabled people these days, but just about people with disabilities. I think that sounds kinder. A proposal is therefore to call it the law of empowerment of young people with disabilities, or WEJB. That is where the intention of the law is more pronounced. This law is about young people who are out of their debt and out of their hands with disabilities. Where others can easily work five days a week, they sometimes have difficulty reaching only three days a week. That law is there for a reason. He's been to the House of Representatives. That's where he was hired. There has been a nice motion from the Political Reformed Party, along with Forum for Democracy, to extend the warranty period to twelve months. Now the law is in this room. When we listen to people who are involved or who are themselves involved with the law, it turns out that a lot of questions live. That is important, because these questions need to be answered. It is also important that you look at the whole group, but of course there are different parts in the group. It's not all the same situations you're dealing with. This is important in the assessment of this law. So there are some concerns about parts of the law. The legal minimum wage, the assistance: what exactly is the security you can count on? That is, of course, what this is about: social security. Is the study scheme starting a little later or what? The chances of reintegration and, of course, the figures: figures that fit the law to determine what a person is entitled to or is not entitled to. The Ministry of Social Security and Employment has the W of work in its name. We are talking about a vulnerable group with sometimes a very uncertain future, in the sense that their illness can be unpredictable. Security is therefore very important to them. But work is also very important for many. The composition of this law is made in a time of high economics. I'm just comparing it to what we have now. The corona crisis has far-reaching consequences for everyone, not only for the Wajangers, but for many more people. It is precisely because we are talking today about the Wajongers that it is important to think carefully with each other whether this law still has the balance sheet, with which we can also participate in the corona crisis. Many of those Wajangers fear their future extra. They are concerned whether they are doing their job and, in better cases, whether they can still easily get a job. Again, this is not only the case with the Wajangers, but with a lot of people in the Netherlands. It certainly plays a role in this vulnerable group today. It was good news to hear in the press that this weekend the Secretary of State was also invited to the crisis council of directors at the Catshuis. I think it is a very good development that this part of the impact of the crisis is also being clearly highlighted. There's a lot coming by today. In this context, as a forum for democracy, we would like to put a number of clarifying questions to the Secretary of State and, where necessary, make an appeal. One of the points is education. There is talk that it will take place at some point. We would be very pleased to be a little bigger or wider in that and to be able to support it with some retroactivity. Other groups have approached us about this. We very much support this idea. I have a bit of a question about the name of the law. I don't think that's the most important thing today. Are you prepared to think about giving a different name to this law, which is more inspiring for those involved? I called that "empowerment." That's such a lovely English word. It is about the power that must be expressed by the law and that must be felt when the interpretation and implementation of the law takes place. The Forum of Democracy then has a rather general question. We have understood, and hope that understanding is correct, that this law is not a austerity and that that aim is not at all part of this law either. With a cut you can of course say that one goes down by minus one and the other with plus two up. It won't be a cutback. It means that the whole group can feel good about this in uncertain times. The question is what is the situation in the State Secretary's experience? If there is no austerity, the question is whether the people concerned, who are now still called Wajangers, can assume that their individual situation will continue to pay full attention and that there will be careful consideration when there are deviations in their situation. Can we look at their individual situation, especially with regard to corona, what effect does a discount have on them and whether something can be done about it? We think that is very important. We're talking about social security. So that word "security" must also be able to be felt. That also raises the question of whether you are prepared to closely monitor the policies that may be used, as I would just mention. And if that policy is used, to properly monitor what undesirable effects are in practice, what signals are coming and what can be solved in particular. We look forward to the full attention being paid to that part of the content of the law and to real monitoring. And not: the law is there, it is executed and everything cracks and everything is going to happen. That's not our intention. I refer once again to social security, especially since we do not think that the corona effects are so fully involved or incorporated into this law. Therefore, the question of whether the Secretary of State is prepared to monitor these effects and whether a review could take place at certain times. There will undoubtedly be those effects. There is still a lot of unpredictability in this, but a number of things are already invented. It's still about extra collateral for the group. What are you thinking, in such a case? A curious question, although I ask it not so much for curiosity: has this new Wajong Act been discussed in the crisis talks last weekend? If so, can you give an indication of the outcome? If not, do you intend to discuss the law in a forthcoming crisis consultation? I have already said that in the abbreviation SZW, the Ministry, is the name 'Employment'. Is there also an extra incentive for the young disabled, the WEJBs in my words, in terms of employment? Has there come any inspiration to see if we can provide more certainty and also more reception in these times? Incentives for employers, incentives for other forms in the market? It does not just have to be about employers; it can also be about individual initiatives by those involved. The responses from those involved also show a great deal in the UN Convention for People with Disabilities, with a disability. Does the Secretary of State have the impression that this treaty has been sufficiently descended within the design of the Wajong as it is now in renewed form? Recently, colleagues from the Secretary of State, Wiebes and Keijzer, who are on the more economic side of the spectrum, have said: we cannot save everyone. This, of course, falls with the population, which therefore becomes insecure. It is not so much a question of saving, but more: how am I going to be in the future? It's not reassuring to hear something like that. Is there any extra reassurance for everyone? "Everyone" is, of course, a very full word; it concerns extensive groups, rounded up 250,000 people involved, as I mentioned earlier. Is there any reassurance to be given to these groups under this law? And that might require some minor adjustments? Mr President, I have stayed well within the time, but that is not so important. It is more about saying what I have to say in this first term. I am very curious about the contribution of my fellow chamber members to this process today. I will continue to follow this debate with great interest and energy today. There is no reason at the moment to table a motion in the first term. This could possibly be done in the second period. However, I would like to say one thing, one thing that I think is sometimes forgotten. I would like to pay tribute to the Secretary of State and her staff for the great efforts they have made to inform us and to answer our questions, to take us into account in what is going on here under this law. There is a great deal of care in that. I would like to thank you for that, also for the willingness that has always been there to be able to ask and to get an explanation of this, if there were any questions on my part. You will therefore see our questions and comments as some points on the i for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u5	I would like to thank Mr Van Pareren very much for his very nice contribution. A number of times he mentions adjustments that are desirable. He expressed concern about the fact that not everyone is making progress and that some of them are getting worse as a result of the legislative proposal before us. Should I conclude from this that the Forum for Democracy does not support the legislative proposal as it is before us and that it wants adjustments before it can count on the Spokesman's agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u6	I would like to reply to Mrs Sent that the Forum for Democracy is speaking today at the beginning of the day. We have tried to raise a number of questions to the Secretary of State during this time. We certainly have those questions. The answer to that will be our image in this. We think that this law could use some adjustments on a number of points, but I think it is too much to say at the beginning of the day: it is not him or it is him. It is precisely today's debate that will explain this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u7	We have no right to amend the First Chamber. It's take it or leave it. I therefore conclude from Mr Van Pareren's words that the concerns are great and that the legislative proposal before us needs to be amended, as he himself says, in order to be able to count on support. I have another supplementary question. This concerns the motion accepted in the House of Representatives, or the amendment. It shall include the extension of the period of the amount of the guarantee. How does Mr Van Pareren assess the extension of two to twelve months in the context of the crisis? He himself asked questions about this to the Secretary of State. I am also very curious to see what his own assessment is of the feasibility of finding a new job within 12 months and using the extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u8	I am pleased that Mrs Sent is also asking me to do this. I tried to express that concern in my question to the Secretary of State. I'm very curious about the term. I agree with you that 12 months may be a short period for some, including those who do not have a disability. We'll talk about this today. I'm very curious about what bandwidth the Secretary of State is going to offer us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mrs. Sent, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u10	So you agree with me that the 12-month deadline is too short. That's how I read your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u11	Yes, but I would like to make a comment on that. Sometimes three months isn't too short. Sometimes 12 months is too short. Sometimes 18 months is too short. I agree with you that the bandwidth should have some attention. But again, I'm very curious what at some point is the contribution of the Secretary of State. Maybe she comes up with an idea on another level, so I say: hey, that gives that space in a different way than literally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u12	I have listened with interest and for a large part to the story of the Forum for Democracy spokesperson in this important dossier. Of course we all know the limitations of this Chamber. We have laws to take as they are. But this Chamber, especially in this area, is creative enough to see with the help of the Secretary of State if there are any ways to solve problems. My question concerns the following. Mr Van Pareren points out that there are a lot of people who have to rely on social security. But he identifies this group, I think, as a very special group. It is not a group of people who, for example, are "normal" in the assistance or something, but a group that has something that has happened that you cannot influence at all. Would he like to go back to that? Because that means that this group could also be treated in a special way. If this group were the same as the large group calling on social security, you would have to say equal monks, equal cuts. But in this case the monks are not equal and the hood may also be different. Did I understand that so well from him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u13	Van Pareren, a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u14	I can confirm to Mr Kox that he understood very well that I think this is a very special group. I named that, too. It is a group of people who are out of their fault and out of their own intervention in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to start my contribution with a double heart cry. Why in the social domain do we manage so badly to draft simple legislation? Then why are we unable to achieve a drastic simplification and to reduce the tangles of regulations to an understandable, transparent and easily communicatable system? Our whole system of social security schemes is and remains far too complex. The Wajong file is an example of this. The current Wajong legislation is a labyrinth of three different regimes and the Christian Union Group supports the need for harmonisation of the Wajong regimes. But the legislation that replaces it is and remains complicated. It's very complicated, actually. The number of calculation rules is reduced, but the rules themselves remain difficult to explain because of the many techniques. The UWV also makes this point. It is a task, also for us, to explain briefly and concisely where the profit from the simplification of this bill is and what that means for Wajangers himself. That leads to unrest. Do we realise enough that we are dealing with a vulnerable group of young people and their parents who need clarity and simplicity? The Christian Union Group would like to ask the Secretary of State to seriously reflect on this. Isn't this unrest among Wajongers and their parents also a direct consequence of the continuing complexity of the new regime? How did it consult with the group of direct stakeholders in the legislative process? Can she explain to Wajangers what's changing for them? Mr. Chairman. This cry of hearts is without prejudice to the fact that the accumulation of three separate Wajong schemes, the OWajong, the Wajong 2010 and the Wajong 2015 are no longer justifiable. My group supports this approach and the Council of State agrees with harmonisation. It can't be that your birth year as Wajanger determines which scheme you are eligible for and what your rights and obligations are. In doing so, my group underlines that this legislative proposal has no austerity mark. This should be emphasized more in communication. It is purely a question of harmonising stacked regulation and making work more rewarding. The Christian Union Group stresses the importance of paid work for Wajongers who can handle it. This is good for their self-respect and social functioning. Research shows that Wajongers who work less often rely on mental health care and Wmo support. However, their position is far from rosy. The evaluation by the SCP of the Participation Act that introduced the third and last regime changes in the Wajong shows that there is still a world to win. Their job opportunities have increased, but their income position has deteriorated. Many working young disabled people have a part-time job and a flex contract. On balance, this means that Wajangers' income security is under pressure. At the moment, about a quarter of the 250,000 Wajangers have paid work. Half of that total group also has work power. The corona crisis will worsen Wajanger's job security. My group is very concerned about this. Can the Secretary of State share her thoughts with us on the impact of the corona crisis on Wajongers' job opportunities? Is there any need for extra support? Can it assure the Christian Union Group, but above all the Wajongers themselves, that it is on top of this? Then harmonisation and making more work pay in a little more detail. The harmonised scheme amounts to a system whereby 30% of the additional income is not offset by the benefit. A correction factor applies for working with or without salary dispensation. The level of benefit remains 70% of the wml and there is also no capital or partner income test. My group welcomes the proposed individual income guarantee scheme. That gives Wajangers more certainty and makes them more resilient, for example in the event that a Wajanger loses his job and has not found a new job within a year. We know from research how hard it is for this group to find another job. Of course, that is certainly true in this corona crisis. The House of Representatives has done a good job by extending the initial two-month guarantee period to twelve months. This deadline applies to all working Wajangers for whom the new rules are worse than the old benefits. However, it is of course crucial that the guarantee scheme is properly enforceable. The UWV was initially critical and that led to adjustment. My question is whether the adapted scheme has also been tested by the UWV for feasibility. If so, what is the conclusion? In view of the sharp contraction of our economy and the rapid increase in labour market turbulence, this indexed guarantee scheme will have to prove its worth. The question is, however, Mr Van Pareren pointed out there how robust the scheme is if unemployment is to rise very sharply as a result of the crisis. Isn't a year too tight? Does the State Secretary see any possibility of making the guarantee scheme more crisis-proof? We welcome the extension of the period of revival to the AOW age. My group is also pleased that, after amendment, now that every working Wajangere always has at least the same income as someone without Wajong but with the same job pay and hours of work. Mr. Chairman. It's important that if Wajangers are going to work more, they're going to have more of it. The evaluation of the Participation Act has clearly shown that many Wajongers themselves have that problem. The "saw-tooth effect" shows that the current regime is not very stimulating. The harmonised scheme is set at 30%. That's roughly the same as the system of the WIA. The question raised by the Christian Union Group is what expectations the Secretary of State has on this point. Many Wajongers work part-time precisely because this fits their specific obstacles. It is wonderful that every Wajonger may retain gross 30% of every extra euro earned, but what is the real rack in Wajongers' working size? How do we align the world of statistics with the real world of the Wajanger? I'm just thinking about the medical hours limit. The support of Wajongers who can and want to work more is essential in all of this. We are going to talk about this in the legislative proposal for a broad offensive which is now in the House of Representatives. Can the Secretary of State clarify in general the relationship between the broad offensive, which Wajongers really has to make resilient in the labour market, and the current legislative proposal? I think this is important for today's debate. My group also welcomes the fact that the House of Representatives has arranged for Wajongers to be allowed to make occasional extra earnings without any impact on their benefits. That removes the sharp, demotivating edges. Is it clear in all cases what the definition of "incidental" is? Are there any conditions attached to that? The obligation to accept an appropriate work offer is deleted.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Can the Secretary of State clarify what difference this makes from the Wajanger's perspective? We cannot allow the Wajong measures to enter into force on 1 July. This is now, if the legislative proposal is adopted, of course, 1 January 2021. That has implications for, among other things, Wajangers who study or study. After all, the new system of harmonization indicates that, unlike today, training is no longer accompanied by a reduction in the Wajong benefit. That is an important improvement. Can the Secretary of State, as my group insists, ask for some creative benevolence or benevolence? benevolent creativity to look at that date of entry into force? Is it prepared to meet this group of students in Wajangers by bringing the harmonisation rule into force before the start of the next academic year? It concerns a group of Wajangers that invests in knowledge maintenance and in competence development entirely in line with its own activation policy................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I like to hear that. It is very important that harmonised legislation also persuades employers to employ Wajangers. Does the Secretary of State consider that the new system is more attractive to employers in this respect than the existing arrangements? What is their opinion on the harmonisation law? This bill, I already indicated, is not motivated by austerity considerations. That can also be underlined here. Microeconomically, the starting point should be that Wajangers do not decline. The Wajong benefit is certainly not a big deal and for many there is no more than a lifetime on and around the minimum level. However, the weighting of income effects remains difficult. That could be a bit the stinger in this debate. The Secretary of State insists that the financial consequences depend on the personal situation. And the necessary examples have been shared in the written preparation. However, that remains a difficult approach. This bill touches the soul of Wajangers and the most important thing they want to know is what this proposal means for them, for their financial situation and for their future prospects. The Christian Union Group once again urges the Secretary of State for a brief but clear reflection on groups of Wajongers who are improving on it, who will experience no change and those who are declining on it. What are plausible effects? That's a basic question we ask in this house with every bill. And what is her expectation about the division of these three groups? I am well aware, moreover, that the Secretary of State does not have aggregated figures. The necessary data are contained in individual UWV files and municipal administrations. That may be so, but we may ask the Secretary of State for some kind of plausibility reasoning. And that's what I like to do. Our groups, President, all the groups here in the Chamber, have received many reactions from Wajangers and their parents on the proposed harmonisation law. The concerns are numerous and lead to a lot of uncertainty and stress. People don't feel heard, sometimes even locked out. There is incomprehension and doubt about the government. There are also misunderstandings. We should name them, too. And there are pressing questions about the impact of the bill on Wajangers' financial resources. The Christian Union Group, like all the groups today, takes these concerns very seriously. Should this bill be adopted, it will require an intensive, credible and tailored communication path. Of course, Wajongers want to know quickly what consequences this bill has for them personally. This mainly concerns financial consequences, now but also in the longer term, which have direct repercussions for their independence and social participation, and thus determine their self-esteem and self-esteem. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she will ensure such an "empathetic" communication path and how she will address the implementation organisations on this sensitive issue. The explainability of the new rules needs top priority. We would also like to hear when the calculation tool and decision tree are available to help Wajangers to identify the consequences of the new legislation for their personal situation. Timeliness is required here. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of last month, the long-awaited broad opinion of the College of Human Rights on people with disabilities appeared. The Council does not judge the current "an sich" bill, but nevertheless concludes that existing and planned legislation for people with disabilities is and remains too complex. In addition, legislation for this vulnerable group should be reviewed under the UN Disability Convention. The Council presents a handy checklist that the government can apply when assessing draft legislation in the light of this UN Convention. This concerns the extent to which legislation promotes autonomy, freedom of choice, self-direction and participation of people with disabilities. The ChristianUnion Group asks the Secretary of State for an ex-post weighting of the present Wajong Bill based on this checklist. My group also calls for this list of contents to be given a structural place in the SZW policy for people with disabilities. Can she promise this last one? It is precisely because a number of effects of harmonisation are uncertain that a heavy and timely evaluation of this law is needed. The Christian Union Group calls for a comprehensive and timely evaluation of the functioning of the law. We are thinking of monitoring and evaluating income effects, the guarantee scheme, but also of the consequences for activation, training and social participation. In this way, action can be taken quickly if there is evidence of demonstrably negative consequences for Wajangers. Can the Secretary of State undertake such a heavy assessment? The checklist of the College of Human Rights can do good. Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution with a heart cry about the complexity and technical nature of our Wajong legislation. I conclude with the Christian Union Group's appeal to the Secretary of State to involve Wajongers and their parents in its policy, more than is currently the case. That is, we believe, the right way to deal with this group of vulnerable young people. The corona crisis is deteriorating their labour market situation. That's why we need to offer Wajanger's security and perspective. An inclusive society means that everyone belongs in good times and in bad times. I look forward to the Secretary of State's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u18	Happy contribution, Mr. Ester, in which you clearly address the pros and cons of the present bill. I agree with you that comprehension is extremely important and that it is now failing, while an alternative has been put forward which is understandable and ensures that no groups go backwards. On that point, I would like to ask Mr Ester. He asked for special attention for groups that are declining. It is clear that three groups are declining. These are groups with a medical time limitation which receive part-time pay and, in addition, a Wajong benefit, groups which use the change in size and groups which are no longer able to make use of it. Does Mr Ester consider it desirable that there should be a legislative proposal which would make these groups worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u19	The question is clear. The underlying assumption isn't quite there. At present, we do not know enough whether these groups are declining as a group. That is very much the question, because it depends on their personal situation. This has been discussed in detail in the written preparation. I just went into it myself. Apart from this, the approach must be to ensure that groups do not systematically decline. That is why I say that these groups must be closely monitored. If we see that things aren't going well, we need to intervene. I would very much like to stick to that principle. In general, however, you cannot say that. There are also groups that progress and groups that remain equal. It's about the balance in the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u20	I do not quite understand Mr Ester's answer. It is clear that groups are declining. Those are the three groups I just mentioned. Can he give his support to a bill that would reduce the number of groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u21	That remains to be seen from the answers. I myself asked about these three groups: what are the consequences and how are the three groups divided? I have addressed this explicitly and I am very curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State on that point. We will certainly take that into account in our consideration of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u22	But it's a fact. I don't understand. It is a fact, and if that is the case, I understand that Mr Ester believes that he cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u23	No, it's also about the degree of inequality. Moreover, you should not forget that the current three regulations are also quite wrong for the groups you are talking about. So we have been dealing with this inequality for a long time. To be honest, I think that is a little underexposed in our entire debate. We pretend that all the arrangements we have now are working out in the same way for all groups. However, there are considerable differences between the three schemes. A number of groups you mentioned yourself. So the question is not only whether groups are moving forward or backward, but how this relates to the current situation. If we did not pass the law, we would also have to deal with the social inequality between the groups you are talking about. We must weigh that up, but you must also weigh that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u24	Finally, very briefly. If there is an alternative, where no one is going backwards, would that alternative be preferable, in Mr Ester's view, to a legislative proposal in which groups are declining?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u25	I think Mrs. Sent can guess my answer. It depends, of course, on what this proposal looks like. We'll be glad to see that. Just to say ins blue hinein that we are for that, that goes a little too far. But thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, too, for the clear statement made by Mr Ester. During the day, it will appear that many groups have many interfaces. That's interesting. It is also interesting to see how the Secretary of State deals with this. But I also ask him, like Mr Van Pareren, the question of equal monks, equal hoods. It is good that we have equal standards in this country for people in equal situations. Does Mr Ester agree with me that we are dealing here with a very special group that would deserve to be treated in a special way? They are people who happen at birth or shortly after, and cannot have any influence on them. This means that the rest of their lives must take place in austerity. After all, you will not become one of the people who have made it all very well. If that is the case, does Mr Ester agree with me that it is a special group and that the government and we in Parliament therefore have an obligation to prevent a deterioration for that group? I will not say at any price, that is excessive, but I think we should have extra care, because it is a special group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u27	I feel that pain. I'm going along with that, and I know very well what you're saying. If you are talking about equal monks, equal hoods, then you must also look at the current situation. For the three schemes, that same principle of equal monks, equal hoods does not pay off. I would like to give that to you. However, we have to make sure that I have emphasised that groups are not going backwards and that we are pulling everything out of the closet to make sure that this is possible. It may well be possible, because the proposal has no austerity mark. I'm gonna show you that again. For groups that are excluded, the State Secretary has devised a guarantee scheme. Thanks to colleagues from the SGP and Forum across the street, something else has now improved considerably. The question is how crisis-proof this is, but I repeat myself. I think that's the background to your question. We will hear from the Secretary of State what her opinion is on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u28	I very much agree with Mr Ester that we should not glorify what we have. The existing rules are extremely complex and complex. The question is for whom they are most complex: for those who derive their rights, or those who have to deal with them. For harmonisation, I believe that we support the Secretary of State, Chamberwide: what is there needs to be changed. The only question is whether this Chamber will be able to be creative-willing or benevolent-creative, to use your own words, to find a way out in case there would be deterioration and correct this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u29	Yes, I took that up in my contribution. I have said what the preconditions are for this. I'll hear from the Secretary of State how she reacts. I would like to stress once again that I do not see enough in the debate and in the preparations for the fact that we now have different measures for different groups of Wajangers. This is accompanied by different rights and obligations. That's not good. The aim of harmonization is to create something intelligent. The question is whether it's good enough or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u30	I welcome the hand-out from a coalition group. I hope that in the course of the debate we will be able to achieve that kind of creativity in order to resolve problems, if they arise, within the powers of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. Every wave is the sea. In everything you do and leave, no matter how small and void, the whole thing is decided. This wisdom has once again gained meaning for me in preparing for today's debate. This debate is about the position on the labour market of people who have been subjected to permanent restrictions since birth or at a young age. This debate is not about many billions of euros, nor about many millions of people. No, we are talking about a small group in the whole of our population and a small sum in the whole of our rich budget. This, as the world around us shakes on its foundations. However, we are having this debate today with full surrender. Thirteen political groups are taking part and a whole day has been allocated to it. I think it's a sign of civilization that we do it this way, because every wave is the sea and every drop of the ocean. The debate we are having today is a preliminary conclusion of a bill submitted by the Secretary of State to the House of Representatives about a year ago. Since then, hundreds of e-mails, hundreds of letters and many pages of questions and answers have been devoted by all kinds of stakeholders, consultative bodies, the two chambers, many sessions and many technical explanations. There are two reasons for this. The first is that the matter is very complicated in the technical sense. The second is that it is about vital interests of people who depend on a Wajong benefit. In this debate, I would like to see as much as possible whether all this technical complexity and its simplification serve the interests of those Wajangers, or whether they stand in the way of these vital interests. This is not about the details. It is a question of reaching a final political balance. Which brings me to the bill itself. The proposal consists of a current multitude of different Wajong regimes. This has also been mentioned before. There are three, but actually ten. In short, something may happen about that. The draft law aims to shape harmonisation in such a way that participation in the employment of young people with disabilities is further activated. There are no objections to this objective or objectives from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. That forest of regulations can be decentized and an extra support for people who want to work is only good. To give you an example of the latter: in the current regime there is the so-called saw tooth. In the original Wajong it may be at some point that if you start working more, you will earn less. It's a good thing that that's gonna end. I thought that Mr Ester in particular gave a few other examples of improvements in this proposal. Fine. So far GroenLinks likes to go along with the thoughts of the Secretary of State. Then we come to the jumping point of the debate. Without wishing to do injustice to other problems that are still in it, that is in particular the position of people with medical hours limitation. These are people who work permanently less than a full week on medical grounds. At least, for them, a full working week is less than 40 hours. Their position changes dramatically; not in the current situation, but in the perspective. If these people lose or want to leave their current jobs and do not get back to work within a year, they will be covered by the new regime. This new regime ensures that they can no longer exceed the statutory minimum wage in their earnings. That is a considerable decline in perspective. I agree with Mrs Sent that we really do not need an evaluation. It's clear that there's a back door. That is what we must call it. In recent months, the government and all the political groups in this Chamber have been bombarded with reports and arguments from interested parties, interest groups and trade unions to reverse this planned deterioration. They have offered a concrete alternative in the form of the so-called alternative formula. The previous speakers have already referred to this and the following speakers will undoubtedly all refer to it. First of all, a heartfelt compliment to all those people who have put pressure on them. They managed to turn it into a really big political theme. But compliments alone didn't help those people, of course. It's about the result. In order to reach a political balance, I have looked very carefully for the basis for this deterioration or that deterioration in perspective, before you say that they do not deteriorate in the current situation. I had to look hard. So I was looking for the why: why is that happening? One reason given is that the current regime for Wajangers with medical hours limitation is not activating. There's no incentive to work more hours. That is not the case in the alternative formula either. That would be contrary to the objective of the law. More about that later. A second justification is in the costs. It's all hard to tell, but at some point in the whole of the demand still poops up about 100 million. It would be more expensive. That's the second argument I've been able to find. I haven't been able to find any others. Mr. Chairman. Frankly, I find both arguments extremely curious. First of all, there's the argument that there's no incentive. The essential feature of the group of people with medical hours limitation is that they can no longer work hours on medical grounds. In their case, there is absolutely no financial incentive to do so. It distinguishes this group from all kinds of other groups for which that incentive is still an argument. I think Tiny Kox was right to point that out. Mr. Chairman. I found it interesting that not only are we arguing this. Even in the broad social review that I have read with interest, although I do not want to say that I have read all the pages, reference is made to this. I am not going to make everything that is put forward in the broad social review by your policy officials mine. There's quite a bit in there that I don't agree with at all. However, it is nice that they too say that there is a group that cannot work more hours on medical grounds; you should have a separate regime that is above the current minimum. I thought that was an interesting theorem. That is not the position of GroenLinks and it is not "GroenLinksig" at all. It is a statement by the official staff who made that document available to us via the Internet. Extremely relevant. We then come to the second point: the additional costs. That, too, is a special case. There is no demand for an improvement in the position of people with medical hours limitation. It only asks that there should be no deterioration. As it is not an improvement, the group as such is therefore not asked for more costs. The only thing I can come up with is that the whole system as it is being baked is budget neutral. This means that the improvement on the one hand must lead to deterioration on the other hand in order to get the money out. That is, of course, very strange. That is in line with political and bureaucratic logic. You have to pull it out of the square, otherwise all the brakes will go off. You need to find your own cover. I get all that. But when you look at social reality, you say that you want to improve the position of one group of people with permanent disabilities; that costs some money and that has to be paid by worsening the position of other people with permanent disabilities. That cannot be the intention of society, can it? I would like a response from the Secretary of State to this reflection. In view of this deterioration in perspective, I should like to say a few words in a footnote; others have also spoken about this. I really did not understand why the government did not want to review the UN Convention on the Status of People with Disabilities on its own. I don't understand the reluctant attitude in that. You must want to be active. I fully agree with Mr Ester. He says, "Now, in the future, use that checklist." I wouldn't be in favour of doing that in this ex post. I say wait and see if we can make any decisions; let's do that ex ante. I think that's better. Then I come to my conclusion, which is nuanced; you know me a little bit by now. On a number of points, this law improves. On at least one major point: there are a few more, Mrs Sent rightly pointed out that this law leads to a significant deterioration in the perspective of people in a very vulnerable position. From all sides, efforts have been made in recent months to find a solution and to get rid of this deterioration, because harmonization must not necessarily have winners and losers. It can only produce winners. There has been no movement on that and with that the First Chamber has been greatly embarrassed. This applies not only to the members of the parties belonging to the opposition in the Lower House, but also to the members of the parties belonging to the coalition in the Lower House. It's not about that. It's not about left or right either. In this sense, we have, one might say, a point which is not about traditional political contradictions. This is an improvement that we all want and a deterioration that many of us do not want. One will be able to express that more explicitly, given the political position; I understand that. But I am convinced that very many do not want this deterioration. And because these two are inextricably linked in one proposal, there will soon be a vote that will in any case only losers. I therefore urge the Secretary of State to reconsider once more from this point on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I know a lot of what you're saying. This will soon be demonstrated by the contribution of D66, the dilemmas, the concerns. I suspect that Mrs Sent of the PvdA will question all coalition parties on that alternative. So I'm now asking you about the alternative of the alternative. I've been to the National Client Council. We have discussed and passed on the alternative formula in detail. I had the feeling that this alternative formula is another dishonesty for the people out there. So today we're going to be creative in this very beautiful room. My question to Mr Van Gurp is: what is the alternative if that alternative formula would not work? Does GroenLinks, perhaps together with other opposition parties, have something to offer, on the basis of which we come together at the end of the day on something that we can inspire the Secretary of State to improve, should it be so that the one group gets worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u34	I understand your question. No formula is blissful. The alternative formula also has a few open ends. Moreover, in my view they are considerably less than in the proposal now before us, so it would certainly be a step in the right direction. But it is not the position of this Chamber to construct something here today in an adaptation of the arrangement that we can all agree with. We can't, because we can't. Nor do I make a plea just to say: Secretary of State, please accept that alternative formula. The plea is that I will say that again in my handling, but I would like to tell you this: please take one more step back and take the proposal with me. That is not a sign of political weakness, but of political courage. The alternative formula is a good idea, but there are still a number of problems, also against the background of the corona time, which I will say about later. Why don't you sit down at the table with those who are involved, and then make an extreme effort to come up with something for which at least there is much more support than for the current system? So more inventing a process solution is the only thing we can do, I think, and not actually a comma and a "1minX" in a formula factories. Insofar as politicians have to do so, it must be possible to do so across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u35	Then I'll put it another way. I feel that today we are going to talk about the following: if that alternative formula cannot get through, in any way, then we cannot go through with this law. That would be a very complicated conclusion for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u36	I didn't quite get it. I understood that it would be a complicated conclusion, but I did not understand exactly what a complicated conclusion would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u37	We are trapped in the alternative formula calculated by one party for one specific group. If it does not succeed, we must put aside all the benefits of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u38	That's the problem. That's the problem I'm trying to sketch. That is the diabolical dilemma in which we are caught by tying these two together in this way. Now all we have is losers. Because either the bill makes it and then you are actually unhappy on a number of points, or the bill does not make it and then we are unhappy on a number of points, because then there are improvements that will not go on. That is why I say: take your time now, give you the time and the political space to look a little wider than the square on which the whole discussion has taken place in the last six months. That's our plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u39	I am curious to hear the rest of Mr Van Gurp's speech. We'll talk about it all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u40	How much time do you need for your input, Mr. Van Gurp?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u41	I had three minutes 37 when the interruption started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u42	And how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u43	I'm gonna need another three minutes of 33. Maybe a little less. I'm on my last page, so I thought I'd stay in my time. Except the clock went on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u44	Then I suggest that you conclude first and that Mrs De Bruijn then commits her interruption. Is that okay, Mrs. De Bruijn?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u45	As far as I'm concerned, that's fine. I was at the conclusion. We have already made an advance on this in the little debate with Mrs Stienen, which I very much appreciate, because this makes the point sharper. I would like to add the following. I would have made this plea three months ago. However, in this context, I am pressing this plea all the more strongly, because we have all seen other speakers on the subject of the fact that the current situation has completely turned the labour market upside down. And when the labour market is turned upside down, the position of people with disabilities, a vulnerable group in the labour market, comes under pressure first. This has given rise to a new urgency which, for example, means that the guarantee period extended in the Chamber from two to twelve months will undoubtedly be far too short for many people. So there has been a new urgency to really re-examine whether we want this to happen. Mr. Chairman. I said it: we cannot amend ourselves. That is not our intention either. Nor is it our intention to say: take the alternative formula now and everything will be resolved. I would urge the Secretary of State to take back the proposal now and to come forward with a novella for which there is a much wider support in the short term, regardless of what final conclusion it may reach. It's about few points, so it doesn't have to take very long. It does ask for freedom of thought to be granted to yourself. I urge you to do so. I said it would be a sign of great strength. It would be a small movement of great significance. Every wave is the sea, every drop of the ocean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u46	Thanks to Mr. Van Gurp for his introduction and especially for his attempt to strike a balanced balance. In his conclusion, he shows which way he tilts it. I'm also trying to check with him on what that's got to do with. I can see in him that a certain frame of "sorry for this word "sorry" has also been created around it. We have recently seen this being communicated around the law, which has given a lot of people, I think rightly, additional feelings of uncertainty. I would therefore like to go over a few points with Mr Van Gurp. Is there anything else to do about the weighting he makes? He assumes a number of assumptions, such as: the group that improves on them must pay for the group that declines on them. I can see that the law will have to provide sufficient guarantees to the group that is indeed declining in income, which will cost the bill much more money than if we do nothing. So in that sense, I don't see one group paying for another. I also hear Mr Van Gurp say that with the new scheme there is no longer the possibility of earning more than the minimum wage. I'm asking him what he's basing that on and if that's true. Will the group for which harmonization offers more opportunities to improve the income position not also be increased? It's got to be, 'cause that group's gonna have more money too. Can he look within that context to see if his assumptions are all right? Perhaps the Secretary of State can explain again whether they are all correct and whether Mr Van Gurp has come to the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u47	Mr. Van Gurp, may I ask you to give me a brief answer? We're running a little out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u48	That's a little tricky after such an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u49	With yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u50	Let me confine myself to the core. Are my assumptions true? I submitted some of them to the Secretary of State for questioning. That's what I'm gonna hear from her. If your assumption is correct that one group does not have to pay for another group, so that there is no budgetary reason to deteriorate the position of the people with medical hours limitation in perspective, and there is no argument in the incentive nature, because they do not work more hours, then it remains completely incomprehensible to me why. Because there is no substantive ground either. It's not because of an incentive and it's not because of the budget. My question would then be: why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr Schalk, a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u52	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to Mr Van Gurp. He has identified a number of bottlenecks and concerns of him. By the way, he just said that three months ago I might have said the same thing. But I still had a strong impression that he strongly related a number of things to the coronapericles. His conclusion was that the Secretary of State might consider coming up with a novelle. If you want to change something, so be it. Only, at the present time with the corona measures, we can see that there are also a number of emergency laws, which solve precisely the bottlenecks that arise from the corona situation, at least for the time being. Could that also be an option for Mr Van Gurp?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u53	I think it's an interesting suggestion. Any solution the Secretary of State can find not to get into the trouble where you have to take the bad with the good or reject the good with the bad. That's the dilemma. And if that is a solution in which the deterioration in the perspective of those with medical hours is postponed for at least another two years for the sake of corona or for whatever reason, and these two years are used to see if it can be otherwise, then I would be very welcome. So if that is to be clarified, or if an emergency measure is promised that will immediately undo what we are deciding today... Of course, the latter could be, although it's a bit curious. I'm always open to creativity. I said, "We're in the prisoner's dilemma." None of us feel happy about that, I guess. Secretary of State, can't you really go beyond this? I think you'd get a lot of hands on that. The shape is not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u54	Following that: at the time of choosing a novelle, there will indeed be a period of delay and so on, with the right sides being pushed away as well. Perhaps in the course of the day we come to the conclusion that there are other alternatives. I am not talking about alternative formulas, but about alternative solutions, rather than just a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u55	If there are and they achieve the same goal, so that the piece of deterioration I have talked about in detail is put out of operation, whether or not for a certain period of time, it would be a great advance in my view. I understand that the profits, which are also included in the bill, can go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mrs Sent on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also especially to the messenger. I have never received as many personal e-mails from troubled people as I have received in the legislative proposal before. That is, it happens regularly that I receive a large stream of copy-paste messages, but here it was a huge collection of personal stories. From a mother of an adult son with asparagus, who wonders how her son should survive after her death. From a court employee who, because of his disability, cannot make a full working week and therefore cannot stand financially on his own feet. From parents of two adult sons with autism, who fear to remain prisoners for life of their children with disabilities. Some of them even took the trouble to visit us. For example, Pim, who has progressive muscle disease, said that he works 23 hours a week at the NVWA and has a child's wish. With his salary and additional Wajong, he can buy a place. However, if the Wajong falls away as a result of the present bill, he can forget his wish for children and his home. And Jiska, who has cerebral parese and studies notarial law, said that as a result of the present bill, she becomes dependent on her husband and parents. And that while her husband, because of the heavy burden on his shoulders, has already had a burn-out twice. Mr. Chairman. The reason for the present legislative proposal lies in the observation that the system of various schemes in the Wajong is complicated and that there are rules that result in people with a Wajong benefit not participating, because, for example, they will not earn extra if they go to work more, because they are cut off when they go to study or because they do not dare to work out of fear of not being able to get back into the Wajong if they lose their jobs. That is why the government is working out measures to ensure that more work pays off, that Wajongers can always fall back on the Wajong and that Wajongers keep their benefits if they are in education. The analysis of the problem supports the PvdA. We appreciate the efforts to improve the complex legislation and regulations for young disabled people. But my group has a number of doubts about the solution proposed by the government. Everyone deserves a chance to get to work. And people who want to work, but can't do it, are entitled to a decent safety net. These two principles lead the PvdA in the assessment of the present legislative proposal. Joining in is important for us as a society, but especially for people with disabilities themselves. These people, like all of us, want to advance their lives with and through their work, but they just need a little more help. Work ensures economic and financial independence, contributes to self-esteem and good health and contributes to a strong economy. Mr. Chairman. Executableness is an essential part of the assessment of legislation by the Upper Chamber. Therefore, it is good to read that UWV considers all parts feasible and enforceable. However, the condition for the feasibility of 1 January 2021 is that UWV is commissioned to start implementing this proposal before 1 March 2019. We assume that UWV has not yet received this assignment in anticipation of the treatment in this Chamber and we would like to hear from the Secretary of State what this means before the starting date. Executable from the perspective of the people involved is an essential part of the assessment of legislation by the PvdA's Upper Parliamentary Group. Mr. Ester pointed out the same thing. The Scientific Council for Government Policy points out in its report 'Knowing is not yet done' that we often know what we should do, but often do not act accordingly. I am sorry to note that the present legislative proposal, which aims to harmonise Wajong legislation, has already failed. It took a long technical briefing from the Ministry officials to explain to the Social Affairs and Employment Committee what's going on with the oWajong, the nWajong, the Wajong 2010, the Wajong 2015, wage value, guarantee amount, salary dispensation, job pay, Breman scheme, size wage and so on. UWV is therefore of the opinion that the rules are not explainable. As a result, uncertainty about the level of income remains with Wajangers who want to work. The threshold experienced by Wajangers will continue to exist with the current rules. UWV therefore questions the effectiveness of the measures and is supported by the Klankbordgroep Jobs Appointment and by organisations such as the National Clients Council and Each. Why didn't the Secretary of State choose explanatory rules? The Secretary of State does choose that more work should pay. In fact, the present bill contains incentives to work more hours. However, going back to work does not pay for people in the continued work scheme Wajong 2010. And what exactly is there to stimulate in people with medical hours limitation or with an energy problem? They can no longer work hours for medical reasons. Wajongers work on average about 50% of their working week, because life with disabilities takes a lot of time and energy. Why does the Secretary of State think that this group should be encouraged to work more hours? In addition, we learn from the work of Nobel Prize winners Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo that the effect of financial incentives is systematically overestimated. How does the Secretary of State assess the principles of the present bill against that background? The bill contains one element that can count on the warm support of the PvdA. This concerns the fact that Wajangers who are going to study will continue to receive their full benefit. This was already the case under the old Wajong, but with the arrival of the Wajong 2010 this scheme had been abolished. From that moment on, receiving study funding led to a 75% discount on the Wajong benefit at the Wajong 2010 or to the complete termination of the benefit at the Wajong 2015. With the present bill, this will be repaired. We can count on our support for this. Mr. Chairman. However, the PvdA finds it indigestible that a number of groups are declining as a result of the present legislative proposal. This concerns three groups. Firstly, all people with an hourly limit whose income is part-time wage plus Wajong benefit; secondly, young disabled people using the change in size and thirdly, young disabled people who are no longer able to make use of the change in size. In doing so, the second group may benefit from a transitional arrangement, with the result that they receive a guarantee income as long as they continue to work. But how many people is that about? Following two in vain requests for this to be made in writing, I ask the Secretary of State to give oral support to this now. I'd like to ask for specific attention for Wajongers who lose their jobs. If they do not find a new job within a year, the guarantee amount will lapse to ensure current income. As a result, a large group is likely to suffer negative consequences as a result of the present legislative proposal. After all, people with disabilities are less likely to have permanent employment than those without disabilities. They work more often as employees with a flexible employment or as employees in order to be able to have a paid job. In addition, the implementation of the individual set-off in relation to the guarantee period is complex and error-sensitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u58	I would like to ask Mrs Sent for an explanation. I think I have heard something earlier in your speech that you said: a financial incentive is not always challenging. Can you explain that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u59	For a long time economists thought that we're all a cool calculating homo economicsman and that if we make more money, we're going to work more. A great deal of policy is also focused on this, with fines, sanctions and subsidies. But more and more we learn from scientific research that we are limited by financial incentives; we are guided by fears and emotions, and we are guided by the way others behave. As I said, Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo won the Nobel Prize this year. For example, they have done very nice experimental research on how to improve education in Africa. You'd think you'd have to make better school books available, or you'd give some more money. When it appeared that the solution to improve training in Africa was to make more sanitary towels available. This is a bit of a more detailed reflection of the alternative way in which we are influenced, and financial incentives are only limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mrs Sent, I like the way you explain it very much. I also agree that there are more intrinsic issues in motivation than just money. I get from the input of many Wajangers that the ability to earn more is a challenge. Do I get it wrong that you say that's not so important? Or is that in line with your thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u61	I think there are two axes along which you have to judge the bill. One axis is indeed that work must pay and that it must also be seen as fair. As far as I'm concerned, the other axis is that no one should go backwards. That's what economists call the Pareto criterion. Some people are allowed to improve on it without other people going backwards. As far as I am concerned, these are the two axes. On one axis, this legislative proposal goes wrong because some people are actually going backwards on it. I welcome the extension of the period of the guarantee amount achieved in the House of Representatives, but I am still going to talk about concerns surrounding that period in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u63	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u64	Furthermore, in many cases, people who are unable to work full-time because of their disability continue to earn below the statutory minimum wage. They are still covered by the assistance regime, with the corresponding obligations and possible sanctions. The supposed incentive to work more is not realistic for people who simply cannot do so because of their limitation. Does the Secretary of State recognise the negative effects of the bill outlined above? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for meeting these groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u65	I have a question for Mrs Sent. You have just indicated that those who are entitled to earn but remain below the minimum wage still fall back on an additional benefit. Of this you say: with the responsibility associated with it. It is true that for those in the Wajong, accountability is much less. For example, there is no power key or partner key. So what responsibility are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u66	My main point is that some groups are getting worse and that, as far as we are concerned, that is inexhaustible. This has to do with people with medical hours limitation who simply cannot be stimulated to work more and who previously had the opportunity to earn the legal minimum wage. That is still the case if you have a high job wage for more hours of work, but if you work few hours and have a low job wage, you can no longer grow to the statutory minimum wage in seven years, as was the case before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u67	That's different from what you were just talking about. You just hinted that people who don't make those hours, or who don't make that minimum wage, will be given all kinds of accountability, so that they can actually call on the Wajong benefit. I asked you what you were talking about. You said that, so it has been corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u69	My point is about the group which, as far as I am concerned, should not go backwards and in this case is going backwards. That's about a group of vulnerable people. As far as I'm concerned, that's indigestible. Mr. Chairman. The special situation is that there is an alternative formula available for the calculation of the income system. This formula can count on the broad support of the National Clients Council, Elke(in), FNV, CNV and VCP. This is based on the starting points of the existing Wajong legislation. This also makes it possible for people with an hour limit to earn the job wage applicable to them. And this alternative formula has been assessed as executable by the UWV. The only comment is that a very small number of them may deteriorate, but a hardness clause could be included. Therefore, I really cannot understand why the Secretary of State does not choose to embrace this broad consensus. What's stopping her from doing this? The alternative formula is also warmly recommended by the "Minister of Disabled Affairs," Rick Brink. He therefore called on the members of the First Chamber to support the alternative proposed by the above-mentioned civil society organisations. That request has reached us in many ways, and I am happy to pass it on to the Secretary of State. Is it prepared to implement this alternative formula? The inspection SZW writes in the report "At work, for how long?" 50% of young people with a Wajong benefit are still on the sidelines a year later. And 40% of the Wajangers are still at home three to four years later. The Inspection notes that I quote: 'especially in the case of vulnerable young people, a negative experience can go on working for a long time to find the next job'. The evaluation of the Participation Act by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that young disabled people often work part-time and increasingly through temporary contracts. Then what is the 12-month deadline for the amount of the guarantee worth, I ask the Secretary of State. The economic situation of the company or the policy not to enter into fixed contracts is regularly decisive in order not to offer a permanent contract to a young person with disabilities, despite good functioning. This is what Regioplan describes in the report "Young disabled people at work sustainably." What is the Secretary of State going to do to change this? Now the economic situation has also deteriorated dramatically as a result of the current corona crisis. The number of vacancies has fallen by a quarter since the start of the corona crisis, the UWV reports. The Centraal Planbureau notes that the number of hours worked in the Netherlands has fallen "historically strongly'. As the restrictive measures to control the corona virus will be in force for a long time, the economy will not recover quickly. It's not going to be a so-called V-shaped crisis, expects the CPB. And so unemployment will rise rapidly. And so it becomes more difficult for young disabled people to find a new job within 12 months and thus qualify for the guarantee amount. In addition, a part of the Wajangers is also hampered by the fact that they are vulnerable, who, for health reasons, have to spend as much as possible in isolation as possible. If they lose their jobs, they can't look for another job. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the corona crisis and the expected recession call for an adjustment of the deadline for the amount of the guarantee? Mr. Chairman. My group has taken note with great concern of the broad advice of the College of Human Rights on the position of people with disabilities from a young age in the light of the UN Convention on Handicap. In it, the College makes a number of comments on the present legislative proposal, which are entirely in line with the points I have raised. The round tables organised by the College show that participants feel the perspective of the future is compelling. They fear a lifetime income close to the social minimum up to a possible maximum around the minimum wage as a result of the present legislative proposal. In addition, they experience uncertainty due to the complexity of the calculations. Moreover, it is reported that these can only be made real once the law has been adopted and entered into force. For example, when calculating income support, UWV must use two formulas: the "general" formula and the formula-Renkema/Van Dijk. The formula providing the highest income support should be applied. This is complex in the implementation and requires mistakes. It is also difficult for those involved to control. What is the Secretary of State going to do to support people affected by this bill so that they can estimate the financial consequences of the choices they can make and direct themselves? The College criticises the government that it has not provided sufficient insight into the way in which substantively-systematic arguments have emerged. And the College believes that this would be desirable, in the light of the UN Convention on Handicap and the impact of the proposal. The College advises the government, I quote, 'to carry out, on its own initiative, a visible assessment of draft legislation in the light of the United Nations Convention on Human Rights in a way that does justice to what has been referred to in the opinion as a new mindset in the process of drafting legislation that affects people with disabilities from a young age, unlike recent draft legislation so far. It is at the heart of the Convention: think about people with disabilities in society as carriers of human rights and as participants at the national and local level at which these rights are implemented." To this end, the College has drawn up a checklist which can assist in carrying out a visible assessment on its own initiative in the light of the UN Convention in proposals that affect the position of people who have had a disability from an early age. This includes a basics check, a rights and obligations check and a coordination check. Can the Secretary of State undertake to use this checklist in future legislation for which it is relevant? Chairman! I conclude with the core of the concerns of the PvdA regarding the present bill, and that is that it does not meet the Pareto-criterum. There is a prosperity improvement according to the Pareto criterion if prosperity increases for at least one person, without thereby reducing the prosperity of any other person. Now this is quite a strict criterion, but we therefore consider it appropriate to apply it to a vulnerable group as young disabled people. It is a good thing that Wajangers who are going to study are improving, but it should not be the case that people with medical hours limit reach less than the minimum wage. In any case, by means of a guarantee amount, people do not fall directly back on it. However, that may be the case later. With the FNV, the National Clients' Council and others, my group believes that the harmonised income support scheme is compatible with the UN Convention on Handicap. After all, workers with disabilities should not be discriminated against in terms of salary due to reduced working capacity due to their disability. However, many people with disabilities cannot make enough hours to reach the statutory minimum wage, but work according to their ability. The minimum wage should then be declared applicable. For the PvdA the solution is simple: make the guarantee a real guarantee that always revives, maintain the continued scheme for people with medical hours and give fully disabled people a little income if they find a job. Only then will we become an inclusive society with compassion. For also Pim and Jiska have the right to equal opportunities and equal pay for work of equal value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u71	I would like to return to Mrs Sent's introduction. I was hoping that she would go into that further during her speech and, if necessary, put some things right. By the way, I fully agreed with your glowing speech in your introduction on the importance of participating in society. A little further in your introduction, you referred to the many letters we had. As Mr Van Pareren said this morning, a lot of people are going to be watching right now. You quoted from one of the letters. I share those concerns. One of the mothers said: I am afraid that the right to Wajong falls away with the introduction of this new regime. I was actually hoping that you would take away this concern and my question to you is as follows. Do you indeed believe that there are people who are losing their right to Wajong with this arrangement? Or can you reassure them and say that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u72	Unfortunately, I can't reassure people that they're not going backwards. I'd like to give you an overview of groups that are deteriorating. These are Wajongers with a higher wage value, a high job pay and more hours. In doing so, there is a decline in income without the guarantee scheme. Wajongers with a change of sizes go into decline significantly without a guarantee scheme. Wajongers with a Breman scheme are making some progress unless they go more towards full-time work. That's all about the o-Wajong. At the Wajong 2010 the Wajongers with a higher wage and a higher job pay are a bit worse off if they work more hours. The greatest deterioration for this group working with pay dispensation and part-time work is the disappearance of the continued scheme, which means that the statutory minimum wage will no longer be reached in the long term. Those are facts and those are groups that are deteriorating as a result of the present legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u73	Yes, but you make a very general remark from a quote. That may be true, but that was in fact about the unrest that people were afraid that this new scheme might cause them to lose their Wajong benefit. But, of course, there remains a right to a Wajong benefit. Don't you think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u74	There is still a Wajong scheme, but it is a Wajong scheme in which certain groups are declining. We find that really indigestible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u75	That is, of course, a position that you may take, but I would like to emphasise in particular that words matter. We must all radiate that we are in the process of maintaining a safety net for this group of people, and that the minimum level of safety you can think of anything you want to do with it, that those people are now getting just standing up. Nothing's gonna change that. I would argue in favour of making it clear that this is the most important issue. Soon we will talk about the groups that are improving and what we can do for the groups that are declining in income.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u76	If I have given the impression that it is all negative in the present legislative proposal, then that impression is incorrect. There have been improvements. It is good that harmonisation is taking place. There were weird weave errors in the system. It is a good thing that the study scheme is being adapted, because it was really not fair for disabled people to decline as a result of the adjustments made to the previous schemes. There are really good points in the bill. I believe that this has been balanced by the speakers before us, and I hope that I have also made it clear that, as far as I am concerned, there are good points in the legislative proposal before us. What I really cannot support is the fact that the bill does not meet the parietal criterion. The pareto criterion stipulates that groups are improving, while others are not declining. That's a prosperity improvement. Now there are groups going backwards, and I find that indigestible, especially in a vulnerable group like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u77	That's clear, I think. Now we're gonna repeat it. Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you for your warm speech. I've listened with interest to your minicollege behavioral economy. But the pareto-optimum also applies to the current situation. If you take those three different regimes, there is also inequality between groups. I find that extremely underexposed in the discussion so far and quite frankly also a bit in your story. We must also dare to show this: that there is now a fundamental inequality in rights and obligations between groups of Wajangers in the three schemes. That also has to do with your pareto-optimum. I'd like to challenge you to devote two sentences to that. The second point is the following. You spoke in detail about that formula. We have discussed this extensively in the written preparation. I am very pleased that society and interest groups are so actively involved, but we also need to be honest. We also need to see that there are things in that formula that are not very nice from your own point of view. I know very well about the medical hours limit, but if we want to do this properly, we need to launch a huge operation in terms of re-examinations. We don't have a lot of data. They're in the administration of municipalities and UWV. There are also groups going backwards. As far as I'm concerned, you won't get away with it that easily. The most important point is perhaps that your input will break through the system between Wajong, Participation Act and, for example, the WIA. They have a common perspective. You're gonna break it this way. You can do that, but we have to say it very honestly to society. The Participation Act, a bit the crown jewel of the Labour Party, is thus in a very different light. Are you prepared to pay the price of breaking that system, because it has enormous consequences for our social security system? Are you willing to pay that price?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u79	In my view, the differences between Mr Ester and me are smaller than those raised by his question. I think we share the desire to create simpler rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u80	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u81	I have also said that this is desirable in reply to Mrs De Bruijn. However, the problem is that these changes to the rules as they stand are still unclear. There is still a calculation to be made first to see under which arrangement you would be best suited as Wajanger. Even the UWV indicates that because of the unclearness of the rules...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u82	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u83	... will be so that the disabled are still insecure and unwilling to enter the labour market or experience thresholds. Of course there is that willingness, but those thresholds remain. I believe that Mr Ester agrees with me that it is not possible to allow a number of vulnerable groups to move forward and allow others to decline. I hope that the outcome of today's debate will be that we will find a way to address the problem of the groups that are deteriorating in the legislative proposal before us. Anyway. I am also very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State. I may not ask you a question again, but the question would be: what specific group...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u84	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u85	It's not allowed, is it? A rhetorical question: what specific groups are failing with the alternative formula, compared to the current situation? I'm not familiar with specific groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u86	There are also people with lower job pay. They're going backwards. It is especially good for people with a higher job pay and especially the group you are talking about, the people with a medical hours limit. That's clear. But there are also other groups that you might have a little less with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u87	I have a thing for vulnerable groups, and I believe that vulnerable groups should not be allowed to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u88	We all have that in this house! Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u89	As far as I am concerned, that is the most important measure that I am putting forward the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u90	Then I'll go to Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u91	No, because I had two questions. If it's all right, Mr. Chairman? The other was about breaking the system on which our social security system is based and of which your party is pretty much the architect. Are you willing to pay the price for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u92	A brief answer, Mrs. Sent. Then I'll go to Mrs. Oomen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u93	The present bill is in line with that system. That's not the problem. The problem is that I repeat that there is an unintentional side effect, namely that some groups are declining on it. That is also a group Mr Ester asked for attention to when he spoke. I really hope that we can work it out, so that there is a harmonisation of the rules, and we will not let this group go backwards. That's my angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u94	I support Mrs. Ester when she says...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u95	It's Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u96	Excuse me. Congratulations on my support. You had a good argument. I agree with you that we must prevent people from getting worse. A guarantee scheme has been set up for this purpose. So everyone you've been calling on doesn't go backwards, provided there's a steady line of work. There's one group that's really getting worse. Those are the people who expected to be eligible for continued work arrangements. Is that right? Can you give your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u97	I've got a whole list of everyone who's getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u98	You just read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u99	Also people with the medical hours limit, people who use the possibility of changing the size, so the earnings can be higher by job pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u100	We just went over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u101	Exactly. We went over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u102	Then we fall into repetitions. I suggest we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u103	Mr. Chairman. What I want to tell her is that everything that is now deteriorating through the guarantee scheme is kept at the same level. There's one group that's really getting worse. Those are the people who had the expectation to get into the continuing work scheme, but who did not get into it. Could you focus your speech on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u104	This group is deteriorating and, moreover, the guarantee scheme requires you to find a job within 12 months. That was already complicated under normal circumstances, but under the current corona crisis it is even more complicated to get a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u105	Thank you. Then I will proceed with your permission to the next speaker, because we are already 20 minutes behind. Mrs. De Bruijn, do you have a short question? Then we'll do it after the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u106	Yeah, a quick question. In response to Mr Ester's question, I did indeed find that Mrs Sent was overly clinging to the consequences of compensating for a reduction in hours to the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u107	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u108	You keep limiting it to this group. Do you realize that many young disabled people with disabilities are now in the Act of Participation and that there are also people in the Act of Participation who can never work more because they have become sick or ill at a later age? That is actually Mr Ester's question. You can only arrange it for this group. That's easy, but then we have another form of inequality. Do you realise the consequences, including macro-budgetary, if we apply this rule to all people in the same situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mrs. Sent, a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u110	I would like an answer or consideration from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u111	You will also have speaking time, Mrs De Bruijn. Then you can make your point again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u112	My answer remains that, as far as we are concerned, the starting point is that the groups cannot go backwards and that this is not such a big budget. In the current situation, where billions are being allocated to all kinds of problems, I support these measures, and I find it really offensive that there can't be a little extra available for this group to ensure that it doesn't deteriorate as a result of the legislative proposal before us. I'm going to repeat myself. Mrs De Bruijn asked me earlier to highlight the good aspects of the bill. There are. Maybe now I'm highlighting the negative side in the questions, but there are also good sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u113	I suggest we...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u114	The good things are that some groups are making progress. I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u115	I suggest we finish now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u116	The backward groups must be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u117	I'm hearing too many repeats now. Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Mrs. Stienen. Are you okay? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. Here we are in the Knight's Room, under very special circumstances. It is often said that the coronavirus does not discriminate. Anyone could get infected by it. We have seen by now that it depends on many factors how hard that virus can hit you as an individual, whether you're male or female, living alone, living together, older or younger, having children at home, exercising a crucial profession, having a permanent job or a flex job. Today we are talking about a group of people who are also affected in different ways by the corona crisis, precisely because they are already in a vulnerable position. The members of the D66 Group would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she can already assess what this crisis means for the group of people covered by the Wajong. Can the Secretary of State also indicate whether and how it thinks this crisis will affect the implementation of this bill? Mr. Chairman. When you have a disability from a young age, or between the age of 18 and the age of 30, you will have to deal with it your whole life. That's especially true when you go to college and go to work. Then you can be eligible for the arrangement we are discussing today: the Wajong. My group supports the central objective of the legislative proposal, with the harmonisation of three different systems for a Wajong benefit to a package in which there is security of living for people with no sustainable working capacity, in which more work should be paid, in which Wajongers can always fall back on the Wajong, and in which Wajongers can retain their benefit if they follow a study. The balance between participation and security of existence is very important for us. I would like to quote Bart de Bart, entrepreneur and council member of the National Client Council, in a recent video about the campaign #it is about me: "Work is not only income, but also part of your identity and social network." For my group, it is therefore important to stress that people in the Wajong have the right to participate as fully as possible and to belong to our society. That's not a favor, it's a human right. Mr. Chairman. Hence my next heading: the UN Convention on Disabilities. This Convention on Persons with Disabilities is the most important human rights convention relevant to this legislation. The recent opinion of the Human Rights College at the end of February 2020 makes it clear what is the position of people with a disability from an early age in the light of this UN Convention. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State how this bill complies with this treaty. I would also like to hear her reflections on the opinion of the College of Human Rights on the position of people with disabilities from a young age in the light of this UN Convention on disability. In addition, the D66 Group is curious to see how the Secretary of State intends to use attached checklists for draft laws and regulations for future legislative proposals on people with disabilities from a young age. Mr. Chairman. The language of this bill is technical and complex: oWajong, Wajong 2010, Wajong 2015, Breman arrangement, size man, saw tooth and continued working arrangement. There is talk of people with work power, no work power, medical hours limitation and people who are on the sidelines. This distant language makes me uncomfortable. It's like it's not about a group of people in a difficult position who eventually all need customization. People who want to fit in, who often like to work, but sometimes they can't. Sometimes it is because of disability or disability, but also very often because they are faced with ignorance, discrimination and exclusion in our society. We as legislators have to ensure that we do not strengthen this sense of exclusion. Therefore, my group welcomes the recognition of the Secretary of State in her response of 17 January 2020 that we are dealing with 245,000 unique people in the Wajong region, and I also hear the number 250,000 people with their own stories. In recent months we have heard many stories from experience experts from this group; either personally in meetings, or in the many emails we have received. Civil society organisations such as the National Clients Council, Elke(in), FNV, CNV and the Trade Union Centre for Professionals have sent us many letters. I have noticed in conversations with First Chamber colleagues that everyone has someone close to the family or friends who has a Wajong benefit. The common thread in all these stories is great concern and unrest. What does this law mean for my survival? Should I start supplementing my son's income from retirement if this law makes him suffer? As a 50-pluser with a late diagnosis of autism that has put me backwards my whole life, can I still qualify for a Wajong benefit? I am a vzzp'er with an irregular income and I am really uncertain about what the height of my Wajong will be, so I would rather not ask him not to get very high recovery later. What does defer the treatment of this law for my study and benefit from 1 September 2020? And: if I lose my job because of the corona crisis, is there still an employer who wants to hire someone with disabilities? My group would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to this unrest and concern among a large group of people in the Wajong and their family and friends. Mr. Chairman. What does this law mean for whom? The explanatory memorandum shows that the current legislation is complex and contains a number of bottlenecks that hinder participation for people with Wajong benefits. My group finds it difficult to assess whether the present harmonisation of the Wajong will lead to greater clarity and thus greater security for people in the Wajong. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether our conclusion is correct that this law is not aimed at cutting back on the Wajong. In addition, the D66 Group believes that people are entitled to a reliable government that does not change the rules of the game over and over again. My group therefore wonders how this harmonisation of the Wajong relates to the proposal for a broad offensive that is under way, and whether the evaluation of the Participation Act can lead to legislative changes that could affect the people in the Wajong. We believe that this group has had to live in uncertainty long enough and would like the Secretary of State to be able to provide clarity and certainty. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group certainly also sees the positive aspects of the seven measures contained in this bill. First of all, the D66 Group is satisfied with the measure that you will no longer be cut off on your benefit when you go to college. For young people in the Wajong it is often even more difficult to train. Education is also important for self-development and self-development. The D66 Group still has a question for the Secretary of State on the entry into force of the study scheme. My group wonders whether the Secretary of State sees the possibility of bringing forward the entry into force of the study scheme. In other words, does the Secretary of State see the possibility for the group starting with a study on 1 September to make arrangements for reimbursement of study costs, if necessary with retroactive effect? In addition, the D66 Group welcomes the extension of the retirement period to the retirement age. As a result, Wajongers may always fall back on the Wajong benefit after they have completed their benefit. The members of my group are also satisfied with creating the possibility for people in the OWajong to terminate the benefit at their own request. Finally, we see the clear improvement of the law by the three amendments adopted in the House of Representatives. As a result, the guarantee scheme has been extended to one year, for people with long-term working capacity there is no possibility of earning anything and a total income at least equal to the job wage can be obtained. Yet we are questioning it. The D66 Group also has a few questions about the lack of clarity as to who is making progress and who is falling behind in this legislative proposal. We find it worrying that only after the law enters into force can real insight be given into what the law means on an individual level for every Wajanger. Would the Secretary of State like to respond to my group's concern about this ambiguity? According to the letter of 28 April last by Elke(in), FNV, CNV, Landelijke Clientenraad and VCP, it is clear which people are at risk of going down due to this harmonization: a. any person with an hourly limit whose income consists of part-time pay plus Wajong benefit; b. Young disabled persons using the change in size; c. young disabled persons who are no longer able to use the change in size. Would the Secretary of State like to respond to this for each of these three categories? And would she like to explain what she can and wants to do for groups that are indeed at risk of deteriorating?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u119	I am pleased that Mrs Stienen is asking questions to the Secretary of State who are in line with the concerns we have expressed. I am also very curious about her own view of this. How does she assess the disappearance of the change in size? Does she think that is desirable or undesirable? First of all, I ask her: what are the effects on the Wajangers? And the follow-up question is: does it consider these effects desirable or undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u120	I hear all kinds of noises here, Mr. Chairman, so I need to get my mind together. Mrs. Sent asks what my appreciation is of the disappearance of the change in size. Last weekend, I talked extensively to someone who's in the Wajong, and it drives me crazy that he doesn't know exactly what right he has. The saw tooth and the size change make it very unclear for him. I am therefore very curious to see whether harmonization will help people who lose the change in size to have a better and clearer understanding of their income development. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what this means for the groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u121	I was very curious to hear Mrs Stienen's answer to this, because the disappearance of the change in size means a decline for a certain group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u122	I am not yet convinced of this, because I feel that by harmonising legislation there are other aspects in the law that will compensate for the disappearance. I hope that the Secretary of State can give us some clarity on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mrs. Sent. Your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u124	I conclude that Mrs Stienen has no idea herself and that it is a question for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u125	The D66 Group certainly has an insight into the balance sheet that is being discussed here. I'm still thinking about your pareto optimum. I've just been reading it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u126	Otherwise, if you continue your speech, it will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u127	The question is, of course, whether one person who will not be able to make use of the change in size should be the reason not to allow harmonisation, which means something to many of those 250 000 people, to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u128	Mrs. Sent, your fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u129	Very briefly. How many people use the change in size? Is that one person?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u130	Now I really feel like I'm with the smartest person. I'll look it up and I'll get back to you in second term. Mrs. Sent is always very precise, so I'll find out exactly for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u131	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u132	I'm also very curious who knows exactly. That's what we're gonna find out. Mr. Chairman. The threat of the economic crisis following the Covid-19 pandemic will put many jobs at risk. This could hit the Wajangers group even harder than other employees. After all, they are less flexible in finding a new job. Even if they would like to work in places where there is still work, such as in health care, agriculture, subcontracting or retailing, this is often not possible because of a handicap. You're either gonna see badly or you're gonna hear badly. Then it is even more difficult in the one-and-a-half-metre society than it already is for them. Thanks to the Stoffer/Baudet amendment, the guarantee scheme has been extended to 12 months. As a result, if a new job is found within 12 months, a Wajanger can rely on the guarantee scheme and no income loss is experienced. The argument for this amendment was that two months is not a real deadline for a Wajanger to find a new job. According to the D66 group, this 12-month period is put under pressure by the new reality with the corona virus. I therefore ask the Secretary of State what possibilities it sees in these particular circumstances to make the guarantee scheme crisis-proof, or even extend it to 18 or 24 months, as long as emergency measures are taken for other groups in society. Can the Secretary of State respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. This has just been preached by Mr Van Gurp. You can arrange that by sending back the law and asking for a novelle. The question to Mrs Stienen is: does she also see the possibility of doing this through, for example, additional legislation, just as we now have emergency laws on the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u134	I understand very well that the law states that it is 12 months, so we cannot just put 18 to 24 months here by means of a motion. But I also understand that we are in a very different situation now than we were a few months ago. There appeared to be a lot of creativity possible in a way we could not have imagined at all. And look where we are now. So I ask the Secretary of State what possibilities she sees. That's why I use the word "crisis proof." For me, this measure does not necessarily need to be extended in normal circumstances, but we do not live in normal circumstances. We are now dealing with exceptional circumstances. I believe that this group also deserves special attention, given the effects of the crisis on their circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u135	Very clear. It is about a crisis-resistant measure, so it could or should be extended temporarily if you really want to support that group. I can tell from Mrs Stienen that she is sensitive to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u136	Yes. I'd also like to wait for the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u137	I heard Mr Van Gurp's name. I would also like to comment on that. Previously, Mrs Stienen had a question for Mr Van Gurp on a calculation formula. May I conclude from this that Mrs Stienen also thinks that this formula could be something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u138	We, as a group, have had a lot of discussions in preparation about this alternative formula, also because I really wanted to explore from our point of view what it could do for those groups that might decline. I haven't figured that out yet. I think the Secretary of State has already tried very hard to explain this to us. I share the compliments that have been expressed in her direction. But I am honestly not sure whether this alternative formula is fair to the whole group and whether there are any new inequalities. I find that really unclear. And I understand that it's even more unclear for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u139	I understand that Mrs Stienen is in favour of a possible adjustment, if it is an improvement. You also mentioned customization earlier and that you consider it very important. That customization really needs to be made for everyone. Do you also see a possibility for a so-called discretionary power, whatever formula there is, so that you can make use of it if there are situations where people seem to fall apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u140	A number of questions are now being asked at the same time. As a First Chamber, we can't make any adjustments. However, as a First Chamber, we can call on the Secretary of State to say something to us, which makes us feel that there is a careful handling of the group that may deteriorate, either through an alternative formula or through a different approach. That is why I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State will respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u141	You will continue your speech. Mrs. Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u142	I'll take one, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that Mrs Stienen is calling for attention to be paid to the specific group which is not necessarily helped by the 12-month guarantee scheme, given the current circumstances. It was an amendment in the House of Representatives to go from two to twelve months. As I said, we have no right of amendment. I am very curious to see how Mrs Stienen sees the adjustment of the guarantee period. This cannot be done by means of an amendment. Is there supposed to be a novelle? What is sufficient certainty as far as she is concerned to do something with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u143	I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but I'm in the middle of a motion on the resilience of the guarantee scheme. Perhaps Mrs Sent would like to take part in the break so that we can do this all the way. Then I am very curious whether the Secretary of State can give an explanation for this which does not immediately lead to a novelle, but in which there is some kind of hardness. This may be achieved through monitoring and evaluation. Because if this scheme is adopted, it will enter into force on 1 January 2021. Then there is another 12 months of guarantee for the group we are talking about. So in the worst case scenario, we should be able to do something for people who lose their jobs in the next 18 months. That's what I mean by the word "crisis proof." The guarantee scheme did not have to be extended by my group in normal circumstances, but it did in this circumstance. What is possible about a hardness clause? Can we think of something to do with that? I'm thinking about that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u144	Perhaps just a remark: I do not think that a motion is the right instrument for this. But we're waiting for the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u145	Perhaps the Secretary of State is making a commitment, on which we can be quite happy with each other. I'm going on. I'm still working on the performance. It is also clear that after harmonisation there will be a lot of direction and customization needed to support this group of almost 250 000 people. The question is what this means for the implementation practice, especially at this difficult time when the number of WW applications at the UWV will increase. Moreover, I believe that the UWV is central to the implementation of the NOW scheme, as I have to say from Mr Koolmees. Therefore, the D66 Group asks the Secretary of State to respond to how the increased pressure on the UWV affects the implementation of the current bill. My group calls for special attention to be paid to people in the Wajong who arezzp'er. I do not think that is a very good word,'self-employed without staff', but it concerns people who work independently. For ease, I'll call them "zzp'er." As a zzp'er, you sometimes only knew two years after the end of your financial year what you were entitled to according to De Wajong. When you start your benefit as a zzp'er, there is a chance that you have received too much and have to repay it again next year, or that you need to be re-examined to determine your incapacity for work. When your income is around the minimum social wage, you'd rather not run the risk of having to pay back money. Does the Secretary of State recognize the situation outlined? What changes will then be made to the legislative proposal before us forzzp'ers, my group asks the Secretary of State. Does the Commission also expect the present legislative proposal to reduce the risk of error in calculating income support forzzp'ers? Mr. Chairman. As I said, the harmonisation of Wajong causes a great deal of unrest among Wajongers and their neighbors. Good communication and guidance in the new income situation are crucial for a good implementation. The Human Rights College found that the amount and complexity of measures affecting people with disabilities is high. I understand that all the formulas in the law will not be used in communication. But then it still remains quite difficult for people to know what their rights are and to check whether the height of their Wajong is correct. This law aims to simplify, but the reaction of the UWV and the internet consultations show that there are doubts about the interpretation. In its reply, the Secretary of State has repeatedly stressed the importance of providing accessible and clear information. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State where the direction will be on communication. We would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how communication with companies and employers is regulated and who is responsible for this. My group believes that this side is underexposed and that, because of all the social unrest at a difficult time, it may seem too difficult and complicated for companies and employers to employ people from the Wajong. In addition to the intensification of communication, we also call for attention to be paid to the quality of communication. In my conversations with people in the Wajong it appeared that they sometimes feel disadvantaged by the way in which they are spoken about and not with them. As one of the experienced experts said: "I am not my limitation, I am a restriction, but I simply want to participate in society as well as possible, to have a family and to be able to live in a decent home." Mr. Chairman. This brings me to my last question. As part of the implementation, the UWV is developing a calculation tool.I am thinking: this is English again, but well, a calculation tool is based on the new income scheme. The Secretary of State noted in the reply that the calculation tool can only be used in the run-up to its entry into force, as it depends on the personal situation at the time of entry into force of the bill. This means that when the data on the amount of the guarantee and the guarantee scheme are included, the new income will not be known until the legislative proposal enters into force. The D66 Group believes that this leaves the Wajangers in uncertainty for too long. Can the Secretary of State indicate what steps are being taken in the period prior to the entry into force of the law to communicate the new income situation clearly and clearly to the people in the Wajong? In addition, the Secretary of State indicated in the debate in the House of Representatives that besides the calculation tool within the project Simple Switchen.... English................................................................................................................................................................. This tool is a tool that gives people an indication of what working means for the amount of their supplements and their benefits. It provides insight into their net income. The D66 Group encourages the development of this instrument and asks the Secretary of State for the results of this exploration. Mr President, in summary. The members of the D66 Group think that the harmonisation of legislation is a good idea if this does indeed lead to the improvement of the position of people in the Wajong. At the same time, my group still has a lot of concerns about the uncertainty about who is actually making progress and what are the disadvantages of this harmonisation for people in the Wajong. That is why the D66 Group is looking forward to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u146	Thank you, Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u147	Then I'll suspend the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
