ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is a VSO Progress on follow-up approach to low literacy. Five members have registered to take part in this motion for a resolution debate, in the presence of the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you. How is it possible that in an SO we ask about administrative arrangements with municipalities and that on 8 July the Minister gives an ordinary answer to the case, while in the meantime the UNG disbanded the administrative agreements on 30 June? Why didn't the Minister inform us about this? Mr Kwint asked questions about it and then received an answer: "I am talking to municipalities about the extent to which they still want to implement the administrative arrangements." It is precisely as a coalition that we made 7 million extra annually available for low-literacy. It can't be that it's not gonna work out to make appointments, can it? At the beginning of September, a follow-up meeting was held between the VNG and the Minister. I would like a response from the Minister on all these points and a motion for a resolution in advance for the sake of certainty. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that low literacy is a major problem and therefore the coalition makes 7 million extra available annually;]] [[having noted that more than two thirds of those with Dutch as their mother tongue (NT1), while less than 20% of those with Dutch as their mother tongue participate in the curriculum;]] [[Whereas each low-skilled person must be able to apply for an appropriate teaching offer in each municipality;]] [[calls on the government to inform the Chamber of the administrative arrangements with the municipalities for budgetary treatment 2021, which explicitly set out how the funds for low-literacy are used and how to achieve, in particular, the NT1 group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28760-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Just over a year ago, I tabled a motion to a VAO on low-literacy in which we asked the government to make a clear explanation of each legislative proposal. That motion was embraced by the Minister. She said: if I can read it in such a way that it is an effort to write proposals that we are also making in understandable language, then I certainly want to do so. We have looked at the situation now. I am looking at a bill that we have just received, which is about practical education. I read the introduction to it, which states in the first sentence: "This legislative proposal provides that each school for practical education in principle shall issue to all pupils a school diploma and a corresponding portfolio. This bill also regulates the provision of a school diploma with portfolio in secondary special education to the pupils in the outflow profiles labour market oriented and daily spending." One of the following sentences is then: "Practical education is intended for pupils who have established that an orthopedagogic and orthodatic approach is mostly needed." That's the way it goes. I do understand that it is difficult to make explanations of legislative proposals in comprehensible language, but this is, of course, a proposal that also concerns pupils who will suffer from some of the problems of good reading and writing. I would like to ask the Minister whether she agrees with me that at least this commitment has not yet been fully met and that it would be good to think even more carefully about the understandable language in which it is interpreted, at least in its introduction, in future legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van den Hul of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a very important subject, which we have, fortunately, often had an exchange of views with the Minister in recent years. There's another world to win. I would like to join with the questions and concerns that have just been expressed by Mr Kuik. I have a few additional questions. We read in the Minister's reply: it is precisely at this time that it is important to continue investing in human capital. We are very, very much in agreement with her. The Minister writes that she is going to invest in training opportunities for workers who are vulnerable or who have lost their jobs. For example, it provides free online training and development advice. This is all very important, but is it enough to reach the target group we are talking about today? Much online education nevertheless requires a certain degree of digital literacy or alphabetic literacy. This is a major problem for a large part of today's target group. "The Netherlands learns by" we think is a very good initiative, but how does the Minister ensure that the people who were already difficult to reach are reached by it? We expect that additional steps will be needed and we would very much like to hear from the Minister what additional steps she is going to take, given the current problems in municipalities. We see that many community centers or other sites of low-threshold offer are closed or are only limited to face-to-face contact. How does this relate to the most accessible projects and courses for low-skilled people? How do we keep them literal and figuratively? I would very much like to hear a more detailed explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mrs Van den Hul. The next speaker I shall give the floor is Mrs Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for barging in here like this, but I was at the Council of State. Apparently you can get in, but you can't get out. Okay, I'm sure we'll talk about that again. Low literacy is, as far as we are concerned, an urgent problem. The question is how much paper has been described with the plans and how far we are with them. In other words, how many people have started to read and write better since we put all kinds of things on paper, asked questions and got answers? I don't think very much. Quite frankly: with a motion of course I will not be able to get people to learn and write better, but I do think that with a motion I can once again bring the urgency to the attention of the Minister and hopefully to the Minister the'sense of urgency', to say it in good Dutch, something to increase. I also see now that the motion does not have the language level B1; I apologize for that. I'm gonna practice on that a little better next time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 2.5 million Dutch people are insufficiently skilled in language and mathematics to participate in our society;]] [[noting that low literacy is not only a major problem but also an urgent one;]] [[Whereas more decisiveness and less bureaucracy are important for an effective approach to this;]] [[calls on the Government to resume talks with municipalities and jointly cut the unnecessary bureaucracy out of the plans against low literacy and inform the Chamber before the end of this calendar year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28760-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this debate, it was pointed out that as a Chamber we were surprised and surprised when we heard that the agreements which the Minister would make with the municipalities were terminated to reduce the number of low-literate people. We have asked enlightening questions about this. In the meantime, we have asked for this further together with Mrs Tielen. But now that we are talking about this with the Minister, I would like to ask her whether she will be able to go into something more specific about what exactly it is stuck with. I am the first to criticize, but I honestly do not feel that there is an incredibly unwillingness or a need to get out of this subject. But the question is what it's stuck on. What is this bureaucracy that the municipalities refer to and that they think they're being saddled with? And what are the consequences if this does not ultimately lead to new administrative arrangements? In response to our written questions, the Minister said: the administrative arrangements have been cancelled, we are going to talk again, but in practice this does not have to make so much difference, because part of it simply goes on. Then I have the question of the usefulness of an administrative agreement when no one in the outside world is going to notice any difference when that agreement is terminated or not. Furthermore, I hope that the Minister will soon be able to reach an incredibly ambitious set of agreements with municipalities, because the problem is big and important enough for that. Especially with the crisis that we may be heading towards, I think it is of the utmost importance that people be helped as much as possible and as linguistically as possible to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. Let me see if the Minister is in a position to answer directly the questions put to her and to give an appreciation of the motion tabled. That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr President. It is a good thing that we are discussing low-literacy here today. I can tell you that I am fully aware of the urgency of this. I don't need a motion for that either. Especially at this time we also notice that this group needs all the attention. Just in a crisis like this one you notice how much we lean, for example in communication with people, on written text. This communication, I say immediately to Mrs Westerveld, does not, in fact, meet the demands that must be made of it everywhere. I will deal with this in a moment. Mr. Chairman. It might be good to discuss the administrative arrangements with the Dutch Association of Municipalities. What's not going well in there? In the proposal we had before the administrative agreements we had found a very clear balance between controlling quality and effectiveness on the one hand, and leaving room for the municipalities on the other. We have had a debate on this in the Chamber, and it has also been strongly insisted by the Chamber that it should all be much more nationalized. That is precisely what we are stuck with in the discussions, because some of the municipalities say: "We think that is too much bureaucracy; we already do this in part local, so why do we need an extra national framework over it?" What also complicates the agreements with the UNG is the fact that there is not only a discussion with me but also a discussion among themselves. Municipalities do not agree on this either. That was one of the reasons why the administrative consultation couldn't make any progress, because it's hard for me to talk to a party with two-legged supporters. That needs to be solved, too. In addition, there is a debate on indexation. Municipalities ask me to give them multiannual assurance, but you also know that I only get the opportunity to pay out the so-called lpo a year. If I am going to guarantee to parties that this will happen, then I may create a bigger problem on other parts of the budget when there is no room for that in the national budget. That is also a complicated dilemma for me. By the way, this afternoon the VNG talks about low literacy. So that consultation continues. I shall now come to Mrs Tielen's motion. It is a bit complicated, because it is precisely her fellow group member, Mr Wiersma, who has insisted on all kinds of extra national frameworks. I see Mrs Tielen's motion as a signal that I can take the space in the consultation to come out with the municipalities with some less national frameworks. That is where the municipalities are concerned, with bureaucracy. Some of the municipalities say they're doing the local good. Why should they be subject to all kinds of monitoring requirements that do not help them? Mrs Tielen rightly said that we do not need paper on this issue, but action. One can do that locally very well. I'm gonna take the municipalities and see what's acceptable to them. Everyone wants quality and everyone wants effectiveness, but this does not need to be squeezed into a nationwide monitoring system everywhere. If I get that room from the Chamber, I'm confident I'll be able to get out of it very quickly with the congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	There are two interruptions. Perhaps you could come to an immediate judgment on Mrs Tielen's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	For this reason, I advise against Mrs Tielen's motion. No, sorry, excuse me, I'm giving that motion judgment room. I think we want the same thing, but I told you how I deal with that motion. I do not want to hear from the Chamber: we want more monitoring. You have to give me the space to get out of there in a good and careful way with congregations. Then the motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	I give the floor to Mrs Tielen on the motion. Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	I don't think we'd be smart if we asked for endless excel sheets with a lot of numbers and percentages. That only prevents policy from doing so. I couldn't agree more. At the same time, I also hear what the Minister says about the way in which municipalities look at it. Let the Minister take the space to take practical and common sense steps here, hopefully already this afternoon. I think we can give her that space. I'm gonna take a look at the co-host, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	Who has the need to add something to that. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have another clarifying question. I remember that debate quite vividly. You have to respect the existing local infrastructure to tackle low literacy. One: the appointments must continue. Two, we need to get to work as soon as possible. Three: we want to see what an approach has ultimately resulted in. If municipalities want to do it in their own way, I think that's fine. But if municipalities don't feel like letting the ministry know what they've done over the past year, I think that's a little too much room for the minister. Judging by her facial expression, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yes, as a former alderman, I always say that we should have a little faith in local democracy. I can say from my own experience that municipal councils are extremely keen on aldermen when it comes to what needs to be achieved on this point. I agree with you. As a coalition, we're investing extra in this. That is why we need to show nationwide what these investments are going to do. Are we really gonna get on with this? The previous debate with the Chamber had resulted in a majority holding on to the view that the Minister needed to acquire all kinds of monitoring data. That got me a little jammed up. I understand today that I get room from the Chamber to move a little more at this point. I think that's gonna help us get out fast. I have that intention, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Kuik also had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	There was a very nice programme on which we had a written discussion. What I do not understand is that on 8 July we will receive answers indicating how municipalities will work together, while the administrative agreement was dissolved on 30 June. I don't understand why we don't get that information in that written consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	Before I give Mrs Kuik the official minutes, I would like to say how those documents go through the Chamber. If the UNG sends a signal that the administrative consultation is not going well, it does not mean that at that point I will reach where exactly the problem lies. And there is also some time in between before you receive the answers to a written consultation. So that simply crossed. I can't do it any better than that, but that's how it works. There was a couple of days in between and we already went into the summer. That simply crossed the line. Of course, I think it is my job to report it to you if there are any questions and there is something wrong with the consultation. But, yeah, this just went by each other in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	That may happen, but then I expect us to receive a letter explaining this. They are very good agreements, I think the Chamber believes, and the Minister also thinks, which we can work with, so that everyone can participate in this society. If, as I have heard, there is a bit of confusion on such an important subject in the sense of 'we are not going to implement the agreements', then it is important that the Chamber is included in the question of which points. We have said that we do want to know what objectives are being achieved and whether it is actually what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	I think I just explained that to you. My main focus is on getting through with municipalities as quickly as possible, so that we can get through. We've been working on that. That meeting's gonna take place this afternoon. I am very pleased that I am now also aware that the Chamber gives room to find the right balance between national obligations and room for local policy. Then there is Mrs Kuik's motion for a resolution. I am very prepared to let you know how far we have progressed before the budgetary procedure, which we have already achieved very quickly. So that motion also gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	Excuse me. There is another question from Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	I thought the minister was about to finish. I hear the Minister is having another conversation this afternoon. It would be nice if the Chamber were not informed in long letters, but rather briefly and in writing about the steps being taken. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have just promised that I will inform the Chamber before the budgetary procedure, which is already in a few weeks' time. So, yeah, that's coming up. We're gonna see what's going on. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Hul rightly calls for attention to be paid to reaching the participants. After all, if we have learned one thing from the past few years, it is that this is one of the toughest issues in dealing with low literacy: how to reach that target group in a good way? On this point, for example, there is also a clear opinion from the ESC, which we take into account. In the plans we sent you in the spring, we are also committed to achieving the target group better. That's what we're going to do with a national campaign, but especially with extra language ambassadors. This has proved to be the most effective in the past. Language ambassadors really go to the farmer in a municipality. They're going into the neighborhood, but they're also going to convince people in the workplace. We also use language ambassadors from employers' circles. There are employers who do this incredibly well in the workplace. It is so beautiful if they convince their colleagues of the importance of their workers to remain fit for the labour market at this time, but also of the importance of creating a safe workplace. So I very much agree with Mrs van den Hul that this is crucial to achieving success. The use of ambassadors at local level, for example, can help. So that's what we're going to look at in the regional plans: are you also doing something about reaching the target group? The same applies to the NT1 target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you to the Minister for this clarification. One of the main concerns we have here is the following. Just now that Corona has entered, the odds are actually growing. We also see this in other sectors of formal and informal education. We see in p.o. And so the most vulnerable students will be the victims of that. We also see this in higher education; the Minister knows all about it. We see that there is a danger that those vulnerable pupils will be even more disadvantaged now, for example because online learning is a bigger obstacle. My concern is precisely with this target group. All praise for the efforts of these ambassadors; very well. That is also something we have argued for before. But that is also a form of communication that is less possible because people just run into each other less. So how do we ensure that this inequality of opportunity, even in the field of low literacy, is not further increased by corona? In other sectors, we have seen real extra commitment, additional plans and additional resources. What is the Minister going to do to keep this target group in mind, even now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u27	This is really something you need to do locally. This is what municipalities have to do. From the Hoftoren you do not reach this target group. That is why we believe that this should be local policy. One of the things that is very important here, for example, is to ensure that libraries remain accessible. The libraries have done incredibly well. It has been ensured that this target group could continue to come to the library, even during the corona crisis, and that programmes could continue to follow there. Libraries really put a great deal of effort into that. I've also seen municipalities where people from the library really went on a bike to people's homes to bring material. This is precisely what must be properly regulated in this local approach. It is also important that this network of municipalities should share good practices. Through the corona package of the cabinet for municipalities, additional use of municipalities is also possible here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you. We will be discussing the library in greater detail later. I fully agree with all the praise for those libraries and all the other organisations and voluntary organisations that have been working very hard to reach those people in recent times. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to inform us in writing in due course, later this year, by means of a request through her channels, what the effects of corona on the offer are, especially for this target group. Could she inform us about this later this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u29	Yes, I would like to do that, on the understanding that I do not want to burden municipalities with additional monitoring obligations again. That's kind of the dilemma we're constantly in. I understand that your Chamber is keen to know everything, but we should not get in the way of each other's reporting obligations. So yes, I will just ask the Association of Dutch Municipalities: do you have a picture of that? But at this time, please, let's not move any more paper. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to Mrs Westerveld's questions on understandable communication. I understand very well that she will then take up a text of the explanatory statement and say: this is not how you would like it to be. I could also take up some of Mrs Westerveld's motions and say: this is not how we want it. This is just really very tough and persistent, and it also goes step by step. The first step taken by the cabinet in any case concerns communication around corona. We have said: let us make sure that at this time we do communication about corona in a way that everyone understands and understands, and it happens. That is why, for example, there is a great deal of use of pictograms in this context. And we write short sentences and understandable lyrics. But I also have some work to do here. I always try to understand the explanatory statement myself first. Sometimes that's a job, too. You have the same problem. It is also occasionally laver: is everything in it, is it legal, is it manageable in the legal text? But this has also continued to be a matter of mutual concern. Once again, I see this as an incentive, and I believe that my people are all listening to me in order at least to do better themselves. Mr President, that was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. Mr. Kwint, a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u31	I usually ask my questions with the aim of getting an answer to them. Can the Minister comment on what she said in replying to our written questions? On the one hand, she said "we no longer have administrative agreements" and on the other hand, we do not have to notice so much in practice. How am I supposed to see the weight of such an administrative agreement when in practice it doesn't matter so much, to put it equally domestically? We do not need to discuss this now, as may be in the letter she is going to send about the administrative arrangements; who knows, maybe they will be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u32	Well, look, I can tell you that a lot of things are going on because municipalities themselves are incredibly motivated to do this. We're investing extra in this. What we try to do in a new set of administrative agreements is: can we make better agreements around quality and effectiveness, for example? In that we are now looking for the right balance. But I'll tell you what's going on. For the budget, we will let you know what is going on. I can't promise here that we have actually slapped it in the head, because for that I also depend on another party, which must have the willingness to do so. But at least you will hear more from me before the budget is dealt with. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-4.u34	This brings us to the end of the VSO Progress in developing follow-up approach to low literacy. The vote on the motions tabled is next Tuesday. I'd like to take your fluks on to the next VSO.
