ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35633, Amendment to the Law on the prohibition of fur farming in connection with the early termination of fur farming. I would like to welcome the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before we begin, I would like to thank the Minister and her officials for the speedy response, because there is quite a speedy response. The amendment of the law on the cessation of fur farming puts an early end to mink farming and the Green Left Group welcomes that. This is a costly operation. Much has already been said about this in the House of Representatives, but as far as my group is concerned, the public funds we allocate to this are subordinate to the objective. A continued mink farming would mean that there would continue to be a high risk of spreading and mutating the corona virus. This law removes and prevents possible infections. The law also puts an end to an industry which has been subject to major social criticism for decades, and which no longer fits in with the way we look at the way we deal with animals. Many millions of mink are spared a short and depravable life on wire mesh with the amendment of the law, and that is a beautiful thought. We would therefore like to thank the Minister very much for the early termination of fur farming. First of all, I will deal with fur farming itself, and then with our concerns about the way in which we reacted to the outbreak of corona in the Netherlands. Finally, we also have a few questions about nitrogen, and we end with a request. I shall therefore begin by addressing the suffering called 'pesticide farming'. In her letter on the evaluation of the Animal Law, the Minister states that the definition of "animal welfare" we use here comes from Bracke and says: "Animal welfare is quality of life as an animal experiences itself." This concept takes into account existing scientific, but also societal insights about animal consciousness. This not only means that animals have the right to live in good conditions and not to be uncomfortable, but it also means that they can gain positive experiences and adapt to changing circumstances. There are now excellent animal-free alternatives to fur, and as far as we are concerned it is no longer necessary to use animal material for this purpose. But for the time being, in the Netherlands, we still differ on the extent to which this also extends to animals other than mink, and to what extent this should lead to other prohibitions. However, on the question of whether animals in the bio-industry deserve an animal worth living, I think that is quite an agreement from the left to the right. The Animal Law does not put the intrinsic value of the animal at the centre for nothing, and it shows that we feel a special responsibility for the welfare of animals that we keep for our own gain. And we want to guarantee it too. As has been said, the mink in fur farming is a regrettable short life, and this is far from the usual definitions of an animal-friendly existence. Much further, mink farming was removed from realising an animal life in which animal behaviour was possible, let alone the mink could gain positive experiences by adapting to circumstances. So, as far as we're concerned, it's really good that we're gonna stop doing this. However, this is not only because of the poor and short lives of the minks, but also because of public health. We also welcome the fact that people in the mink farming sector are now finally able to leave behind the public indignation about mink farming. A new phase is emerging for the entrepreneurs involved. Some people want to do something completely different, and we wish them every success. We also believe that it is right that the government should compensate for the costs of stopping, so that those involved have opportunities to think about this and make a plan. For those entrepreneurs who wish to remain active in livestock farming or livestock farming after termination, it is nice to be able to leave behind this controversy, which they have lived in for many years, about how they have earned their income so far. But this isn't gonna happen on its own. I would therefore like to see if I can tempt the Minister today to set up the scrapping and, in particular, the conversion scheme, which, if I understand correctly, is still being adapted, in such a way that former mink farmers, when they opt for a continuation of a life in animal husbandry, will never be able to put themselves in the position of becoming part of a public debate on animal welfare. My question to the Minister is therefore: is the Minister prepared to shape this new scheme in such a way that ambitious animal welfare criteria are part of it, so that we are sure that the rabbits, chickens or pigs that might replace the mink will have a good life, so that we are also sure that the former mink farmers will not become part of a controversy in the future? After all, we will continue to be closely monitored in the future because of the large public funds that we are now putting in place for the accelerated ban. I'd like a response. Then there is the more general relationship between animal husbandry and animal diseases. Nerts are not the only animals that need to be disposed of at the moment because of an infectious animal disease. Since 5 November almost half a million hens have been killed to reduce the spread of the avian influenza virus. And avian influenza, that's the avian flu, is also a zoonoses. The World Health Organisation warns that this too can lead to outbreaks of new viruses among humans. In addition, outbreaks of zoonoses are more common than average Dutch think. For years we have known about the risks and the connection with intensive livestock farming. In 2004, WSPA warned that the avian influenza virus is spreading and mutating more easily. The conditions in intensive livestock farming, with many animals with one-sided genetic composition, who make a lot of contact with each other and who come into contact with people, are excellent breeding sites for new viruses. Keeping fewer animals in better conditions can reduce the risk. That is why we are calling for animal welfare to be included in the conversion scheme. We really need to do everything we can to minimise the risk of a new pandemic. Corona taught us that. The scale and manner in which we keep animals in the Netherlands makes our country a major risk area for the outbreak of new zoonoses. This gives us a particular responsibility to act quickly when there is an outbreak. The experience of the current covid pandemic shows that we are not yet able to fulfil this responsibility. The way in which the cabinet acted in 2020 is, frankly, a cause for serious concern. These concerns are summarized in the question of whether the cabinet is sufficiently motivated by the general health interest in the event of an outbreak, and then whether we are responding sufficiently alertly from the precautionary principle rather than on the basis of established facts. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance notes that the OMT and the cabinet have done most of the latter. The dynamics between them seem to have always been based on positive scenarios and, as a result, prudent public trade towards the sector. I am thinking of the estimation that the contamination among mink probably could not cross over to humans, or the estimation that contamination of humans would probably remain on the farm alone and the estimation that contamination among mink would probably not lead to mutations of the virus. All these assessments turned out to be too optimistic afterwards. The actions of the government were the same, causing many people on and around the mink farms to become infected with corona. In the end, the material effects of this seem to have remained limited worldwide, but let us note that this could have ended quite differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u4	The D66 Group has drawn up an action plan to reduce the risks of zoonoses, precisely because the risks are indeed large and can have enormous effects on human lives. How does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance view this action plan? They are very concrete things such as stopping international trade in wild animal species. That's one action, there's more in it. How do you view this agenda and could you agree with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u5	Mrs Kluit, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u6	From GroenLinks we could very well agree with that. I think it is necessary to take a broad look at what is actually going on in the Netherlands first: what risks do we run and what scope for action do we have? What is a real roadmap if an outbreak occurs? I am going to go into this more fully later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u7	That's fine. The action plan also says what is needed, but it is good that you take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u9	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u10	So it could have ended quite differently, was my last sentence. For example, there could have been a deadly mutation that spread quickly before we really knew it. Then we would have had a very big problem. I would like a response from the Minister as to whether she shares this view. In the House of Representatives, D66 advocated the precautionary principle in case of outbreaks, as recommended earlier after Q fever. I think that is an important point. In replying to D66 in the debate, the Minister went through it a little quickly, so my group needs a more in-depth answer. Why was the first outbreak on farms not immediately followed by the most far-reaching measure, namely the removal of holdings? It is strange to the GroenLinks group that we in the Netherlands seem to consider the importance of 140 companies more important than taking it for granted. Can the Minister also reflect in this Chamber on this state of affairs? What prevented the Minister from taking the most far-reaching measure first? Can she comment on the considerations she has encountered in this regard? In any case, we would like to see lessons learned from this. That is why I would like to answer the following questions. What is the Minister's plan, given everything that's happened, and what's going to happen? Is it not time to carry out a thorough independent study of the risks and behaviour of zoonoses in relation to animal holdings in the Netherlands? In the debate, the Minister referred to a letter from the cabinet in this area. It was short notice. I've been looking, but I haven't been able to find it. It may be up to us, but I would like more information and answers to these questions. Then there's a whole different subject: nitrogen. Economic operators may continue to use the nitrogen duties they have in the future, despite the early termination of mink farming by the public authorities. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that this is impossible at this time. The economic operators concerned are well compensated. The loss of income will be compensated, assistance will be provided in the demolition or conversion of the stables, assistance in the staff's transition compensation and 7 out of 10 years have been able to benefit from the income that was used as compensation for the entry into force of the Pelsdier Farming Act. These resources should be sufficient to build a new future. On top of that, there is the question of nitrogen duties. The main thing is that GroenLinks finds it odd that, if we decide to close early, these rights will not be taken immediately. After all, if we close a factory, for example because of climate policy, Nuon cannot hold those licensed nitrogen emissions as negotiable. Why would that be any different with a mink keeper? Can the Minister explain why she did not immediately take the nitrogen duties? The nitrogen crisis is a major problem. Is she willing to do this after all? A second question is: how is the Minister going to work with municipalities and provinces to prevent those former mink farms near Natura 2000 sites being transformed into new nitrogen peak chargers, which we will have to buy out again in a number of years as a result of the nitrogen approach? GroenLinks assumes that we will find the minister on our side in this. How is she gonna prevent this? I'd like a response. Finally. With corona we see how a zoonosis can destroy ordinary life. Animal welfare is also increasingly on the agenda. Farmers are constantly exposed in a negative way by these developments. This is due to the lack of a broad understanding in the Netherlands of what the farm in animal husbandry is actually doing. As a result, farmers are publicly vulnerable if there are abuses or even normal practices in the publicity. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned about the polarisation around but also by the farmers. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is time for a broader discussion on the future of animal and livestock farming in the Netherlands. What do we consider acceptable forms of animal husbandry? What do we really want farmers to produce? Are those milk powder and furs for China, like now, or are those gruttos in Friesland? How should citizens and outsiders contribute to this? What's their role in this? It is increasingly important that loudspeakers hear each other and come to a common image. As far as we are concerned, there is also an explicit role for the government to act as a connection to such a conversation, not only behind the scenes, but precisely in the public debate. How do we get a good and in-depth discussion about the scale and manner in which we keep animals, the GroenLinks group wonders. These questions are fundamental in nature. They affect a large group of people and so far such a wide-ranging dialogue is not getting under way. But without dialogue and a better understanding in society, farmers remain the headliners. We are therefore wondering whether the Minister is prepared to take the initiative for a national dialogue, in which society is talking in full terms about what we find in the Netherlands an acceptable and future-proof animal farming and what the ways to get there are. Perhaps the Minister will say: I have circular agriculture, my own vision of the future. Those are beautiful documents and they contain good elements. That's not really what I mean. In society, there is actually a need for a big conversation, so that people understand better what we are doing, where we want to go, but also what the role of everyone is in it. Is the Minister therefore prepared to initiate a reflection process in which these questions can be put in peace and discussed with each other? So it is not a policy plan, it is a discussion. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to receiving the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I fully agree with that. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since 2013, there has been a ban on fur livestock farming in the Netherlands. The PVV also voted in favour of the ban in the context of animal welfare. The long transitional period, ending on 1 January 2024, allowed mink owners to continue their activities. Partly because of this long term, part of the accompanying policy of the relevant 2013 bill, the fur animal farming was not eligible for compensation. After all, the sector had eleven years to recoup investment. The Hoge Raad also shared this view and considered that there was a proper balance between the interests of fur animals farmers and the general interest. However, this balance is now being disrupted. The coronavirus also struck within the mink farm. With a view to public health, dozens of infected farms were removed to extinguish sources of infection. Of the remaining companies, all mink have now been peeled. Actually, the slaughter started at the end of the mink farm. In order to prevent further outbreaks, the Minister is now presenting the proposal to permanently stop fur livestock farming in the very short term, even before the next production cycle of 2021. Also fur animal keepers need to be guaranteed quickly, especially now that it looks like a previously given security will end up in the trash. They lose a total of unexpected three years of production, thus reducing their payback period for investments made. The fact that this bill now provides for a disadvantage compensation for the fur animal farmers is therefore reasonable. Mr. Chairman. A scrapping and conversion scheme is provided for in the previous legislative proposal Ban on fur farming from 2013. The Minister comes with an adjustment of this subsidy scheme at a later date. It sounds promising that the scrapping subsidy would be extended to cover the cost relief. This goes from 50% to 100%. A contribution of its own will no longer stand in the way and the aim, the prevention of the destruction of the landscape, can be achieved if this Minister is in a position to guide this arrangement through the European Commission. The Netherlands is under the carpet. The European Commission must authorise this aid. Now the Netherlands is a big net contributor, but it remains an uncertain factor. According to the Brussels dictatorships, aid for the closure of production capacity is not allowed if the production capacity is already closed or if such closure is inevitable, and that is the case now. Can the Minister convince the European Commission and guarantee that this new scrapping and conversion scheme will actually be implemented? If so, at what time? I'd like a response from the Minister. Then the other objective of this scrapping and conversion scheme is to start up new operations. Are other business activities possible in practice? Firstly, we are in the Netherlands with the nitrogen terror. The Minister has endeavoured to make it possible for the nitrogen duties released from the closure of fur animal farming to be partly re-used for new business activities. However, the minister was flagged back by the Council of State. Well, that's what you get with those left-wing green political appointments in the highest court. Let me get this straight. The Netherlands is in the nitrogen lock. For almost all activities, nitrogen comes around the corner. The nitrogen duties released at the time of termination of the fur animal farming should not automatically be used for the new business activities. They want to return linea recta to the weak nitrogen-sensitive nature, and that in a fertile delta. That's asking for trouble. In this context, how does the Minister see a start for mink farmers with a different type of business? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the entrepreneur also has to do with a zoning plan. A fur animal holding is subject to the agricultural destination, including the term "intensive livestock farming." As a general rule, municipalities also use customisation, in the sense that it explicitly refers to the keeping of fur animals/mints. For other business activities, the zoning plan should be amended. The question arises as to the extent to which local authorities participate in this. They can keep the place locked, because local authorities are also looking for the scarce nitrogen rights created. Are they going to participate in the allocation of nitrogen space to those entrepreneurs who want to make a start? Are they involved in changing the zoning plan? Before you know it, they'd rather stomp an azc out of the ground. Let's not forget, when very building Holland was flat, an azc could be built in Gilze-Rijen for 40 million. So you never know which way it's going. Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to the arrangement. In order to be able to effectively implement this scheme, coordination with local authorities leading to cooperation is a prerequisite. Otherwise, the situation may arise that governments will point to each other and, worse still, hide behind each other. This government wants to represent a trustworthy government, right? It cannot be that the Minister sends the fur animals farmers into the forest with an opinion. In the note following the report of 11 December last, the Minister writes: "I have recommended fur animal owners to discuss with their congregation the possibilities they have at the location of fur animal farming." That's too easy. Apparently, the minister's got a pretty good sense of where the shoe is wringing. She passes the problem on to the fur animal keepers. Mr. Chairman. There's a problem. That needs to be solved in an integral way. The PVV Group therefore has the following urgent request to the Minister: it must ensure that local authorities participate in the possibility of new business activities at the premises of fur animal farming, if the fur animal keeper wishes to make a start. If that is not the case, then the conversion scheme is a pacifier and swim fur animal keepers in a trap, which they can no longer come out of. In order to reinforce this request, I shall table the next motion on behalf of my group. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan and Mr Ton van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legislative proposal Amendment to the Act on the prohibition of fur farming in connection with the early termination of fur farming provides for a scrapping and conversion scheme and that the implementation of this scheme requires the cooperation of local authorities;]] [[Whereas a condition for the development of new business activities at the site of the former fur animal farming is that the zoning plan should be amended;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that local authorities cooperate in enabling new business activities to be carried out at the sites of fur livestock farming, if the fur animal keeper wishes to make a start,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35633-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u13	So much for my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I would like to give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. The present bill was unanimously supported in the House of Representatives. Normally that is a reason to dismiss a proposal in the First Chamber as a hammer piece, but for that the present bill has too much meaning. There is now an end to a practice on which an initiative proposal is based. For this reason alone, this proposal to end fur farming early deserves the attention of this Chamber. But above all because this initiative proposal puts an end to a practice in which... This is not an initiative proposal. It's your bill. The basis of this early termination is an initiative legislative proposal. It'll work. Especially because this bill, as a follow-up to the initiative proposal, puts an end to the practice whereby minks who run around in a natural environment for three to five years, kept for breeding, do not grow older than six months, kept alive by a porridge of offal in a wire-iron cage, which makes everything that a mink would do in a natural environment impossible. For more than 100 years, minks were bred on an industrial scale in the Netherlands, making it the top three of world production. The mink stood on the ladder of the bio-industry at the bottom, still under the miserable conditions of chickens, calves, pigs and turkeys. And why? I quote the Van Ameyde report: "Because of decadent soft texture, unique shine, light weight and durability." That's why. Mr. Chairman. That is why my former SP colleague Krista van Velzen's own-initiative proposal, which also followed by Harm Evert Waalkens and the PvdA, was not a day too early. It was high time to put an end to this practice. The result of their efforts is now three years earlier than expected. What is it then for these initiators to see that they stood with empty hands and empty pockets? Now there's plenty of funding. I spoke briefly to Krista van Velzen today. She said, "Well, if only I had that money then, that ten-year period would never have come. Perhaps this is a good case to provide the cabinet with sufficient financial resources, rather than that the initiators have to take care of it themselves, as has happened with the ten-year period. In this case, the ten-year deadline would not have been met. Mr. Chairman. I do have one more question. There is no debate today on whether the fur animal farming will end, but when this happens; that is what we are talking about today. The COVID-19 crisis is already forcing us to act in the interests of public health, but this action would have been more appropriate with regard to the SP. The risk of contamination and spread on mink farms was quickly identified. That is why the SP in the Lower House called for an immediate reorganisation of fur livestock farming early on. In our view, the government has taken a great risk, because it could have been quicker. It's been over seven months. Why wait so long is my question to the Minister. Were there only one more harvest of these animals for financial reasons, or were there other reasons? Mr. Chairman. Having said that, however, I can say that the SP is happy that we see an early end to these horrible fur farms in our view. I have a number of questions about the scheme itself. The legislative proposal is not very complicated and it is also limited in scope. However, this does not apply to the consequences and implementation of this legislative proposal. In law it is stipulated that the prohibition is lawful. The long-term transitional arrangements have allowed entrepreneurs to reduce their business activities. It is therefore perfectly logical and follow-up that part of the damage suffered falls under the entrepreneurial risk. I understand, at least, that is how I interpret the Minister's arrangement and its implementation, that the Minister is compensating on the broad side in order to increase legal sustainability. I'll just say that as a lawyer. Is this true? And if so, does the Minister recognise that a more austere implementation might also have been legally possible and legally sustainable? And how should I see in this light the motion of GroenLinkslid Bromet, adopted in the Lower House, which puts the entrepreneurial risk at 20%? The top of the lower limit, as Van Ameyde determined. Will this be implemented in practice for this scheme? After all, the Minister has rejected this motion in the Lower House, but it has nevertheless been adopted. I may have missed it, but the sequel is not clear to me. Mr. Chairman. As a result, I have a few additional questions on the implementation of the compensation scheme. To begin with, questions have been asked in the Lower House about possible fraud with the number of animals. The Minister replied to questions on this subject that "if the ban is not complied with, the regular enforcement instruments can be applied, such as administrative recovery sanctions or criminal prosecution." Now I've cut up more often with that axe, so I'd like to ask the Minister the question, and also get the Minister's promise that as a starting point in this enforcement, it's also going to apply that illegally obtained benefit will be taken away. This is something that goes with it, not only an administrative sanction or punishment, but also the benefit obtained by fraud. This is fundamentally different from excluding compensation, which the Minister has said is contrary to the right to compensation. I get that. I would like the Minister's clear commitment that it is clear in advance that fraud will not pay. On that point, I have a supplementary question, namely the number of animals authorised. The Minister now says that the number of animals authorised is the basis for compensation, but is the compensation only taken into account the number of animals included in the licence, or is the number of animals actually present and kept considered, with the maximum, of course, the number of animals authorised? To clarify: did each holder keep the maximum number of animals authorised? If not, what will the compensation be based on? If the maximum number of animals authorised is not kept, the actual damage is also lower. Are there records of each individual company? Are those in the NVWA's order? Has there been any check on the ejaculation? How can we be sure that all mothers have actually been removed and not held back or sold? I'd like a response. I am familiar with the capacity problems of many national inspection services, including NVWA, but I want to make sure that the NVWA is able to bring this early termination to a successful conclusion. I would therefore like to ask again whether we can be assured that fraud has no chance of success. It's about money. A lot of money. Money that we could have used in a different way in times of crisis. I therefore find it incomprehensible, to say the least, that there is no idea whether these entrepreneurs have made use of other support schemes for the COOVID-19 pandemic. If the Minister says 'yes, I don't know, because it's too gross', is she prepared to at least ensure that entrepreneurs will be asked to do so and that they will have to explain that truthfully when they have used it? That means something for the damages settlement. I would like to hear a further clarification and commitment from the Minister on this point. I regret that with this regulation we did not immediately create a win-win situation for nitrogen, especially in view of the discussion that we are about to have in this Chamber, at least if tomorrow we get a majority in the House of Representatives. Can the Minister explain again, also in view of the measures to be taken in the area of nitrogen, why does he not choose to take that step now? Considering that the Council of State sees room for a netting arrangement if the nitrogen space benefits nature. I would like a reply from the Minister to the question as to why, in order to remain in the terminology, we cannot now take this cow by the horns. I am also pleased that the Minister's written reply indicated that there was no precedent for other sectors based on the specific approach of mink farming, since there was already a ban on breeding in the foreseeable future. I think it is good to establish that again here today, and I also think that there is a substantial and distinctive difference with other sectors, and with that a different legal position. I think it is really good to say that again. (NL) Mr President, I conclude by concluding by saying that I am glad to see that fur farming in the Netherlands is ending so quickly. I would therefore like once again to thank the authors of the previous regulation, Krista van Velzen and Harm Evert Waalkens, for their initiative proposal. The SP was pleased with the termination of the fur animal farming and the accompanying animal suffering by 2024 and is even more pleased that this will end by 2021, however sad the pandemic is as a result. Maybe all the way to the end: I have looked at the website of the Dutch Federation of Edelpelsdierenhouders. I notice that everyone here is talking about "peeling." I looked that up in Van Dale, but I couldn't find it. In my opinion, it's just a euphemism for skinning, which is the draining of the skin. So "peeling" is not an existing verb, but I see it popping up everywhere. I see it in the Ministry's papers. It could be me. I didn't find it in Van Dale. I think it's just a euphemism. I have seen other things there, such as the fact that mink farming derives its right to exist from the demand for pelts. I can invent a lot of things that could derive their right to exist from a question, but of which we all say, no. Fortunately, we have done the same in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u17	Mr President, I see that my time is running, so I am going to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u18	That's what I'd do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u19	The cessation of fur farming in the Netherlands serves both public health and animal welfare. As far as the latter is concerned, the holding of fur animals for these animals cannot, as far as my group is concerned, stop fast enough. It's animal cruelty. Stopping three years earlier is a profit for millions of mink, at least in the Netherlands. Let us hope that abroad too uses the corona crisis to ensure not only public health, but also to tackle animal welfare in the long term. To stay abroad: the risk to public health, of course, does not stop at the border. That is why I ask the Minister to inform us again about the state of affairs in the neighbouring countries. Can the Minister ensure that a company that is now stopping in the Netherlands does not set up new stables just across the border in March? Because then, of course, that reservoir of viruses also remains for the Netherlands. If this danger has not been resolved, can the Minister tell us what measures it has taken and is going to take to address the danger to public health at European level and, in particular, with our neighbouring countries? Mr. Chairman. The question of compensation has already been raised today. I would also like to ask the Minister how it is ensured that the cumulation of measures does not result in disproportionate compensation. A reliable government must compensate for the damage it has caused in a reasonable manner. I trust that if this fee is too low, the entrepreneurs concerned will call the bell. The past has shown that they know how to find this path. But who is monitoring the overall package of measures if this is disproportionate? This concerns the full picture, including the seven years that have already elapsed following the introduction of the Peel Animal Farming Act, which already anticipates a ban by 2024, including marketable nitrogen deposition rights, including adjacent subsidy schemes. My group's concern is that it will become totally disproportionate, especially if you sell it against other sectors hard hit by the corona crisis, where very different and much more sober standards seem to be put in place. The Minister explained the predicamental difference in the treatment of these sectors with the distinction between temporary and definitive measures, but is this true? The ban would become final on 1 January 2024. So the advance is temporary, namely three years. The total transitional period of 11 years, which was also decided by the Supreme Court that there was no need for compensation because of the time limit, is reduced by three years. Is it not more logical to base the compensation on three elevenths of the period? Can the Minister explain again why this has not been chosen or at least not followed the Bromet motion, which includes 20% business risk? In my group's view, the opinion on the disadvantages compensation aspects of 18 November this year is too limited and does not include all the relevant aspects of the cumulation of measures. That is why the question of whether the Minister for Agriculture is already aware of the overall package, as I have just said. If so, can she give it to you? If not, does it want to ensure that this insight comes soon? What is the government going to do if it turns out to be totally disproportionate? In what way can Parliament be given a timely insight and intervention if it considers that the measures are not in balance? Finally, enforcement. Can the Minister promise that the compensation will not be merely a paper operation, but that the process will actually be physically controlled? Mr Janssen has already mentioned this. Already there are rumors that vacant stables are being presented as production stables. What measures is the Minister going to take to prevent fraud or rule-over and to achieve fair and objective compensation? Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of Labour is pleased that this law will finally put an end to fur farming in the Netherlands with careful attention to fur breeders. Let us hope and encourage that it does not stay with the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Finally, Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am going to discuss a bit of a difficult subject today, but I dare to discuss it with this Minister. I am talking about the tension between morality and justice and this minister is from a party, of which I know from my contacts with at least the members of the First Chamber that it does not prevent the tension between morality and justice and thinking about it. Mr. Chairman. It is a very important subject, especially for the Group of the Party of Animals. I tell you: I have an impressive book with texts, documents and photos in my closet. The title of that book is The Nazi Killing Factories. It gives a picture of the factory that was run in that black period of history to destroy Jews and other unworthy lives, to achieve profit, namely a pure-bred society. Such undertakings to kill life were the result of a historical aberration of ethical awareness. We can be brief about that. We can also be brief about how, after the Nazis were defeated, the civilized countries have dealt with this aberration. The organization of that gruesome enterprise had not been prohibited in the laws as the Nazis had established. On the contrary, the Eichmanns and other managers of those companies simply implemented the rules. What was formally presented as binding regulations by the Nazi state, was later exposed as injustice in the Nuremberg trials. Mr. Chairman. Morality triumphed and put aside what had been formally applied as justice at that time. In civilized society there are ethical principles, a right-wing awareness, and they were given priority. This made it possible for officials who claimed that they had complied with the rules in force to be considered criminals. Mr. Chairman. In a community of law, what is perceived as a right sometimes rises above what is presented as a right in formal rules. That, Chairman, is civilisation! Stopping the mink-killing factories is also a sign of civilization. The right to gas millions of animals, purely to create beauty, has now been exposed as unethical by our society. It took us a long time to recreate our awareness of the law at that point. With the ban on fur farming, the recognition of what we as a civilized society perceive as injustice has been brought into the formal domain of justice. But, Mr President, the tension between law and morality is once again raised in this draft law, and the Party for Animals would like to draw attention to that. To make it palpable how much tension is part of our right-wing consciousness as civilized people, I started my introduction to that black page in history. I could also have mentioned slave trade and other practices of oppression and exploitation based on man as 'fat-I', on the aberration of the mind that 'fat-I' people can create for themselves the right to stand above other living beings to treat them as objects, as objects with which one can obtain profit and enjoyment. That so-called right of that 'Thick-I' will always have to expose a civilized society that upholds morality as injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u22	I really can take a punch, you know, 'cause I'm really used to it. But Mr. Nicolaï is talking about killing factories from the Nazi era and we are talking about killing Jews, gypsies, gays and other unwanted people in that society. You compare these people, Mr. Nicolaï, to mink, but don't you do the same? You compare people to mink. Don't you do the same thing as the Nazis, who compared Jews to rats and mice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u23	I don't quite understand the question. What I have expressed, even in the last part just now, when you were standing there, is that what concerns us here is an aspect that concerns our morality. Morality is what we consider ethical. If we find it ethically irresponsible that people or animals are treated like objects and as objects and then killed, on a scale that allows you to say that they are killing factories, you know that too, it is about millions of minks, then we have a subject where morality is very high on the agenda. That is the subject I wanted to raise here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u24	You may say that you want to put that morality on the agenda, but I think it is a personal opinion that you do not do it properly in this way, and that only creates aversion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u25	That's an opinion. It's possible. I have a different opinion. When I finish my story, I think Mrs Faber will also understand why I started this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u26	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u27	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister about this tension between justice and morality. What we have before us is a draft law which will result in Dutch taxpayers, nationals of civilised societies, paying EUR 200 million to operators of murder factories. Mr. Chairman. At many parties, we feel the inconvenience. Why should such a huge amount be allocated to companies which are currently simply to be closed under the covid measures, while catering companies and event organizers also experience the pain of closure? Is the closure not just to be welcomed, in the context of our ethical awareness? The government claims that these murder factories have a formal legal claim to compensation. But is that sufficient justification? I'm also looking at Mrs Faber, because this is what my core story is about. Is it ethical to offer €58 per gassed animal?It is tens of millions of animals because a murder factory has to close sooner and the entrepreneur misses his profits? Profits that would result from an unethical practice in the eyes of Dutch society, the end of which had already been announced. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister about the woman: does she think this is ethical? And that is a question other than whether a legal claim can be constructed under the law in force. Shouldn't this be a formal right for morale? In other words, should morality not lead to the approximation of law? What's the Minister's moral position on this? It is a difficult question, but at times like these, we in politics should not avoid the tension between morality and justice and choose a position in it. Mr. Chairman. Even when we look at the established legal rules, the so-called positive law, discomfort and disbelief comes to light. What can we see? One. There is no doubt that the ethical desire to speed up the end of mink breeding is not the basis of this design, but the protection of society against the spread of the coronavirus. Two. In the absence of a ban on fur farming, in order to implement the opinion of the OMT, the prohibition on the operation of mink breeding plants, which act as a virus reservoir and virus spreader, would simply have been adopted as a corona measure. Three. It is also certain that it will take at least one to two years for society to be sufficiently immune to the virus. Four. In fact, now that the breeding operations have been cleared of the virus, it is clear that no entrepreneur will resume operation before that end date of 31 December 2023. Moreover, the Government expressly acknowledges this in the explanatory memorandum. Any rebooting of the decommissioned farms would be regarded as pointless. It is clear that the breeding operations are closed for health reasons and will not open after that, because the OMT wants to prevent the survival of a virus reservoir. For other companies which are closed under corona measures, there is no legal provision for a right to loss compensation. Mr. Chairman. Our group asked that question, but it did not receive an answer. Why is the closure not based on the temporary law COVID-19, possibly after amendment of that law? We would have saved ourselves a 200 million compensation for unethical practices. The mink-farming industry would not be preferred to other entrepreneurs affected by corona measures. Our group wants a clear answer to that. Murder factories are rewarded here without any need whatsoever. For the sake of clarity, Article 1 of the First Protocol ECHR only comes into view because it has been chosen to amend the end date of the ban on fur farming. But my question is: could not the other way have been applied, possibly after amendment, of the temporary Covid-19 law? A clear question; please give me a clear answer. Mr. Chairman. The application of the law in force also raises questions. Not about details, as fellow Members have pointed out here, but rather about the substance of the question of whether compensation should be given. The Minister expressly acknowledges that the outbreak of animal diseases and the taking of measures against them do not give rise to the right to compensation. Pursuant to Article 15 of the Animal Health and Welfare Act, the Minister has designated the coronavirus as infectious animal disease in Article 5 (g) of the Implementing Regulation. According to the report's note, 2,793,000 mink were removed from 70 holdings under that law because of that disease. The note following the report recognises that the outbreak of animal diseases is part of the entrepreneurial risk, so there is no question of compensation for this. But what does it turn out to be? However, according to Article 5, third paragraph, of the policies applicable to the disadvantage compensation, the entrepreneurs of those 70 companies still receive a disadvantage compensation of €13 per mink. That is 30 million compensation which they are not entitled to according to the government's principles. An unjust and reprehensible gift at the expense of the taxpayer. Is the Minister prepared to change the policy rule in that respect? I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. Regardless of whether it is morally justified to reward unethical murder factories with EUR 200 million, the justice of such a measure can also be addressed in the legal domain. Now, so the moment when the early date of termination is introduced, there is no prospect at all of a real possibility of operating fur livestock farming in 2021, 2022 and 2023. After all, the OMT doesn't want virus tanks. There was therefore no prospect of income under the rules on the right to compensation. How can there be a situation in which fur livestock farms suffer income losses as a result of closure on 1 January 2021, if there was no prospect of income? This applies in particular to the 70 breeding operations which were cleared under the Health and Welfare Act for Animals. Moreover, it is clear that the prevention of the spread of the coronavirus has formed the basis for the early closure. Given the lack of compensation for undertakings affected by corona measures, these disadvantages are evidently included in the normal social risk by the government at the present time and do not result from a so-called special burden. The justification of Article 5, second and third paragraphs, and Article 3 of the policy rule is not appropriate in this respect. Is the Minister prepared to conduct an investigation into whether these provisions need to be adapted? I am also considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. Is it ethical to distribute EUR 200 million to operators, who could continue their morbid exploitation elsewhere with that bonus? I also have a question for the Minister, who is not primarily concerned with the law in force, but with how she looks at it in the context of ethics. I'd like her response to that point. In that context, has it considered whether it is legally possible to impose on the decision to compensate for losses the condition that the amount of compensation received should not be used to set up fur livestock farming elsewhere in order to return to income while the Dutch taxpayer has already reimbursed it? I do not see in the law any provision prohibiting such a condition. Is the Minister prepared to attach such a condition to compensation decisions? I would like a response from the Minister on all these points. I am also considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u28	I would like to ask Mr Nicolaï a question. At the beginning of your contribution, you made the rather distasteful comparison with Nazi Germany, the killing machines and the killing factories. You compared that to the mink farms. I don't really understand where that came from, but if that's the way you look at it, I don't understand why you don't mind clearing mink. You'd have to take the minks to hospitals, wouldn't you? Shouldn't we be trying to make the minks better? Then we should not make the comparison with morbid killing machines in one breath and talk very soberly about sick animals that need to be disposed of and how you deal with them. I see some kind of contradiction in your contribution, which I can't quite rhyme with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u29	It's not distasteful. I have, once again, if I may...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u30	If you'll keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u31	Yes. I have indicated that what played in the very big, can also play in the less large. That's the tension between morality and justice. I have asked the Minister not to give an answer in the sense of whether, under the First Protocol and so on, there is a claim for compensation. I have asked whether the Minister thinks it is ethical to give compensation for what we, as a party, think is at least murder factories. That's one. Then the second. This bill isn't about clearing up. They've already been cleared. This bill deals with the situation in which they have already been removed. If nothing happens in the next three years, should we, as taxpayers, give 200 million rewards to those people, those operators? That's what the bill's about. And that's what I was working on when you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u32	But then my point will remain, won't it? You say on the one hand that it is morbid, and on the other hand you do not dedicate a single word in your entire contribution that clearing the minks would be a problem. You are now putting a sort of legal end to that, but from someone who starts his contribution in this way, I would have expected him to go a little bit more into that. I just have to tell you, I think it's a distasteful comparison. I didn't want to let this go without making that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u33	You may find it distasteful, but I'm not gonna explain again that what happens in big, can happen in small. That's one. Secondly, the minks that have been cleared have been removed because otherwise you or your relatives would have probably contracted corona. Our party has fought from the very beginning against the breeding of mink. That is why we are very pleased with this bill. So you don't have to tell me to talk about clearance. The clearing happens because there's breeding, and we're against breeding. We always have been. And the clearing that took place under the law happened because those animals lit each other up and there was therefore a danger to public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u34	If you take your initial statement seriously, you cannot speak this lightly about clearing mink. You say that the mink have been removed because of the health of the people. If you were to align people and animals in this way, you could never agree to the disposal of animals and you should have said: we should have saved the minks, we should have cared for them and we should have made sure that they could all have survived. What you're saying doesn't add up. Once again, I say that the word "disgusting" is not really the right word, but the equation you make is out of proportion to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u35	Mr. Nicolaï, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u36	Mr President, I will conclude. In the documents, neither those of the government nor those of the opinions, attention is paid to the fact that our ethical awareness of animal treatment has been reflected in the field of law more than five years ago. Article 1.3 (1) of the Animal Law lays down the fundamental principle: "The intrinsic value of the animal is recognised." In that legal recognition it is decided that the intrinsic value of mink, regardless of its usefulness to man, is recognized and that mink breeding is not only ethically reprehensible, but should also be regarded as injustice? If it is decided to stop mink-farming, so act that anno is now considered unlawful, will the world not be turned upside down if society rewards the entrepreneurs who are now seen as accomplices of evil in the domain of justice and morality? This brings me back to the beginning of my story: a civilized society maintains its moral principles and adapts the right to them. A civilized society thus sees such a reward and lays down that starting point in the applicable rules. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the unjustified and unjustified remuneration for bad behavior? I am also considering a motion on this point. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Please stand still for a moment, because I would like to say on behalf of Mrs Faber and Mrs Huizinga that I know you as a very good debater, who does not need to use examples that are very offensive to people. That is also well expressed by your colleagues. I would suggest that you make your point next time when it comes to the tension between morality and justice, on the basis of another example. I'll give you some thought to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't suppose I can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u39	I suggest we finish with this. Thank you. I'll suspend for dinner until 7:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u40	The next item is the continuation of the examination of legislative proposal 35633, Amendment to the Act on the Prohibition of fur farming in connection with the early termination of fur farming. We need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Chamber for the speedy handling of this law. I realize that there is usually a little more time between the time when a law comes to the Chamber and the time when you deal with it. But given the urgency of the bill, I'm grateful. It is good that we can give clarity here to the mink farmers. On 28 August last, the cabinet announced that it would prepare legislation to bring forward the ban on the keeping of mink in the Netherlands. Mr Janssen recalled that, too. It's not about a bill to end it, it's about bringing the termination forward. Because there was already a bill. I believe it belongs to one of his former party mates. With the announcement of the bill, we also follow an OMT-Z advice to end fur farming as soon as possible after the end of the fur period. It is precisely from the precautionary principle that we have eliminated the risk to longer-term public health, namely reservoir formation within mink farming and subsequent covid infections among humans, as soon as possible. This also puts an end to a turbulent year for the fur animal holders. That's just what I want to say. The proposed legislative amendment brought forward the ban on fur farming from 1 January 2024 to "thirtieth days after the entry into force of the amendment of the law." So it is also up to you and your voting behaviour. Upon approval by the Chamber, I expect to publish the legislative amendment in the Official Journal this year, with which the ban will then apply from 2021. It was, I think, reported earlier, but all the minks that were in the Netherlands have been killed at this time. Anticipating the ban, mink farmers have also chosen to kill breeding animals. Mr. Chairman. Members have asked various questions on various subjects. I think we can walk it by group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u42	A brief enlightening question to the Minister. You say that the fur animal owners have had the intention to kill the remaining mink as well. Can I assume that there is no living mink in the Netherlands anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u43	The fur animal farms have informed me that there are no live mink on their farms anymore. I was just going to say that I will reply by group. I think that I will take a number of questions from other groups. That's how we walk, I think, through all the questions. Mrs Kluit had a question about the scrapping and conversion scheme: do we intend to include ambitious animal welfare criteria? If a fur animal holder chooses to convert to a new form of intensive livestock farming, he will have to comply with the applicable frameworks anyway. This includes, for example, the production rights associated with such a holding, but also an environmental permit. The scrapping and conversion arrangements................................................................................................................................................................ It also aims to prevent the destruction of the countryside, of the landscape. A scrapping and conversion scheme is therefore not in itself a place in which you are going to make demands on how animal husbandry should be organised. Because if that's what we think, then that should apply to everyone. That is not just for a former mink farmer; then all animal farms in the Netherlands are just how you want those animals to be kept. For that we have the Animal Law and the Animal Decree keepers. And in any case, the former fur animal owners have to comply with that at the same time. Mrs Kluit actually says that the cabinet acted far too slowly and that there were many times when it should have been taken action earlier. I would like to say that we have taken measures from the very first moment that a contamination was found on a mink farm. It's not like we said, well, okay, good luck with it. Companies were first isolated and when we saw multiple infections coming, they were eliminated. Until the end of each infection has been cleared again. We've also screened all the companies continuously. That has happened all the time. Every week, monsters were sent in just to be on top of it, to see what happened. And I'm committed to reminding you of this, too. We've always followed the advice of the OMT-Z. The opinions of the OMT-Z are based precisely on public health risks and on their prevention. We attach a great deal of importance to this, because I would like to stress this once again. Questions were also asked here and suggestions were made that there would be other motives in the game. I can assure you that this has not been the case for a second. That is why we are always committed to following the OMT-Z opinion. The OMT-Z advised in August to end the fur animal farming after this fur period. That is exactly what we have done, and that is exactly why we are standing here with a legislative proposal. Finally, we quickly identified this as a zoonoses. In the case of zoonoses, the ministry of VWS is in the lead, the so-called zoonosis structure. It is precisely the argument of public health that has also been the determining factor in the end of fur farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u44	Thank you for your answer. I certainly did not want to say that health was not central. I wanted to ask what considerations are being made and I would like to hear them from the Minister. You have on the one hand continuously the importance of a sector versus an outbreak and monitoring. Then you start a route in which you wait for established facts before taking the next step. You could have acted by sitting all the way down on the safe and stopping right away. What intrigues me and my group is why we did not choose that second route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u45	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u46	It wasn't chosen, because it's related to what you see at the time. I can't act until I find out. You have to have a fact before you can act on it. I hear Mrs Kluit asking why I did not act until after a fact had been found. If we follow this second reasoning, we can end a lot of things in the Netherlands, because there is always a circumstance that you have to take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u47	Sure, but I think that's a little too easy. We believe that you have a greater responsibility in the Netherlands than in other areas of the world. We have very intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands and with that we also have a very great responsibility to act quickly. We now have a number of zoonoses behind us in the Netherlands, from the Q fever to the avian flu to this one. Each time we see that we are really waiting for an attitude that is perhaps not entirely the right expression, but that we are waiting for facts to come that demand further intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u48	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u49	My question is: 'I almost came up with that, President-in-Office of the Council, whether it is sufficiently quick to keep an outbreak under control.'
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u50	We have always acted on the basis of the insights that were present at the time. We did not do that ourselves, because we have always involved the experts' advice in the OMT-Z. We have always followed that advice. So it's not like we didn't do anything, or we did something late. The moment we found something, we acted. Sometimes you have to take different steps. In the beginning, there were few outbreaks and related measures. When that number increased, we had to relate and take other measures. We did. There was a build-up in there. If I compare it with the neighbouring countries of Denmark, of course, the example of Denmark has been waiting a very long time to do anything at all, and then a lot had to be done at once. We've just been on top of it all the time and constantly following what happened. We have also started clearings. When we saw that there were many companies where potential reservoir formation could occur, we said, also on the OMT-Z statement, that now we have to end this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u51	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u52	Thank you for the answers. I think we might give this a slightly different coloring, but that's fine. I asked one more question about what consideration you encountered and how you made it. That's about 140 companies versus an outbreak of corona, which at that time silences the whole of the Netherlands. Also because we can understand all this better, I ask what kind of considerations then play a role in such a conversation between the OMT-Z and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u53	That is your third question. For the record, we do not tutoy the government here. We address the government with "you." This is your third question about this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u54	There's no conversation like that with the OMT-Z. We ask the OMT-Z to advise. The OMT-Z advises us. We do not have a dialogue with the OMT-Z on this. We'll take that advice. In that sense, it's really pure. We're not gonna argue with the OMT-Z's advice. It is the expert opinion that we follow and that they can at that time give in full independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u55	This is a little too easy. The Minister now acts as if the cabinet is following all OMT-Z opinions. That's what it does when it's convenient. The OMT-Z had also advised to close the schools for a week longer during the autumn holidays. That didn't happen. Isn't it true that the cabinet makes its own policy assessment, having heard the OMT-Z?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u56	For the record, the OMT-Z is the OMT-zoonoses. That's not about the schools. That's the usual OMT. The OMT-Z relates specifically to zoonoses. We have followed all the opinions it has delivered. Of course, we are making the final assessment. It's not like the OMT-Z is weighing it up. But here we have followed all the advice given by the OMT-Z.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u57	But the starting point is that the advice requested, from the OMT or any variant, is the basis on which you can decide for yourself which policy measures you wish to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u58	Sure. And we did. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u59	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u60	Mrs Kluit asked questions about nitrogen duties. There are several Members who have asked questions about this. I am therefore committed to setting things straight as we have gone around it. The mink holders are subject to the same rules as for other sectors as regards the nitrogen space. For example, they can use the nitrogen space to make a reboot themselves through the so-called internal netting. Or they can, in the provinces where that is open, externally salad with livestock farms. Then the space can be made available to another entrepreneur, with a skimming of 30%, which benefits nature. As you may have noted, the draft law originally intended to give an additional restriction to the use of the mink's nitrogen space. We have presented this as such to the Council of State. The Advisory Section of the Council of State found objections to additional restrictions, in particular because mink holders would be subject to different rules compared to other sectors. The Council of State has recommended that restrictions on the use of the nitrogen space be removed from the legislative proposal. We then decided to do so. I did say that, and this is also stated in the note to the report, that I am considering the possibility of restricting the use of nitrogen space in the future in the event of termination situations. This should, for example, be done through the provincial policy rules. I will inform the House of Representatives and also your Chamber in the spring of 2021. That is the answer to Mrs Kluit's question as to why I did not do this. Because the Council of State said, you can't deal with things differently from other companies. I took that advice. We are looking at how, where appropriate, we can still make a rule of our own in order to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u61	Thank you. This is enlightening. My question was actually all the way up front. Why didn't we make the nitrogen duties that the companies have part of the whole stopper scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u62	At that point, you would have had to pay a fee for the nitrogen. This is an incredible precedent for all cases. Then you have to pay for nitrogen duties in all cases where you are going to end. That certainly seems undesirable, because then it really becomes an asset to be compensated, a property. You'll be in real trouble with other arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u63	Mrs. Kluit, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u64	I'm gonna ask you because I really don't understand. So we have not taken it now because then we have to pay, but that is true in future cases? Or if it does not apply in future cases, why can't we take it now for free?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u65	I get it. It's kind of hard. We have now drawn up policy rules on how to deal with nitrogen space. For example, if you salt externally, part of it must go to nature. That's at no price. We didn't put a price on that. It's just a rule that that has to happen. We have tried to include in this law that we could limit nitrogen. That was the view of the Council of State that this would lead to legal inequality between the same sectors. If I take it into a fee, that nitrogen's gonna get a value. In that case, anyone who suffers from the loss of nitrogen will have the right to say: you have previously paid for it, and you will have to do so in my case. So I have to turn it around. I have to make sure that, in termination situations that are mandatory when a person voluntarily renounces his rights, I do not have to pay for it anyway, but I have to put that into a general policy that applies to everyone and not to one sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u66	I have a question on the same subject. Are nitrogen duties based on the number of animals authorised or on the number of animals present?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u67	The nitrogen chamber is the space in the permit. In that sense, it will have gone through the authorised space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u68	Does the Minister take into account that the amount of nitrogen in the Netherlands could also increase rather than decrease, because the allowed space is often higher than the actual number of animals that actually exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u69	I hear other stories here on the other side. There are parties who say that there may have been more animals than there was in the permit. This has to do with a discussion about the authorised space and the actual space. This is particularly true in dairy farming, because in 2015, 2016 stables were made bigger and have not yet been filled up. In mink farming, I have no evidence that that allowed space has not been filled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u71	Mrs Kluit also has concerns about polarization. She asked us how we got to a good conversation. We held dialogue sessions in 2020, specifically on keeping animals in livestock farming and on keeping animals for entertainment. Those sessions have been wide-ranging. People who kept animals and people who had other images, all talked to each other, just to see if we could move forward and take steps in the polarization that had occurred at that time. So we have already started working on this and I see no reason to set it up even more broadly than we did at the time. Mrs Kluit also asks how I will work with municipalities and provinces to prevent mink farming in Natura 2000 areas from being transformed into nitrogen peak chargers. Mink farming is governed by the same rules as for all other sectors. If mink farming produces more nitrogen deposition with ditto effects by adjusting its activities, they will have to compensate for these effects in other ways, like all other farms. So it's not like they can suddenly get much more nitrogen space. They will have to apply for a permit to do so. The competent authority will then, of course, see if this new activity will not lead to more nitrogen emissions than the space available. Close to Natura 2000 sites there is certainly no room for that now. Mrs Kluit, and Mrs Moonen in the event of interruption, asked what we are going to do to look at the risks and practices of animal husbandry in the Netherlands. Our Ministry has a structure for the control of infectious animal diseases and zoonoses in collaboration with the Ministry of VWS and all other interested parties. We monitor the "zoonotic risk." My words are always a little... We monitor the zoonotic risk intensively, for example through the basic monitoring. As soon as there is an indication that there is a circulating virus that also has zoonotic properties, the zoonotic structure takes effect. Then the U.S. Department is in charge. Public health is always at the forefront. In view of the latest developments and the impact of zoonoses on humans, animals and society, the Cabinet intends to look ahead and, in addition to the existing instruments, further explore what is needed to avoid zoonoses as much as possible in the future. We are going to investigate it to see what it takes. I will inform you more about this before the end of the year, together with the VWS Minister. An assessment by experts of the risks and practices of Dutch and international animal husbandry will be part of this. I said "before the end of this year," but I think it will be before the end of next year, because we are really still trying to shape this well. In my view, these were the questions put by Mrs Kluit. Then I come to Mrs Faber's questions. In particular, Mrs Faber asked a number of questions about the scrapping and conversion scheme. It is true that the existing scrapping and conversion scheme for fur animals farmers is necessary because we have such a scheme to adapt to the early ban. The scrapping subsidy is now based on a European support framework that requires compensation from the fur animal keeper, namely the voluntary cessation of fur farming. But we don't do it voluntarily anymore, because it's now a ban. Under the current State aid framework, scrapping subsidies can no longer be granted because the compensation falls. I do want to continue to subsidise the demolition and conversion of stables or buildings, because I really believe that it is necessary to prevent the destruction of the landscape and to allow a reboot for fur animal owners with other activities than they have done now. I am in consultation with the European Commission on a new framework for support for scrapping aid. I didn't just sort that out. We'll take a good look at that. The Commission is also working well on this. It's not like people don't want to. Above all, we look carefully at the basis on which we can do this, so that it is formally properly arranged. In the first quarter of 2021, I will send you a draft of the change to the decision. That will be in the framework of a pending procedure. You can then take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u72	I believe the Minister's good intentions. I would like to give her that benefit. But the Minister is dependent on the European Commission. That's an uncertain factor. We are probably going to vote on this bill tomorrow, but in fact we are going to vote on something that is not yet on its feet. It is not at all certain that the scrapping and conversion arrangements will actually be implemented. Senators voting in favour of this bill are taking a certain risk, because we are assuming that the scrapping and conversion arrangements will be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u73	In any case, we are going to set up a scrapping and conversion scheme. Indeed, I cannot now give a complete picture of what it looks like and what the basis will be. He's being hung, so you can say in a comment what you think. With regard to the discussions with the Commission, I can only say that people are really watching and thinking about the options. If I had the impression that they didn't want anything, I'd be very worried right now and I'd be like, "Is that gonna be okay?" But I see that people are mainly considering how it can be done. I understand that at this moment your Chamber has to believe me on my somewhat greenish eyes. I have no blue eyes. It is therefore not the case that there will be no regulation. There's gonna be an arrangement. All I have to do is to send you the exact form it looks like and the criteria of the State aid frameworks on which the scheme is based. It is my commitment to maintain the current regime as much as possible, because I have had discussions with the sector on this. There one can, as good and as bad as can be done, with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u74	I'm going to ask the Minister a bit of annoying questions. The Minister is talking about a veil, but in fact I can't do much with that in the Upper Chamber; let's be honest about that. I do have the next point. If this bill is passed, you could pull a long nose, like "it's done." I'm not saying you do. Can we assume you're doing the best you can? 'Cause I'm gonna have to start judging you on your intentions right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u75	Oh, yeah. I'm aware of that. At the same time, you can see that we have simply kept the money we had reserved for the scrapping and conversion scheme. I did not use it to finance a scheme for the cessation of fur farming. I really kept it separate, because I think we really need that money to shape a good demolition and conversion scheme. So my commitment is to maintain the contours of the current regime as well as possible, but that we are looking for the right legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u76	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u77	Yes. Mrs Faber also asks whether it is possible for entrepreneurs to start new business activities. How do I see that in relation to nitrogen duties? The mink holders can use their nitrogen rights for a start-up. They keep them when they want to internalise, so they can do a new activity. They can therefore look at the activities involved. As I said to Mrs Kluit, it is true that you will have to change your permit if you need more nitrogen for an activity. So you're gonna have to find that space somewhere. So only with the present space can they get to work. They were also asked if they could still have a livestock farm. In general, there is a destination for intensive livestock farming. If we want an intensive livestock farming again, we can, but again under the premise that we must have production rights and that the environmental permit leaves room for that too. One can also, of course, externally salad with the space one has. It is up to the fur animal holder himself to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u78	The Minister states that it is part of livestock farming, but it is often explicitly stated in the zoning plans that it is for fur animals or mink. At the time when this is in the zoning plan of such a fur animal farming, that zoning plan will have to be changed. If it's specifically indicated, I don't think you can just... I'm just gonna call it chickens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u79	What I understand is that in the vast majority of cases I cannot say: 100% of the cases, because as far as I have not checked it, the title 'intensive livestock farming' is mentioned. So that's wider than fur farming. Municipalities usually also have a policy framework to check whether new activities fit into land use plans. So there are conditions for this. In the end, a municipality can always change a zoning plan. That is independent of the question of whether a company will be terminated. I do have the impression that the municipalities are having good conversations with the fur animal owners. There aren't so many municipalities where fur animal keepers sit or sit. We have good contact with that too. A municipality can always change a zoning plan. Actually, that's unrelated to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u80	Mrs Faber, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u81	Yes, just a practical question to the Minister. Will you come back to changing the zoning plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u82	No, I brought that in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u83	I had already suspected that, so I asked just to be sure, otherwise I would anticipate the troops. As I said in my speech, you advised the fur animal owners to talk to the municipality to see what the possibilities are. But actually, that's too easy. In this way they are extradited to the goodwill of the congregation. There's a problem now. I actually think it should be solved in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u84	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u85	The question is: I have also tabled a motion for a resolution on whether the Minister is prepared to ensure that municipalities cooperate with fur animals farmers, so that there is a possibility of starting up new business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u86	The municipalities I've been talking to are really thinking about what's possible at these locations right now. The question was: under what title was a licence issued? I said: I dare not say with certainty that it is 100%, but in the vast majority of cases that we know of, this has happened under the heading 'intensive livestock farming'. So that destination would still apply. It may be that municipalities decide that they can always do so in order to change that destination. That's an activity I'm not going into. That's just the jurisdiction of the municipalities. We think along with the municipalities. I also made that commitment to the House of Representatives. If people get very busy with the licence applications and if they do a lot of work, then we like to think along with the municipalities about how we can relieve them, so that the pace can stay in place. Those concerned still have nitrogen duties which they can use for new activities. I now have no evidence to suggest that a particular activity should not be carried out at all, provided that the conditions are met, but those apply to everyone. Moreover, the PVV Group in the Lower House has argued that certain activities should no longer be allowed to take place. Among other things, she no longer wanted rabbits to be kept, for example, at those locations. So I note that the Lower House is somewhat more restrictive than what the Upper Parliamentary Group of the PVV is asking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u87	Mrs Faber, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u88	I expected this comment. I would have expected it from colleagues rather than the Minister. I thought colleagues would jump in on this. I have also seen the amendment and personally believe that the amendment is contrary to itself, because if the destination is mink, you cannot just keep goats or chickens there. So I do not think that amendment is entirely correct. But I didn't want to bring that up myself, because that's a little faint too. That's how I've lived. Let me put it this way. I'm going to go back to the Minister's response. The Minister indicated what all the municipalities should do, but my question was whether the Minister would like to ensure that the municipalities participate in a start-up for these possible new companies. I haven't had an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u89	Because there's no formal jurisdiction of mine there. The permits are requested from the municipality. The municipalities also assess the applications on the basis of the plans they themselves have, such as the zoning plans, but also check whether the application complies with other cross-compliance conditions applicable to the activity at that location. That's not something I normally do, and I'm not gonna do it here. In the municipality of Gemert-Bakel, for example, there are a lot of former fur animal owners. If they all apply for a new licence, that could mean a lot of work for that one official. The House of Representatives has asked me: can you give practical thought to this and participate in it in order to ensure that the permit is granted quickly? That is what I said: I want to deal with hands and hands in a practical sense, so to speak. However, I am not going to step into powers that are not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u90	One more time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u91	That'll be 3a, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's very interesting what happened here. As I said from the point of view, governments are moving the matter together and hiding behind each other. The Minister now says: that is not my competence. This is what I'm afraid of. I think that a citizen simply has the right to seek an integral solution. Governments should not shift the problems to another government. That is why my question to the Minister was: will you then ensure that such a municipality cooperates? Then we shouldn't shove the problems together. In this way, the mink keeper who wants to reboot gets stuck between shore and ship. Because Jantje says you have to go to Pietje. Pietje says you have to go to Klaasje.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u93	Mrs Faber, this is starting to look like a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u94	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u95	I'm gonna give the same answer I gave for this, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u96	But I'd like to sum up briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u97	We will provide practical support where possible. These are the powers of the municipalities, as they always are. That is not new, and this bill will not change that. In fact, I am reflecting the answer I gave to Mrs Faber's amendment at the time. Once again, I was given powers which I said I do not have, because I am not the one who grants the licence on that point. She is actually asking me to do the same thing in reverse, only in the other direction in relation to what the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the PVV asked. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u98	Thank you. Mrs Kluit, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u99	Thank you for these answers, Minister. I think it is very good that provinces and municipalities can give an opinion on this, because they also have a task for the nature approach. I also asked the Minister, rather the other way than Mrs Faber asked: how do we deal with nature values? I am pleased that this Minister indicates that she would at least like to give the provinces and the municipalities the room to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u100	I'm going to put it very strictly, because I can see that it doesn't exactly happen the way I mean it. Or they're trying to get me into a camp somewhere, of course. Mrs Faber asks me whether I want to play a role in the area of zoning and licensing. Then I say, no, that's what I'm talking about. I am competent on a number of permits, but not on the local permits for these types of companies. Mrs Kluit then says: 'Good that you seem to be giving the room to reduce nitrogen'. But that's not gonna happen. They've got that nitrogen chamber. This bill won't take it away from them. It is handled no differently than in other situations. So I'm not gonna do that. Here too, we simply follow the existing rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u101	Mrs Kluit has just one short question and we are going to give the Minister a chance to make a few meters. You can ask a question. Comments can be given in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u102	Then I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u103	That's good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u104	Mr Janssen has asked a number of questions about the reasons for the route we have walked. We have already had an exchange of views on this subject in the little debate on the OMT-Z. I explained why we did what we did with nitrogen. Mr Janssen probably asked a rhetorical question in his view: do I not compensate on the spacious side? I have the impression he thinks the compensation is too high. In determining the level of the so-called disadvantage compensation, we have independently investigated what the components should be included in that disadvantage compensation. Mr Recourt asked about the three versus eleven years. We had said that the fur animal keepers could continue for 11 years. Mr Recourt asked why I did not choose to reason back. If you take down three elevenths of that time, what is the amount on the other side? I say to Mr Recourt: there was no amount attached to those 11 years. It's not like the judge has decided: in 11 years there can be so much money, so you can calculate what that means every year. That didn't provide a clue. The judge merely said that those 11 years are a reasonable transitional period. I can't put euros on that. Of those 11 years, three remain. If you assume that a company exists for another three years, what are the parts you should include in the damages? Then what are you getting at? Those components have been notified to your Chamber. Van Ameyde and Becker have advised on this and we have taken that advice. Not every fur animal holder is eligible for compensation for all components. This also depends, for example, on whether the company has been cleared or not. We have also taken into account that companies that have been cleared have already received compensation. This is also taken into account in the final termination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u105	I'm trying to speed things up before we go through the whole Van Ameyde report. I am concerned that I have the impression that, where margins are being observed all the time, the Minister sits on the safe side of those margins all the time. I referred to this in my contribution. My question is: has it been more important for you, by sitting on the safe side of the margins and on the high side of the compensation, for legal sustainability than a more austere implementation? This austere implementation might have been legally sustainable, but perhaps a little less certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u106	We have taken account of the so-called fair balance. I have to take that as a starting point when I move on to compulsory early termination. We have had an investigation into the damage related to it. It's not like we've been sitting at the top every time. It's true that there were bandwidths. I sat in the middle of these bands to prevent us from having all kinds of legal discussions about height. I wanted to prevent it from being challenged on that. We would then have a long legal procedure before we could end fur farming. But I do not recognize myself in the image that we have compensated generously. This is really just within the frameworks, which have also emerged from independent research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u107	I actually heard: yes, we have looked at the legal sustainability. But I am looking at where the risk, the entrepreneurial risk is. Van Ameyde says that between 10% and 20% is really the lower limit. And then you'll sit at the lower limit in the middle one more time. Then my question is: couldn't that have been 20%? But perhaps you will come back to that in your response to the Bromet motion from across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u108	Between 10% and 20%: 10% therefore seems to me to be rather spacious and 20% less spacious. That is where I sat in the middle, precisely to ensure legal sustainability on the one hand and, on the other hand, to prevent it, let me put it this way, from becoming too generous a remuneration. You ask what I am doing with the Bromet motion asking for 20%. I am not carrying out this motion, because I am simply sticking to the rules as we have established them ourselves, with a 15% risk of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u109	Mr. Janssen, a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u110	Well, that's clear. But it was about which part... Otherwise, Mr Bromet would not have argued for 20% on the other side rather than 10% on the other side. In my opinion, it is a question of which part is for the entrepreneur's own account, what is deducted and what is taken into account as his own risk. You say 10% is higher than 20%. But I think that's the other way around. If I'm wrong, you'll let me know. But it would have been strange if Mr Bromet had argued for 20%, while 10% would have reduced benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u111	The higher your own risk, the less you get, or even: the more you have to pay. Mrs Bromet said that our own risk should be higher. The Van Ameyde report gave a bandwidth of 10% to 20%. 10% is therefore a low own risk. I sat up there with 15%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u112	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u113	I don't think I can make it any easier, Mr. President. Mr Janssen spoke about fraud. He said: if there is fraud, then surely the amount you have received illegally must be taken. That's right, but it's always up to the district attorney and the judge to determine what the fraud was. The court may then take the advantage obtained unlawfully. It is good to see whether there is fraud if too many animals are kept. Of course, it's not for me to judge that. But just to outline the frameworks: if too many animals are kept, then you have an administrative ground to maintain and that is first aimed at restoring the offence. Suppose you have 100 animals when you can only have 50, then it is said first: you have to go back to 50. That's the recovery. A fine may also be imposed for exceeding the maximum limit. If there is fraud, the appropriate criminal jurisdiction can be used. That's what I just called taking away the advantage. That's pretty much the two different flavors. You must also be able to see that there is fraud. If that is not the case, then a fine is obvious on administrative grounds. However, the compensation scheme is at least based on the number of animals the keeper was allowed to keep. There were some questions about that, too. So it is not based on the number of people who actually kept it, because it simply looks at what was in the permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u114	So now I hear the Minister actually say: even though someone had begun to phase out his business five years ago by gradually keeping fewer animals, because he knew it would end in 2024... But I know from the practice of licensing that the licensed... So if the number of animals authorised is higher, you say: even if there were demonstrably fewer animals, we are going to compensate for the maximum number that has been granted and therefore also for all those animals that were no longer kept. Do I hear the Minister say that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u115	The permit was looked at and there was also a census in 2013 of the number of animals that were on the holding and those two are taken together. The 2013 census therefore determines the amount paid for the compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u116	So, about everyone who anticipated stopping in 2024 as good entrepreneurs should actually do, you say now: we'll add the rest, even if someone has started to keep fewer minks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u117	I know examples of companies that have stopped altogether. They are no longer eligible for this compensation. There's a discussion about that, too. I don't know how much of the other holders they've kept. I do know that these were just companies that were still fully operational. They weren't companies that thought half of it: this could be over. They simply have fixed burdens that they will have to pay back. So my impression is not that so much less animals have been kept there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u118	Mr Janssen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u119	In order to say that, you should first know how many have actually been there, but I heard the Minister later say that she has no indications that there were fewer than what was granted. My question then is whether there has been any question of this at all. Has anyone been asked by the environmental services whether there are any knowledge of how many animals are kept? The basis is the number of animals authorised, but the final benchmark was 2013 and you do not know how many animals have actually been kept in recent years and how much the actual damage is, including for entrepreneurs who were already phasing out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u120	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u121	Mr. Chairman. This is quite extraordinary, because one moment I am accused of not knowing whether too much has been kept and the other moment I am accused of not knowing whether too little has been kept. We assumed the count in 2013. That census is the basis for the quantity of animals that have been or are kept. Again, companies have stopped. They really ended their business. It is not that we keep track of exactly how many animals there are on such a farm every year. An environmental service doesn't exactly keep track of how many animals they are. So here we have looked at the data that we knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u122	Mr. Janssen, 3a. I'm in a good mood today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u123	I asked for 3a, Mr. Chairman. The minister says, "I don't think environmental services keep track of that." Did she even ask you that? Because that's what it's about: is there any question of how many animals are being kept? I think it is a very strange construct if 2013 is the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u124	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u125	The data that is hard is the data from 2013. That was reported to RVO at the time, and that is the basis on which we shaped the compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u126	I do not fully understand the discussion, because, in my view, Article 5 of the policy rules simply states: 'This article refers to 'the number of breeding operations permitted to be kept in law' as the lowest number of breeding operations allowed to be kept by the fur animal keeper, under the environmental permit granted to him, the nature permit granted to him, or the declaration referred to in Article 3 (1) (c) of the law'. That is where I think the answer can be found. I think we are talking about a criterion that is not at all in the policy rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u127	It wasn't a policy I was calling for either. I have said that we are looking at the environmental permit, which is in the law, or at the census that was done in 2013 and is known by RVO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u128	Then, given the time, I suggest you continue your argument, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u129	Consistent with other arrangements that may have been made in the context of corona. Mr Janssen's question is whether there are any doubles in this. We have two regulations that could apply to fur farming, namely the so-called TVL and the NOW. In any case, in the case of the NOW itself, there should be no collusion with other arrangements. That's like all the other companies. If the conditions are met, they can be kept. If the conditions are not met, then this is not the case here either. In the case of the TVL, there must have been a turnover loss of 30% in the last quarter compared to 2019. We have asked questions and three fur animals have applied, two of which have been withdrawn and one has been granted. In that case, there is no overlap with the loss compensation, as the loss compensation is seen in the period from 2021 and not in the fourth quarter of 2020. However, I am in conversation with the Ministry of EZK whether the fur animal owners can be excluded from the TVL after the entry into force of the ban, because, of course, there will soon be a compensation from fur animal farming. Then it would be strange, if you had no capacity, to call on the TVL. That's just not by the book. So we just treat them like the others. Mr Recourt asked for a state of affairs in neighbouring countries. In several Member States of the European Union, breeding operations have become infected: the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Italy, Spain, Greece, France, Poland and Lithuania. I have also put the subject on the agenda at international level. I discussed it at the so-called Agriculture Council in November. The request of the Netherlands and Denmark was discussed at the European Health Council on 2 December. I have asked the European Commission for a One Health approach to the infections with SARS-CoV-2 in mink. I also advocated a common EU approach for all contaminated mink farms. The European Commission has recognised that there is a potential danger to people and has pointed out to the Member States the importance of monitoring the situation properly, but no further action has been taken so far. It is now up to the Member States themselves. We have made our case, but it is now up to the Member States if the European Commission does not go further in this respect. I have just explained the question of compensation in relation to the three elevenths. I also replied to Mr Janssen's question on the cumulation of measures. In order to prevent fraud, we must ensure objective compensation. It will therefore also be necessary to provide verifiable data. I could possibly get an expert to check if we have any further questions. Then I come to Mr Nicolaï's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u130	Still a bit before the theory, but perhaps also for the practice. In theory it can be that a mink-fokker on the border with Germany or Belgium picks up his whole business, gets all the compensation and starts again 2 kilometers further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u131	I cannot forbid a person abroad from starting an activity which is legally valid in that country. This is true in broad terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u132	I understand the Minister's dilemma, but I think it is a shocking observation of what that does for public health in the Netherlands, regardless of animal welfare: almost nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u133	That is why I have advocated at European level that we should all be clear about this and also look at what we can do with each other to reduce public health risks. Unfortunately, I note that the European Commission has so far seen no role for itself in this, no less than calling for good monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u134	Mr Recourt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u135	Did you also consult with our immediate neighbours outside the EU context, just bilaterally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u136	Outside the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u137	So just a non-official phone call with your colleagues Belgium and Germany: we really have a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u138	Oh, in a way like that. I have been in contact with the Danes about how they dealt with it, because, of course, they were in situations that were more serious than we were. I note that more and more Member States are banning fur farming. In Flanders this is discussed and in France; in Poland even a government has fallen on it. This is happening in several Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u139	Continue your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u140	Yes. Then I'll come...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u141	The Minister is now coming to your questions, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u142	I understand that my questions will be answered in this way, but if you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to refer to Mr Recourt, because that was a very good example. He says: if you cross the border of Belgium, then public health and the income situation are at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u143	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u144	I understand the Minister says, "I can't forbid anyone to start anything." I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u145	But what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u146	My question is: could you not say that, in such a situation, if someone makes a request for compensation, a statement will be submitted in which the person concerned states that he will not use the money to carry out a new activity in the same sphere and thus gain income?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u147	Here's the difference between mandatory and voluntary. It's not like people voluntarily ask to quit. It's the government that decides they have to stop immediately. That is also why we need to proceed with disadvantage compensation. I shall now turn to Article 1 of the ECHR, because Mr Nicolaï has also asked why it is happening on that basis. That's because if you don't, you're gonna take people's property. If you do that, you're gonna have to compensate for that, too. If you are going to insist on that, it is a limitation of that compensation for something that cannot be overcome. One has to stop. So if it was a voluntary scheme, you could make those kinds of demands easier. This is not possible in the case of compulsory regulations. If it's a legal activity, I can't just ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u148	You're continuing your... Mr. Nicolaï another supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u149	Yeah, about that voluntary and mandatory thing. No matter how you turn it or turn it, an application is made for a disadvantage compensation. It must be made available and then policy rules are put in place which state how they are available. Why shouldn't there be something in these policies, as it says now for example: "For a place where no mink has been kept by 2020, a fur animal keeper is only entitled to compensation for damage if he can make it plausible that buildings, buildings and so on are still so intact..." You ask the applicant for information, and that information is decisive in this case. So why not ask the applicant: can you state that you are not going to use that amount to earn income directly across the border that we are now going to reimburse you as a Dutch taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u150	Because anyone can go anywhere and do an activity that is legal. Whether that money comes from a remuneration from the government or from his own savings is not decisive. Again, the difference between voluntary and compulsory is indeed essential here, because it is not the case that a fur animal holder comes along and applies for damage compensation. We offer a disadvantage compensation as compensation for the fact that we are obliged to terminate. That's really different than asking for a disadvantage compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u151	In view of the time, I suggest that we let the Minister finish her little block and then post the remaining interruptions. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u152	Yes, Mr President, because I come to Mr Nicolaï's question as to how I see the right to morale in this matter. I think Mr Nicolaï sums it up well. I'm with a party that always likes to have that kind of discussion, but I have to tell you one thing. If someone starts by comparing what happened to the Jews in Nazi Germany and what the mink owners are doing now, then the debate with such a person is over. I can't do anything with that. I can't have a substantive discussion like that. That discussion is quite valuable in itself, but not in such a way. So I'm not going to go into that. Mr Nicolaï also asked why this basis was chosen for the end of fur farming. He asked why the Temporary Law measures COVID-19 were not used for this purpose. Couldn't a foundation have been found in that? The name says it all: the covid law is a temporary law. And the present bill provides for an advance of a permanent ban. That is also a ban that is already in an existing law. We're bringing forward the date of entry of a law that already exists. In any event, an advance will bring with it an amendment of the law. Even if I had taken the covid law as the basis, I should have changed this law. I also heard Mr Nicolaï put forward the arguments for this. He said "temporarily" is three years and then there is still a virus and then there are still foundations for ending that fur animal farming or at least prohibiting it or whatever. At the moment when there is a vaccine, and that is quite real, because that vaccine is already being distributed and used here and there, you could rightly say: there is just a vaccine coming and therefore the risk that the fur animal farming is a reservoir for covid is no longer present. On the basis of the Temporary Law measures COVID-19, I cannot therefore regulate a permanent ban. That is why we have opted for the advance of the bill that already existed, which I should have changed anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u153	I just made the order proposal to let the minister finish her block. I asked if anyone would oppose it. Well, that wasn't the case, so I suggest we hold that appointment now, if you don't mind. After that, there is definitely room for interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u154	Then Mr Nicolaï asks if I am prepared to amend the policy rule in Article 3 in relation to loss compensation in relation to company risk, to have this examined and also to Article 5 (2) and (5). We've done some research. That's exactly what your room received. I mentioned the Van Ameyde report and the WECR report. We have just had the debate on the percentages and choices I have made. I also used the Van Ameyde advice to set the amounts of €51 and €38 respectively, as mentioned in Article 5 (2) and (3). So I did the right thing when Mr Nicolaï asked me to do, and I based myself on that in the definition of the policy rule. Then there is the question of not using the compensation received. I think I have just talked about this in the interrupting debate with Mr Recourt. We are still working on getting and keeping the subject on the European agenda through the One Health approach. As has been said, the European Commission has not so far decided to do so. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered the questions of the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u155	Thank you. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u156	I also asked a question about income losses. It is actually also about the provision that the Minister has just referred to, Article 5 and then paragraph 2. It says: "The income loss is determined per place according to the formula: 3 x (€51,- x the number of breeding stocks)." Three times is connected to three years. Can I conclude from the Minister's words that she assumes that next year, 2021, another fur farm could open up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u157	Not if this bill is passed, because then it is in violation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u158	I didn't quite get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u159	Not if this bill is passed, because then there is a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u160	Well, if the bill isn't passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u161	We have a transport ban right now. I can stretch that transport ban as long as there's a reason why we have it. The ground we now have is the fact that there is a danger to public health because of covid. But I just argued this. At the moment when there is a vaccine and several people are vaccinated, the mink keepers can appeal by saying: the reservoir formation can no longer harm, because there is a vaccine that protects people. My legal basis will then lapse in order to introduce a ban on transport all this time. So yes, if this bill is not passed, chances are that companies will start up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u162	No matter how you turn it or turn it, I hear from other rulers that it will certainly take a whole year before it really is there enough protection with that vaccine. Therefore, I cannot imagine that, if this law is not adopted, a fur animal farming in 2021 will generate income from the exploitation of fur animals. And yet it's being compensated. So my question is: I do not understand it, so can the Minister tell me on the basis of what expectation she actually assumes that such a breeding operation could have started again in 2021? Because that is what determines the application of the policy rules, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u163	I'm afraid I'm falling into repetition again. We currently have a ban on transport. I can keep that, as long as I have a ground for that. The ground that we now have is public health and the fact that covid is still in the people and that the mink may form a reservoir, if we are to learn it more from people, let me put it this way, and not the mink. So the fewer people actually have covid, the more likely the reservoir formation is a threat to public health. I can now keep that transport ban on that land. But when a large part of the Dutch people are vaccinated, or at least that covid much more, let me put it this way, a mink holder could say: why do I still have a transport ban, because the chances of people getting infected are merely nil; why should I not continue with my company? And I cannot rule out the fact that at those moments you are going to be able to go ahead, and perhaps not next year, but in 2022, and in 2023 you will not be able to keep the ground for the ban on transport. So the best way to make sure that there is no mink farming anymore is to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u164	Mr Nicolaï, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u165	I hear you now about 2022 and 2023, but my question was whether it is realistic to assume that this could happen next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u166	I can't rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u167	And if that is not realistic, then I do not understand why a policy rule for that year provides proper compensation. 'Cause if you do the bugs that time, you're gonna end up in the millions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u168	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u169	That was my question, and I can't get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u170	Then you will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u171	I can't rule out reopening it if I don't have this law. And the amount you mention is times three, because it is immediately a definitive fee for everything. That is not for one year, that is for the three years in which animals could have been kept in a holding. That's where that three times came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u172	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank the Minister for all the answers and for explaining the additional research that is going to be done on zoonoses in the Netherlands and an adequate approach. I assume that we can also consider this as a commitment, and that it is moving in our direction both in design and in the subsequent final report. Then the dialogue session. It's a shame even I didn't realize we did. Let me leave it at that. Given all the signals from the farmers that they are being heard badly, it seems to me that we still have an assignment here for ourselves. The nitrogen. Glad the Minister wants to further develop this in the new stopper arrangements. I think it's very important that we don't get this again. And then there's an explanation. I didn't mean to say that the nitrogen should be taken away from mink farmers. That would have been very nice, but we're not gonna do that. Fine. I meant that I was pleased that the Minister supported the municipalities and provinces in their own assessment framework, so they could also say to initiators that something does not fit, for example, the Natura 2000 policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u174	Please continue. The Minister hears what you say; I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u175	That leaves me with the ambitious animal welfare requirements. And I'm a little concerned about that. The Minister states that we should look at this conversion and demolition scheme; these are ordinary companies, and you cannot impose any additional requirements there. Of course, they are not ordinary companies, because they get forced termination and they get a whole package of arrangements. So the key issue is that we can also use this moment to make an extra step towards animal welfare. And that's why I'm making a motion. I'll submit it. And perhaps it will also help the Minister to get a little more support from the EU for the conversion and demolition scheme. The: Mr Kluit, Mr Janssen and Mr Recourt proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that small wire mesh cages from mink farming run counter to the intrinsic value of the animal as laid down in Article 1.3 and are also specifically a restriction on the appearance of natural behavior in accordance with Article 1.3 (3) (e);]] [[Whereas re-used wire mesh cages of mink farming may be used for other animal species in the conversion of the holding;]] [[calls on the Government to make ambitious animal welfare criteria part of the future conversion scheme for fur livestock farms, such as the Pelsdier farming subsidy, and to make granting conditional on a ban on wire mesh cages when converting the holding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35633-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u176	Perhaps the Minister could incorporate this scheme into the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy, in which we strive for better animal welfare, so that you also have an additional argument for doing something extra in this animal welfare scheme, which is of course of value throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u177	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief because I got plenty of time for my interruptions, thank you for that. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. I would like to emphasise a few small points, starting with the scrapping and conversion scheme. It remains an uncertain factor whether it really is going to happen, because the European Commission still has a certain competence in it. It is to the credit of the Minister that she wishes to make every effort to convince the European Commission of this regulation. That is why I think it is a pity that she is less committed to the other area of responsibility for the zoning plan. This competence lies with the local authorities, because I think the Minister will be able to get some movement in that area with the municipalities. That's a bit of a missed opportunity, isn't it? Then the shortening of the transitional period. We can agree with that in view of the disadvantage compensation. In 2013 I myself held the debate on the ban on fur farming. We were in favour of the animal welfare ban and we discussed it in detail. I'm not going to repeat all that, because I did all that back then. In view of the damage compensation that exists and in the context of public health, we can support the shortening of the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u179	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Janssen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with a preliminary remark, which I have already said personally to Mr Nicolaï. We are all talking about our own words here as Members, but for me the situation in fur-animal farming is so dier-friendly and so barbarous that I do not need any comparison and certainly not that made by Mr Nicolaï. That's the thing before. Mr. Chairman. Looking at everything, I can say that I am extremely happy that the animal suffering comes to an early end. All things considered, I must also say that I gradually became more and more unhappy with the details of the implementation, as I heard from the Minister. I agree with Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst's fears when she said: yes, we will have a veil here. I have just heard that a motion by Mr Bromet on the other side is not being carried out in the House of Representatives. In addition to the fact that a motion is not carried out in the House of Representatives, we have experience that motions are sometimes not carried out in the House of Representatives, let alone in front of a wall of which we may find something. I share Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst's unrest. I know that the OMT-Z is not about school closures, but we see in width that there will be many OMT reports and that the cabinet may or may not make its own policy choices. That's up to the cabinet, too. You have to explain that. You need to be transparent about that. I note that the Minister is now saying: I have followed all OMT-Z opinions. Fine, but the Minister could have made a different assessment of policy, as she said, in order not to follow the OMT-Z and, for example, to close it earlier. If she had wanted to take a different decision because of the social unrest in the municipalities, she could have taken that decision for reasons other than the OMT-Z's opinion on public health. There is also such a thing as social interest and social unrest. That could have been a reason, I'm not sure. The Minister was also very selective in explaining the Council of State. She said, "The Council of State has advised that it can't be done." No, the Council of State has advised that it cannot be as the Minister had suggested. The Council of State has also said that if you do things differently now, we can imagine something and then it is justifiable, but not as you have proposed it now. The Minister left that out, and I regret that. A coincidence with the NOW? No, of course there is no coincidence with the NOW, because it will not come together until we adopt this bill. My question is: can the Minister still look at that? Until now there has been no coincidence, but from 2021 there may be a coincidence. My question is: will you explain that again? Maybe I don't get it. I didn't ask if there were too many animals or too few animals. My question was: do you even know how many animals there are? The answer was "no" because we haven't seen it since 2013. At that time there was a separate task of the companies and we accept it for the truth. We don't really know what the actual situation is right now. I cannot imagine that there has been no inspector in these 160 companies for seven years, neither of the NVWA nor of the municipality nor of the environmental service, of anyone. That for seven years no one has had any idea, that there are no control reports of what is going on on on that farm, how many animals are being kept, whether there are developments, whether there have been requests for authorisation to change. This is because on the assembly line the application for authorisation to change is made. So I can't imagine that. Mr Bromet's motion on 20% entrepreneurs is not being carried out, the Minister says here. I assume they already know that across the street. If not, surprise! I find that very unfortunate, because it was just the chance to show that the lower limit of 10% to 20%, which was indicated by Van Ameyde, was the lower limit. So 20% was also the lower limit. Van Ameyde did not say: with more than 15% it becomes really tricky. No, 20% was really the lower limit. It could've just happened, but it won't happen. I'm sorry about that. I have a lot of regrets and then I find it a pity again that this has to be done in this context. I note that, assuming 150 million, 5% is still 7.5 million. This seems to me to be a serious amount, which may not have had to be paid out, but it is now. Mr. Chairman. All closing up, I end up with what I started. We are happy with the end of the animal suffering, but gradually becoming more and more unhappy with the execution. We look forward to the veil and we see what comes out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u181	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the second term, I actually want to express my discomfort. I'm involved in this subject. I myself have treated the Initiative Act on the ban on fur farming in the Eerste Kamer as a successor initiator. Mrs Van de Klashorst was there at the time. It was a moving debate and that emotion I feel a little bit about myself today. I'll pronounce that inconvenience on two sides. The first side was "I found it difficult to interrupt" the comparison with World War II. You might be able to make that comparison, but I'm not doing it myself. Why not? Because it's polarizing and because you're not getting anywhere. But also inconvenience on the other hand: overcompensate and pay too much. That impression I keep keeping, especially when you compare it, especially tonight, with what others get affected by the corona crisis. If the Minister says we're going to take the middle, the report says 10%-20%, then I think the term "lower limit" is misinterpreted. Mr Janssen also said it. The lower limit is 10%-20%, so 20% is still the lower limit. Then I'm struggling a little bit with the role of the First Chamber. You could say we're throwing a similar motion over it again. If that motion is passed, so has the First Chamber. I don't think that's our role. It is more the role of the House of Representatives to ensure that that motion is carried out. But it's too bad. Then there is the inability to solve this European problem. That's still a big inconvenience. We're gonna take care of it right up to the border. Just across the border, we can still just export the problem. I realize it's what it is for tonight. I will advise my group to vote in favour, because in the end there is little choice, I think. Public health is important and animal welfare is important. I thank the Minister for picking that up at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u183	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Finally, Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u184	Thank you, Mr President. I have a technical question for the Minister, but I would also like to make the following point. I think it is not the fault of the people who have listened to it, but the fault of the person who wrote it down and said it. I very much regret that, in my opinion, things have been misunderstood. Never would I ever think of comparing, so to speak, the animal suffering with the suffering that has occurred in the Nazis' murder factories. That was uncomparable. What I was concerned with was that I had also put right on the map in the beginning... is the difference between law and morality. After World War II, we saw that what was then presented as law and what was in Germany was set aside on the basis of morality. I think that is a subject which is not at all appropriate in a 15-minute discussion of this law. I would like to come back to this in a broader context. I'm sorry if I hurt people. That was supposed to be zero. The equation people pulled out of it wasn't at all the equation I wanted to make. That's what I wanted to say in the first place. Secondly, I would like to mention an essential point. I have the impression that the Minister is talking a little bit about that. We talked about what it would be like if this bill had not been passed. Then the Minister says, "I'd have the transport ban." That's based on the Animal Health and Welfare Act. But there was also the possibility of saying, on the basis of the OMT's opinion, that we are going to ban the opening of those breeding operations on the basis of the corona distribution. If that had happened, we would have had a situation where there was no breeding either. But then we would also have had a situation where we had not lost this huge amount of compensation. This is particularly important because all kinds of others, such as catering and event agencies, have had to close down their businesses on the basis of the corona measures. There is no compensation scheme for this. I can therefore very well imagine that these people feel particularly cold when we are now going to "reward' those mink farms, and I say this again to the Minister; I have heard her say that the reason for this bill was public health. When it comes to public health, it is a matter of the corona measures. Then you have to draw one line. Then it can't be that you're handing out 200 million to the mink breeders, while all kinds of others are standing in the cold. That's the point I've been trying to make. I believe that the Minister still needs to answer my question in this respect: could not a covid measure simply be taken? In the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that "the re-starting of holdings which have been cleared for a relatively short period in the course of 2021, should this be justified in the veterinary and public health field, is considered pointless'. The government says that if we had closed the breeding operations under the covid law, it is unthinkable that those breeding operations would be restarted in the course of the period up to the end of 2023. If that were unthinkable and we had taken that measure, it would have saved the Dutch taxpayer 200 million. I still find that something uncomfortable; to quote Mr Recourt. I still don't have a clear answer to that. I believe that this Chamber deserves an answer. In any case, I think that all the other companies closed down because of corona deserve an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u185	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Yes, that's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. Just a minute, the Minister's microphone is down. I'm gonna take a look at the technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u186	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Members have asked a number of questions and tabled a few motions. I'll answer the questions first and then I'll come to the motions. First of all, Mrs Kluit's question. She asked if the investigation about the zoonoses could be made to the First Chamber. It's possible. As soon as we know more about this, we will inform your Chamber. At the end I come to Mrs Kluit's motion. The same applies to Mrs Faber's motion, which I shall come back to in a moment. Then Mr Janssen. I need to clarify a few things, because I don't think what I'm saying is quite right. Bearing in mind Mr Nicolaï, I say that this is always up to the sender and not the receiver. So I'm gonna try again. Could I have made a decision on a ground other than public health? That is basically what Mr Janssen says: you do not have to follow the OMT-Z. That's right. I don't need to follow the OMT-Z. I can decide to do something myself. I'm gonna have to have some ground for it. The ground for this was public health. If I have no evidence that it is necessary from the point of view of public health to do so, then I come to other situations, as we have had in the original legislative proposal. It also cited ethical grounds as justification to stop doing so. That has been brought to the highest court, with the highest court being told that there must then be a transitional period of, in this case, 11 years to justify it. It is not, therefore, that I can simply decide to close an entire industry without land. I really need a good basis for that. I got that from the OMT-Z experts, not because I sent them, because they are independent, but because they said: these are the steps you need to take. If I were to go further into that, I would have to go before every judge to back up why I think this is a legitimate ground. From the previous round we know how complicated it is to have that land and what you put opposite. It is true that something else could have come out, but it would have been harder to get that substantiated. I thought it was important to have the legal basis in order here. The Council of State would have said that if I had done it differently with nitrogen, it would have been justifiable. But it doesn't say that. Well, let's get back to the quotes. It says that the Council of State says: you treat them differently from other companies, so you can't, also in the light of your commitment to legalizing notifications from other industries. It's not in the order: because you use it for other things, you can't do it. It is a by-product that counts the Council of State on top of it, rather than being cited as a reason. The reason is first of all: you make a difference in companies and you have no justification for it. Then there is the coincidence with the other arrangements. I think I have just explained that we have just said to EZK's colleagues: make sure that there is no duplication. Nor do we consider that to be justified. At the time a disadvantage compensation is paid, there is already a high fee, so you will never get the turnover difference of 30% compared to the year before. We're just looking at this to avoid exactly this. Do I know how many animals there are? The question was: haven't there been all kinds of change permits in between? We're assuming the permits. So we're not going to assume 2013 alone. We're assuming the latest permits have been issued. If no changes have been made, we will start from 2013. By the way, they are taken into account every year in the May census. But as Mr Janssen may also know, there are more animals on a farm than just breeding. The young animals will not be counted. We know how many breeding bits there are, because that is just taken away at the May count.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u188	Would the Minister like to know, for the proper implementation of this scheme, how many animals are present at these farms by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u189	I know how many breeding bits there are in the May count. Different animals are thrown per breeding bitch. I don't know exactly what they are, because they're always different every year. It is necessary to indicate each year how many breeding days one has on a farm. So we know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u190	Okay. The Minister said: we are assuming the tasks in 2013 and the authorised number. Now you're actually saying: we actually know quite well how many animals there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u191	There's a difference between how many breeding bits you've got and how many kids those animals have. Different quantities of chicks can be thrown per breeding bitch. I'm not sure. In 2013 they had to give up how many were present on the company in total. We just don't keep an annual record of exactly how many animals there are, because there may be fluctuations in them. We know how many dams there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u192	Mr Janssen, the third to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u193	Finally. But this is a special year, because we are going to determine the basis for the compensation, so how many animals will be reimbursed. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst still offered me that it is possible to find out if you want, for example by looking at how much food has been purchased and so on. So it can be traced. Will the Minister find out? Or does she say: I assume from May and from what I know, and that's about it, based on 2013?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u194	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u195	There's a certain space in it. It is not large, but there is a certain space for how much it is exactly, also because I believe that not every mink holder knows exactly how many animals his breeding animal throws at any given moment. So you really need to keep some kind of bandwidth in that. That can be approximate, of course, but it is not an exact round number, if Mr Janssen asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u196	May I ask for some rest in the room? If you do need to consult, would you like to put on a mouth cover, preferably keep a distance of 1.5 metres and preferably consult outside the room? Thank you. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u197	Mr Recourt had some feeling of discomfort, but I note that he does say that I can support this law. I hear the figure of 200 million, by the way. Mr Nicolaï is also constantly talking about this. I'm gonna argue with that. There is 130 million for the cessation scheme for fur farming and not 200 million. There's a hole in that. Finally, Mr Nicolaï's question as to whether it could not have been done on the basis of the covid law. What we are doing here is putting an end to an industry once and for all. Mr Nicolaï says "no," but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u198	I suggest the Minister talk a little bit. We don't have time to repeat the whole debate now... No, Mr. Nicolaï, I haven't given you the floor yet. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I suggest the Minister talk a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u199	I am going to try to answer from Mr Nicolaï's perspective. He says: can't you "closing" a sector now? That's what he actually says "like you do with other sectors," based on covid? Now everything is finished, so you could say: now you can no longer start on the basis of the argument of covid. My whole argument was based on the following. At a time when covid is over or less, or when there is a vaccine, which allows you to argue that it is no longer a risk to public health, your whole reasoning is gone. Then there is another option to start a fur animal farming. Then we have all had a debate here that we want fur animal farming to be stopped sooner than in three years' time, but the ground is not there. At the same time, it cites the explanatory statement and the answers saying that it is pointless to start again in 2021 if this law is adopted. It has been asked: what if they still keep animals, even though this law has not yet entered into force? Then it says: it's possible, but it's pointless, because you can't do anything with those animals at the time. You're waiting for a ban to come in, and it's really just costing you money. In that context, that response was provided, but with a view to the treatment and adoption of the law at any time in 2021. It has not been a basis for us to say that it is no longer going to be done. 'Cause I can't rule it out. The only way I can figure that out is with this law. That's why we filed it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u200	Thank you, Minister. Are you at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u201	Can I say one last word? I think that this may be the last debate I have with you for Christmas and old and new, unless you get all kinds of ideas to call me back to this Chamber. You don't have to, I say. Last year I was also one of the last, I believe, the last, who then turned off the light in the First Chamber with legal treatment. It was my pleasure to be present in your Chamber. I enjoyed the debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u202	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u203	Oh, the motions, the motions!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u204	Yeah, I think before the chairman drops the hammer. That's happened to me before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u205	That's it, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u206	We're really already in the Christmas mood. Well, forget my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u207	Mrs Faber is quite right. The Minister. There are two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u208	The first motion, the motion Faber c.s., we've already talked about it. The request is "take care of that..." In practical terms, I will help the local authorities, the public authorities, to ensure that permits and the like can be issued where they are being processed, but I cannot go into their responsibilities in relation to the considerations that are going to be made there. So I have to discourage this motion. The second motion, the motion with letter F, by Mrs Kluit, Mr Janssen and Mr Recourt. I just responded to that. With this law we arrange the termination of fur farming. This is about the future arrangement for conversion. He'll be coming to your room. Then you can learn about how we deal with it. I can already say that if there are rules on keeping animals, they apply to everyone and not exclusively to a group that now moves from mink to another category of animals. And then we just have to make sure that those animal welfare standards go up for everyone. We can have a debate on that. Sometimes I think: we have to do something about that in a number of parts. But you're not using this arrangement for that. That should really be in the Animal Law or in the Animal Decree keepers. Otherwise, we're going to get legal inequality that's gonna be hard to enforce in court. So I must discourage this motion. Now I'm really quitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u209	I was about to ask about the motions, but Mrs Faber was ahead of me. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u210	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-4.u211	Anybody want a note? Nor is that the case. We shall vote tomorrow at the end of the sitting on the motions tabled. I'm suspending the meeting pending the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
