ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u1	The debate is now on the budget of the National Growth Fund (35570-XIX), adoption of the fiscal statement of the National Growth Fund for the year 2021. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for Finance to the First Chamber. The Committees EZK, LNV and Finance have decided to deal with this proposal in a single period today. Following the conclusion of the debate, the legislative proposal can be dealt with further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u2	I give the floor to Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u3	Thank you, Mr President, also to both rulers for being here at this extremely busy time of Corona, including for them. I am glad that they have come here, because I am a real Schumpeterian and if we do not give a boost to technological innovation at all, if necessary with the destruction of the old industry, not as a goal, but as a result we will not have growth potential in our economy. Yesterday we received no critical response to some of our questions. We are pleased that there is finally a proposal that can be launched on 1 January. My group particularly welcomes the important improvements, such as the broader concept of prosperity rather than just GDP, the generation test and parliamentary control. Society is looking forward to the investment that could finally come off the ground. So it is no longer the narrow, technocratic plan, characterized by the illusion that only independent experts can make explicit or implicit choices. No matter how you turn it, if you want to spend 20 billion, it's an illusion that you wouldn't be able to choose. What does get priority and what doesn't get priority? Energy transition, roads, or public transport? Innovations for care? Or vegetable meat, as we have noted in the political considerations. It is ultimately a question of taxpayers' money. My group welcomes the complete reversal of the cabinet, because it is now a lot better than it seemed to be a year and a half ago. Who ultimately decides the choices in the country, especially when it comes to taxpayers' money? That is parliamentary democracy. Some say: it is a bad instrument, but there is no such thing as a better one. I think our new CDA list leader feels the same way. I say "our," but I mean the CDA's. Everything's for sale, Chairman, except me! Mr. Chairman. This proposal is still linked to the old idea of a technocratic fund "don't let politics interfere, because then it all gets better" and to the new idea, in which these social choices are anchored. I would like to clarify this, because these are very serious and serious points for our group. It's not just "peace on earth; it's Christmas." We want to talk about it seriously. All projects must go through a gateway, with the main requirement that they are not eligible for regular departmental budget lines. I understand that administratively, because otherwise, you'll get a pile-up of projects on the doorstep of the fund's committee. So it has to be something unique. But what happens to a project that meets all the substantive criteria, is through the gate, is highly appreciated by the committee as a contribution to GDP and has a perfect CO test, but is still rejected by the committee, because the pot is empty or because other projects are good and go ahead? So these can be very good projects. The answer I have received to this question is brief: then they can retable it to the committee. So they're back in line. Will they be out of play forever? That would be a shame, wouldn't it? So if they've finished that high in the ranking, they're good projects. My group believes that they should be allowed to report back to an ordinary departmental budget, to the SDE or whatever we all have for that. Or are they permanently out of the picture with the government? In that case, the better becomes the enemy of good. Is that how the Cabinet sees it? It is a dilemma for potential participants. They say: if I participate, I'm through the gate, but if I'm then rejected, I can't go to another departmental fund with my project. I would like to see an opening in the scheme for this. At the same time, it also affects budgetary law, because the cabinet cannot ban Parliament from putting promising projects on the agenda. My second point, Mr President. This is again about the narrow definition of GDP as a criterion. There may be projects that are super good for CO reduction, but perhaps slightly negative-neutral for GDP development. Then they lose weight, because GDP is the hardest lower limit. GDP needs to rise. However, it might be possible that this project, which is of course not profitable on the market, would not have been offered at all to the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology, could contribute to this enormous CO reduction, our national task. So companies that would otherwise have to cut down the regular chemical industry or would have to shrink due to their CO estimate, will be happy if there is such a project. This project didn't get through either. So there is also a need to weigh up what has the most impact on GDP. Therefore, there may be a minor difference, but in the context that can be good. Are we not penny wise and pound foolish when we reject such a project because it does not meet the GDP target, but it does result in a huge CO reduction? This can, of course, be achieved in this way for any social objective. Surely it is the day-to-day work of both rulers to weigh what is best for GDP? This project may not be so much, but it will have a social benefit, and vice versa. So I'd like to give you that consideration. The CO test is being tightened. I'm happy about that, but this doesn't happen until after the first round. My group believes that this should be done in the first round, i.e. from 1 January, because then the first projects will come. We are talking about major projects, so it would be a shame if we did not immediately take the highest CO test underneath. Otherwise, a project of this kind will have to recover its leg later and the high CO-test will have to be made true. So that would be a shame. The ministers say that this test will not take place until later this year. But you better put it up high. We all know, especially after this weekend's tightening in Brussels, that a CO test can hardly be high enough. And it's policy, otherwise it's gonna have to be after that. I'm rounding up. My group also calls for monitoring of the aspects I mentioned and, of course, of the other aspects that play a role. And not only after years, but preferably already during and immediately after the first round. I hope the cabinet can promise this. Still a small political point at the end. Haven't we lost a lot of time? From the first A4s, I believe Mr Hoekstra, a year and a half ago, that this should only happen, nothing has actually happened, except that fortunately the cabinet has now turned around and there is now a much better proposal for us. So wouldn't it have been better for the cabinet to take into account the criticism that came right away, not only from politics, but also from science? Perhaps we could have had this proposal a year earlier. In any case, I am glad that it is now going to go through departmental budgets and not through a separate budget line. That'll come later. I could also ask myself: why does a fund come later, because this is going well too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u4	Thank you, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u5	Mr President, I will conclude. I hope for satisfactory answers. As a real Schumpeterian, I hope that with this fund we will initiate the creative destruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u6	I call Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u7	Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, this draft law could have been dealt with in zero instalments, not because the issue is irrelevant. My group welcomes the letter from Mr Hoekstra and Mr Wiebes of 1 December, which explains some aspects of the National Growth Fund, and also the answers to the questions that came to us on 14 December. In particular, my group welcomes the improvements being made in the budgetary process and the clarification of how decisions are taken and accountability is made. This was also called for by the VVD Group at first instance during the last Financial Reviews, as Mr Hoekstra can remember. The Committee welcomes the fact that, after approval by the government, all investments are subject to parliamentary approval through individual supplementary budgets. It has also been clearly stated that the independent committee of wise men gives advice on individual projects, but that the decision is taken by the government, ensuring that all aspects of standing government policy, including, for example, the CO test, are taken into account. Let us leave it at that and do not continue to use conditions, political wishes and other kinds of bells and bells. This leads to further delays and obstacles and then the fund automatically becomes procyclical. Mr Crone did not want that at all. Hopefully we will return to economic normal in the course of next year. With this National Growth Fund, the VVD wants the Netherlands to become even more innovative, even more competitive and even more forward-looking than it already is. We look forward to the first initiatives that will be implemented through this fund. Finally, I have a somewhat different subject: how many investment projects have already been carried out by Invest-NL? Is there a substantial pipeline of potential projects? I'd like a reaction to that. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u9	Mr. Chairman. This could be almost a piece with the hammer, but not a hammer piece, because for that it is too big. It is remarkable that in this country, especially at the time of a major health and economic crisis, since yesterday, we know that the crisis is even deeper than we should fear. Whether that is vision or not, it is there: a National Growth Fund that has the ambition to invest many tens of billions in the long term. And it starts off well: 20 billion for the next four years to strengthen growth and thus also support for the economy and employment. As Mr Van Ballekom said, the budgetary process has improved. There was, of course, strong criticism from the Council of State and the Court of Auditors. That gave you a little red ears. I am familiar with this process from the past, but I too have been given red ears, because such opinions from the Council of State and the Court of Auditors are simply put aside by the cabinet. That doesn't deserve to be followed up when it comes to such big things. As Mr Van Ballekom said, it is good that all investments are now subject to parliamentary approval. In view of the criticism from the Court of Auditors and the Council of State, that parliamentary approval was a real failure. Then there is the independence of the committee. The government decides and thus the composition of the committee is a fact. I don't think we can or should change anything about that. The question is only Professor Eijffinger said that the other day there was also a question of whether there was sufficient expertise and independence. In particular, he mentioned an aspect of this expertise as sustainability. Is that considered sufficient? He also questioned the fact that there are directors of large companies in it. This can be done, provided, of course, the separation of interests is assured. He referred to the examples Norway and Singapore. I assume that will be looked at again in the future. For my group, it is important that we have a review and evaluation of what the first experiences after one or two years are. The fact that we now have 31 investment funds with Invest-NL does concern our group. In this respect, we share the concerns of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u10	I hear Mr Van Rooijen talking about similar funds in Norway and Singapore. It is very interesting that he is raising them, because they are very different structural funds. They invest money and there it is measured very well daily at the Norwegian fund you can even see in real time on the computer how much the fund is worth per second and professionals manage the money. That's a whole different story from what's going on here, where the return doesn't matter and nobody knows where the money's going. Why do you call these funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u11	I quoted Professor Eijffinger, whom I cannot further comment on. He mentioned this in particular because he pointed to the diversity that exists in these countries, where, for example, the sustainability aspect was so important. That is the only reason I have referred to it. It is absolutely true that there is also a great distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u12	Okay, then I get it. Mr Van Rooijen always likes to dive into the history of politics. I would like to point out to him that this decision was taken by the cabinet in 1964. I just lost the name of the cabinet, Marijnissen or something. Mr Van Rooijen now tells us that his name is Marijnen. Excuse me. Sorry, SP. The decision was whether the money from natural gas was invested in a sovereign wealth fund. That was looked at extensively at that time. Economic Affairs has decided not to do that. That is acclaimed by the welfare state, as we all know. That was the subject of discussion in the 1960s. Let me say this to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u13	I suggest we return to the National Growth Fund. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u14	I will not dive into the past, but I also experienced in the 1970s that, when the natural gas benefits went through the roof, they were not dealt with in the most balanced way, albeit I must say that, when we were faced with the oil crisis and unemployment in the Den Uyl cabinet, we decided to put 4 billion into the WIR fund. 4 billion was equal to 40 points of corporation tax if you let out the gas benefits. I'm still saying left-wing Cabinets rule right-wing and right-wing Cabinets rule left-wing. This may be of some concern to this cabinet in particular. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I don't want to enter the competition between Hoogduin and Teulings. One, Teulings, thinks it could be fairly limitless, but he doesn't mean that at all, I think. Hoogduin wants to hold on to the 60%. I think that an 80% standard is good, and we must continue to realise that debt must be repaid, even if there is an interest-free price tag attached to it. Mr. Chairman. Our group will wholeheartedly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u16	The clock is already running, I see, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u17	The clock always runs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u18	Haste rush is rarely good! Certainly not when it comes to spending as much as EUR 20 billion, with a fundamental form of state capitalism being launched in the Netherlands. Here in the First Chamber we sometimes discuss for days far less radical measures than this blank cheque of 20 billion. A number of coalition parties and also the PVV suddenly wanted to remove this issue even without meaningful discussion as a hammer piece in the First Chamber last week. Partly because of our perseverance, there has been a small debate of only 40 minutes, or EUR 500 million per minute. At this rate, we could have given their money to the many thousands of victims of the premium affair who have been waiting for their money for years. Mr. Chairman. When our group asked the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs last week exactly what the urgent importance was and why this National Growth Fund should be carried through the First Chamber with steam and boiling water, it remained silent for a full minute in the video meeting and no one had an answer. Apparently, many parties have an interest in getting to work with this EUR 20 billion green grabbelton as soon as possible. The National Growth Fund therefore seems more like a National Graai Fund, and taxpayers are again paying for it. Mr. Chairman. As every Dutchman knows, you can only spend your money once. It is precisely in this unprecedented global economic crisis, as a result of the coronavirus, that this money should have been spent on structural relief for middle-income and hard-working Dutch people in particular. More and more people are no longer able to make ends meet in the Netherlands, but we spend 20 billion on vague sustainability projects without a return target. "The hardworking Dutchman is ours," I heard a VVD senator shout in this Upper House yesterday. But forget it. The VVD gives the hard-earned tax money of the hard-working VVD-voting Dutchman to a number of old boys and former politicians, to fund their pet projects and GroenLinkse sustainability dreams. Mr. Chairman. There is much to do about the name of this fund. Is it the Wiebes fund, the Wopke-Wiebes fund, or the Wiepke fund? There is, in fact, almost more discussion about the name than about the content and the objectives. As far as our group is concerned, we should call this fund the McKinsey Fund, a theoretical study room solution, conceived on the drawing board by two former McKinsey consultants, namely Mr Wiebes and Mr Hoekstra. One of them even made it a partner at this illustrious consultancy firm. The other was the architect of the fees-wretched as Secretary of State for Finance. As Minister of Economic Affairs, he is the man who wants us off the gas and concluded an expensive Climate Agreement, for which the hard-working, tax-paying Dutchman can take the fall again. Such a consultant-student room solution is now reflected in the design of this National Growth Fund. We see a consultant approach that looks nice on paper, but the question remains as to what will become of it in practice. The consultants Wiebes and Hoekstra come with a roaring presentation and big plans; others are allowed to carry out the plans. Our group has repeatedly warned of the risks of this chosen approach. Mr. Chairman. We were pleased in that, and not by the least. Former Finance Minister Onno Ruding, also CDA member of Minister Hoekstra's party, said in Het Financieele Dagblad: "If you think it's important to spend money on something, you have to include it in the budget. Then you get a fair balance: how much priority is it really? Such a fund soon becomes a big grabbyton. When someone suddenly comes running in with a big bucket of money, everyone comes in like locusts. That's the way it is in politics." But also Sweer van Wijnbergen, former secretary-general of the Ministry of Economic Affairs of Minister Wiebes, and professor of economics at the UvA, warned extensively in an article in NRC Handelsblad with the ominous headline: "Don't let them throw away 20 billion." I quote Sweer van Wijnbergen on the Wopke-Wiebes fund. "The (...) name arose as a result of a childish quarrel over who first put forward this bright idea. Whoever came up with it, we don't know, but we know it's an exceptionally bad plan." Thus top economist Van Wijnbergen. Van Wijnbergen, like our group, is also very concerned about the selection of investment projects. I quote: "The only further test after lobbying companies arrive with projects is (...) a typical polder advisory committee (...) full of more or less large names but without relevant expertise............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These are not my words; those are the words of Mr Wiebes' former Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Van Wijnbergen. Our group shares this sharp analysis of the former Secretary-General. Mr. Chairman. Last year, we held a wide-ranging debate in the First Chamber on the 2.5 billion euros that the cabinet made available to a similar investment fund of former Finance Minister Wouter Bos. This fund is called Invest-NL. Mr Van Ballekom also referred to it. I looked back this morning on my first term of the debate on Invest-NL, on 12 November 2019. Many of the objections I raised there against Invest-NL apply mutatis mutandis and to a greater extent to the National Growth Fund. Only the National Growth Fund is ten times bigger. Invest-NL was launched big, under the motto: impact investment. The impact is limited, as far as we can see now, especially to creating a large staff of 50 people and a lot of overhead. My question to both ministers is therefore: what has the Invest-NL investment fund invested in over the past year? What activities and amounts are involved? Invest-NL was sold to us to solve market failures. The Ministers were not able to explain to us exactly how they were supposed to do this at the time. The National Growth Fund is now going to do so on a ten-fold scale. It invests in such things as "knowledge developments, research, development and innovation, and infrastructure." Of course, all this happens with efficient CO pricing and to increase our earning capacity. My question to both ministers is: how is that earning capacity measured before you invest these billions? Such decisions are surrounded by enormous uncertainty. My question to the rulers is: how is it dealt with in concrete terms? How can the cabinet ensure that the billions here do not disappear like snow before the sun in the pockets of sustainability illusionists, who naturally preach the managers of the billions of dollars that the taxpayer has coughed up to eat out of the billion-dollar dungeon? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is clear that we do not see this National Growth Fund in its present form and fear that it will eventually end in a walhalla for consultants and sustainability illusionists, and in a tear trap for future generations. We therefore want an emergency brake to be added to this National Growth Fund, as with the 750 billion EU Restoration Fund. But that must be an emergency brake which, unlike the emergency brake of the EU Restoration Fund, actually works. That is why we are tabling the next motion. The: Mr Otten, Mr De Vries and Mr Baljeu proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government intends to spend EUR 20 billion on the National Growth Fund;]] [[noting that this entails significant and significant risks for the Dutch taxpayer, both now and in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt or supplement the plans for the National Growth Fund in such a way that an appropriate emergency braking procedure is added to the governance of the National Growth Fund so that effective action can be taken if the risks no longer outweigh the investments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XIX-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u19	Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the discussion with the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u20	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Essers, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u21	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing Mr Atsma in this debate, who wishes everyone happy holidays. Over the next five years, the cabinet will allocate EUR 20 billion for sustainable, innovative investments that contribute to economic growth. Knowledge development, infrastructure and research, and development and innovation are the main focus areas. In this context, the following question arises. Mr Otten already indicated that. What exactly is the difference with Invest-NL's ambitions? The proposals are assessed by an independent expert assessment committee. Projects should not be assessed solely on the basis of objectives and criteria. The question is whether there is also a country-by-country distribution to be taken into account. After all, it is a national fund. Mr. Chairman. The consequences of the current crisis make it even more clear that prosperity and growth are not self-evident. However, this does not mean that the Growth Fund is an emergency fund. Other measures have been taken to this end. When it comes to awarding projects, politics is at some distance. That has its advantages, but is this approach outside parliament? As far as we are concerned, that is not the issue. In the end, Parliament can say 'yes' or 'no', either by agreeing or not to supplementary budget proposals. The proposal for the institution law for a budget fund will be submitted before the summer of 2021. The distribution of infrastructure between the Mobility Fund and the Growth Fund will then also become clear. Does this mean that no infra-projects will be granted for the first and second instalments? The question remains what exactly is the position and role of the most concerned rulers. Where are they now in this process? I ask this because the note published yesterday on the basis of the report states that the projects selected by the committee are in principle taken over by the cabinet. What are we supposed to do with the words 'in principle'? What are the criteria on which the cabinet is going to test again? Mr. Chairman. In summary, the CDA Group still has a few questions, but above all much appreciation for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. Essers. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u23	Thank you, Mr President. For the SGP, there are three points of major importance for the National Growth Fund as it stands. First of all, this is the possibility for Parliament to take early action. Furthermore, this is the impossibility of financing plans that would otherwise run through normal budgets or funds. Thirdly, this is the view of an institutional law with strict investment frameworks. I'd like to check these three points. There is a need for Parliament to take early action on the brakes. We have also asked a written question on this point and it is an essential point for us. In fact, we have little idea what kind of projects will pass through all the gates and committees. We do hear about all kinds of infrastructure projects that we do not think should be financed through the fund. I think the government's on that line, too. If it turns out that the desired projects are not supported, Parliament should be able to simply pull the plug. I think that is the case now. I would like to hear a further confirmation from the Minister, because certainly a notion such as 'it should not fall within an existing regime of government' gives me some cause for concern. Doesn't that give you too much room to handle the conditions? Is the Minister prepared to take a good look at all the criteria, including the institutional law, so that the fund is used for what it really is intended for? Secondly, the impossibility of financing plans that would otherwise be carried out through normal budgets or through funds. The second condition is that the fund is really additional to normal budgets or funds. Does the Minister believe that this is now well secured and that, for example, infrastructure or housing projects are not financed through this fund which normally run through the budgets? The third point I would like to highlight is the view of the institution law with the strict investment framework. Originally, it was not intended to anchor the fund in an institutional law. Later on, the proposal to introduce such a law within two years was adopted, but in the Lower House a motion was passed by the member Stoffer, which already leads to an institutional law towards the Chambers before the summer of 2021. That is what my group looks forward to. It is good that the Minister, in reply to our written questions, indicates that the current investment frameworks and criteria are taken as the starting point in shaping this institutional law. I have two further questions. Does this mean that the investment framework and criteria will not be designed more flexibly? And is the Minister open to giving stricter form to the investment framework and criteria under the Institution Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u24	Mr Schalk is following some of the points that I have also raised, but he stresses the need to make tough limits: something that is through the gates of this fund should, by definition, not be eligible for the regular budget lines. That could mean that very good projects that do not fit within the 20 billion will lose weight. Wouldn't that be a shame to him? Shouldn't there be a back door or a front door? Otherwise, a lot of projects will not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u25	My group is in favour of having a clear framework so that you cannot have all kinds of excuses, backdoors and front doors. That is why the institution law has been called for. Just an open gate where it's clear to everyone what fits and what doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u26	Isn't that an illusion? Because the front door, or the gate, is open to access into the fund. But if you are then expelled again, you will no longer be able to go to any government fund, not even to a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u27	Then you shouldn't want to get in if you don't hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u28	So then you share my fear that some good projects will not be registered with the fund, because they think "that's the only chance I have; if I miss them, I won't get anything done"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u29	I don't think we should come up with a National Growth Fund where you can see through all kinds of tricks if you can get your money there. It's only meant for what it's meant for. In my view, we need to ensure that there is a clear framework. In my group's view, the institutional law can be very helpful in this respect. Hence my questions as to whether they are being designed more strictly, so that no excuses or backdoors or front doors can be used which ultimately lead to the wrong use of this fund. Mr. Chairman. As far as the SGP Group is concerned, that was the input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u30	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, Mr Vendrik has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u31	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the GroenLinks Group is concerned, the ultimate goal of government policy is to promote broad prosperity, here and now, elsewhere and later. That is the framework that the government should be doing every day. The government has at its disposal a wide range of instruments, public institutions on which it sways, budgets, fiscal policy and all kinds of instruments to implement that government policy. All these instruments should be at the service of this objective every day. It also includes the possibility for the public authorities to set up an investment fund with a view to the future in order to promote broad prosperity. We've known for years that you can't leave the future to the market. It's up to all of us to make it. That is a dry observation and not a reproach. Markets work with a limited horizon. If you want to ignore that, you'll have to step in as a government. This fund is therefore welcome as far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, all the more so as we are currently faced with huge changes in climate and biodiversity. We have an ugly legacy of 30 years of policy that has led to growing inequality and the splitting up of groups in society. Here too, today's economy is not doing enough. That is the general starting point for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in assessing this fund. We welcome the government's initiative. Last year during the General Financial Reviews, the fund was only worth a quarter of a page in the Millions Note. At that time, I specifically sought the debate with the Minister of Finance with this philosophy. I called that fund "a broad welfare fund, a transition fund" at the time. Of course, that was not about the name, but it was about what the legitimacy of such a fund is and what it should be for on earth. I will come back to that briefly, because the Minister of Finance said several times in the debate of that day in November: 'But this leads to a Christmas tree and I do not want a Christmas tree, because a Christmas tree called 'Grabbelton' is a fund without purpose and without focus. At the end of the day, everyone picks their share and eventually we're nowhere at all." But I'm asking the Minister of Finance today if that focus has worked. My view then and now is that there is a focus when you set up that fund for projects that serve that great, sustainable, inclusive transition. I see the cabinet is choosing a slightly different layout. I do not want it to be just words today, so I would ask the Minister of Finance to reflect briefly on this. In fact, I think it starts there in the end, even more than in all kinds of safeguards surrounding the governance of the fund; who at what point on which project in independence who can judge what and how gates to the money are or are not guarded. Good governance starts with a clear focus. I don't think that's a point of discussion. The question is above all: has that been enough? I would like a response from the Minister of Finance to that. Mr. Chairman. This fund has been discussed extensively in the House of Representatives. I believe that the residue of all these talks was dropped in the letter of 1 December, in which a number of adjustments were made to the original plan of the cabinet on six points. This will monitor the Fund's objective. The cabinet is more insistent that it is indeed ultimately about broad prosperity. I'll repeat that just for the sake of precision. I can see that, can't I? This is, of course, of great importance not only for my party, but also for many outside this First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely in order to shape this broad prosperity that the evaluation of projects in the fund will now work with an efficient CO price. A generational test will be carried out on projects. There will be a council for the future. Parliament's budget law, Second and First Chambers, is respected. And we're gonna have fun with a real founding law later. My group has insisted on all these points, and it is good that the cabinet has also responded to them. So we will see in the founding law what the governance of the fund looks like in more detail. But we cannot wait because we want the cabinet to be able to get the fund started quickly with a view to that precious future for future generations. We would like to join this afternoon's debate, and we would like to give the government the broad thrust of the report. There are two further questions for completion here, first about that efficient CO price. My group is still a little confused by the answer. Again, it is good that this efficient CO price is being included, as is increasingly common in business. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, The question is, which one? The cabinet says we should ask the planning agencies. That's good. For this purpose, the planning agencies have the 2016 WLO. It'll be updated next year. That's all fine. That's where the internal CO price is rolling out that's going to be calculated. From the last WLO, which would now be in force, a CO price will roll from €100 to €500. I think that's real, looking at what a good internal CO price should be. Again, it's still up to the planning agencies, but I get this order of magnitude. In my group, the cabinet creates some confusion by referring to the SMEA in relation to the truck tax, which is charged with a CO price of €20 to €80. It's kind of a big deal. The lower that price, the less there really is about projects that meet that notion of broad prosperity, including the sustainable transition we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u33	I therefore ask the Cabinet for an even clearer explanation on that point. Then there's my final question. I understand that the cabinet does not force the committee that assesses the projects to use European taxonomy. Okay, but it would be very nice if the cabinet expressly informed the committee that that is an opportunity, because we have taxonomy in Europe for a reason. I would also like a mild commitment from both ministers on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u35	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u36	Mr. Chairman. Hoekstra and I are gonna do it together. I'm gonna have to put this table in order, like this. As far as the objectives, the background and the economic aspects are concerned, I will do the answer. Hoekstra comes to the process of adoption, all the procedural questions and all the budgetary aspects. I try to understand as much as possible in the general argument, but some questions have also been answered. I have them all here on a piece of paper and I walk them as far as I'm concerned, and then I walk them off. Before I go into specific questions that have been asked here, it is important to look at why we are actually doing this. Look, over the past two decades, we've had prosperity increases. There were some peaks and descents in.... we went down once and we went up again.... but over the last twenty years we have had prosperity rise. An important part of this increase in prosperity has not ended up in the pockets of the people present here, but also not in the pockets of the households. It didn't end up with the companies either, because the AIQ has remained roughly the same in the Netherlands. It went to the government. It has gone to public spending that each party had in its election program: the care, the old age, often a little more Defence, and some other useful things. We were all there before and that's where it went. Households didn't get that much of it. Of course, all this is also for the benefit of households. You can't say it's gone. But it felt bad for a lot of people. Those have also become themes. We're all talking about middle class, but that's because of this. This is what we're talking about the middle class, because this is what happened. We were all behind it, we were all in favour of it and we knew it before, but this is what happened. For the next 20 years, that's what's gonna happen again if we don't do something. There are two reasons for this. The first is that in the western world in an ageing country like the Netherlands, the prosperity and growth prospects are very low: roughly 1%, and then later from a level affected by corona. That's what we're looking for. That is not so much, because that is about the order of magnitude in which collective spending is about to rise again. The old age continues with the ageing of the population. Care also continues, partly as a result of ageing and partly as a result of the fact that we can and want to heal more and more. So it's just gonna go on. That's one cause. The second reason is that the way we amass our prosperity is no longer of this time. We must recognize that widely. The molecules are flying around us: not only CO, but also nitrogen. In all kinds of ways it's running a little spoke. We have to do something about that. It's possible. I'm not pessimistic about that at all, but we have to do it. That means an effort. An effort in financial terms is called an investment. That's what we're gonna do. This is because the way we amass our prosperity is no longer of this time and we do not like the extent of future prosperity. That's why we're doing this. That has absolutely nothing to do with state capitalism. State capitalism would only come about if Hoekstra started a company and started trading and manufacturing services and products. But that is not the case. It has always been the case, in every capitalist system in the world, that we have experienced prosperity and well-being by governments working for infrastructure, for education, but also for research and innovation. Those were always important public tasks. In fact, in terms of knowledge, innovation and research, the insights that there is a public task have only become stronger. Read Mazzucato - you have nothing to do during Christmas, because we are all at home. I mean, I'm not gonna praise all of her works, but basically there's just academic evidence that governments can do something about the country's prosperity, the broad prosperity, which a market doesn't automatically provide. And that has nothing to do with state capitalism. This has to do with prosperity in a beautiful and civilized country like ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u37	I am listening to this with some increasing surprise. The increase in the collective burden burden has been enormous among the Rutte Cabinets, which is now approaching 40%. And Minister Wiebes presents it as if it were some kind of process that happened to us and that was inevitable. The key problem is that 84 billion euros, every year, are spent on the Dutch government, and on the administration alone. That's a far too high overhead. Any investor can tell you that if you spend 84 billion, more than 11% of your income on your company's administrative organisational model alone, that's not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u38	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u39	Why didn't the Rutte Cabinets do something about that? They've only made it go further. And now you say: the solution is even more public money. That's carrying water to the sea, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u40	I believe that this sum is added to the amount of the police, the cost of the whole taxation and so on. Look, I didn't take care of it, nor any cabinet, that we're gonna grow old. I have not ensured that much more can be done with care, that we also want more and more care and that many more people need care. Those are things we were all with. And it's in every election program, perhaps with the exception of the speaker's election program here. But it's been in all the middle programs. We have all embraced an orderly old age, good care and good infrastructure. We've always fought for that. And that is a logical wish, but in a society like the Netherlands, this leads to collective spending. And the only way to do something about that is not to cut back on care or rob people of their old age, but to grow the cake as a whole in a sensible, future-proof way. That's what this discussion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u41	Well, when we talk about election programs: "€1,000 relief for every Dutchman," and I remember a few of them that didn't come up. But you are talking about care and old age provision; it is as if we are in a pension debate here. We are talking about the National Growth Fund. Why is more public money, with which you increase the collective burden even further, a recipe that works? It's not gonna work. It's not gonna work. What you yourself are saying is that this money must go to the people through relief. Why are you persistently refusing to study this option? That would be much better for the economy. And you could finance that by cutting down on that public administration. So that doesn't include the police or anything like that. I have checked all this out, and I can send it all to you; the CPB has calculated it exactly. Why do you keep going on this path, is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u42	All kinds of international comparisons and research show that, in order to grow and maintain its level of prosperity, the Netherlands has been underinvesting for quite a long time, for example in research and development, in education and education renewal. We're going down the ladders. That has nothing to do with state capitalism. We must ensure that, if we want to remain one of the wealthiest countries in the Netherlands, our children are at the top of the educational ladders. That is not the case at the moment. We must ensure that the best knowledge and innovation is here, and not elsewhere. Other countries do that, and they also have an important and larger public share in it. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u43	Mr Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u44	I fully agree with the Minister that the quality of education needs to be drastically increased. But you don't do that with a growth fund, you do that by selecting better teachers and paying them better, by stomping smaller classes, by top universities out of the ground, by selecting at the gate, you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u45	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u46	Not with a growth fund. You are all creating problems that this growth fund cannot solve. We recognise these problems, but this is not the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u47	Finally, Minister, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u48	Well, thank you for listing the D66 election programme. But that is also part of a renewal of what we are doing about education, the renewal of what we are doing about increasing knowledge. This includes innovation in an inspiring way. The Netherlands has a number of things in which we are the undisputed leader on earth in the field of knowledge. Take the agricultural knowledge, take the cluster around Eindhoven and a number of other things. We need more of that, and that's what this is about. Mr. Chairman. A growth strategy has been drawn up for this and this Growth Fund is nothing but the provider of occasional capital for some of these spearheads. Not all, because, I agree with Mr Otten on this, an important part of these tasks is also simply part of the regular policy and budget. Each cabinet should put its best foot in it. That is, in a sense, a small politically awkward point with this fund. It's kind of twilighting through here, too. It's usually, especially in election time, appealing to do something for the prosperity of today, the grassroots of today, the wishes of today, the needs of today, the image of today or the story in today's newspapers. But this isn't about now. This is about a generation that is not sitting at the table here, that is not following this debate, that is not interested in it at all and that is doing very other things. And that generation we are now serving with that prosperity. That prosperity looks different than our prosperity, and that is a good thing. This is how we have always progressed. Then we have the different criteria. We have left behind the story that it is either broad prosperity or GDP growth. It started with the ability to earn and the way we amass our prosperity. Those are exactly the two aspects that we are considering here. But it is also, I say, in the direction of Mr Crone, a matter of earning power. It is not fair to put that next generation with the corresponding public debt of this fund, but not with the corresponding earning capacity. That's not fair. So it had started to maintain our prosperity and to give the generation of later that they themselves experience something of that prosperity growth and to ensure that they can cope with the cost of ageing. That is the monetary part of prosperity, and that is indeed an objective in itself. Of course, we do not want to invest to ensure that our broad prosperity goes down or does not go up. That is a secondary criterion. But I don't want to exchange them for each other. I understand that Mr Crone's suggestion was born against the backdrop of creative destruction, but I think that in relation to this fund it is rather a witness of destructive creativity. It's en-and-and-and in his direction, I'd like to put it out there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u49	I thank the Minister for this answer. I am concerned with the trade-off and that you sometimes have projects about which you say: they are not profitable in the market and probably do not increase GDP, so that fund does. This removes other problems from the board of other companies or even from entire industries. I mentioned CO as an example, but it can also apply to others. Of course, innovative investments in healthcare can also lead to both GDP growth, see Philips, while at the same time reducing healthcare costs in the longer term. This fund can be helpful in this respect, can't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u50	I refer to the words "not profitable." I think I can now reach a moment in the debate in which I come in his direction by contradicting Mr Crone. It's not about private returns, it's not about financial returns. That's what Invest-NL is for, another very different point I'm coming up with. Questions have been asked about this too. This is about social efficiency, in the sense that the future generation will earn more than the corresponding public debt would justify. So it's not about return. Anything that yields private returns should go on its own. If we were to do that, we would end up in Mr Otten's state capitalism. Mr Crone does not want that and neither do I. This is about public good. This also means that it has to meet both the demand for earning power and the demand for broad prosperity. And then there may be projects that don't actually do anything for earning power, but they do for example for CO2 reduction. Maybe it's even a very efficient CO2 reduction project. We have a pot for that. The largest subsidy scheme of the Empire is the SDE and in it these projects are weighed against each other, auctioned, and this project then comes at the top. That's regular policy. If we were dependent on our climate policy for occasional fund formation, we would have been on the wrong path. We have a different policy for that, a regular policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u51	I do agree in terms of'social return','social cost-benefit analysis' and what is more, but I think I would like to hear from that committee. Some projects will be just on the edge or over. I wonder what you'd say. Then you might also say: it is a shame that this work does not go on, while perhaps it is slightly weaker on the narrow concept of GDP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u52	I get it. Mr Crone has just introduced a huge cramp in the abdomen with his story that you can't go anywhere once it's been rejected. Mr Hoekstra will soon deny it. The criteria are not about what does not fit into the regular budget. They are about what can be done from this fund. If the executive then thinks that it is a fantastic project for the policy objectives, it may of course fit in with the regular budget. We will not stand in the way of that. Mr Hoekstra will see if it fits into the regular budget. That's his regular job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u53	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u54	I like to finish with this. I put my thumb up, but you don't see that in the Acts. I think this is the right answer. I am not talking about Mr Hoekstra's deep pockets. Then it is a normal budget weighting for such a project.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u55	Yeah, that's right. And that is what Mr Hoekstra is going to confirm, because then it really counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u56	Mr Crone raised his thumb. Now it's in the Acts. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u57	Now break my nugget! I have just heard Minister Wiebes say: unlike Invest-NL, where there are immense demands for investment. On 12 December last year, we had a whole debate on this in the old Upper House. Then was the idea that Invest-NL invests where the market fails. Market failure was an important element in Invest-NL's investment criteria. Now I hear the Minister say: no, it is about efficiency objectives. What's the deal? I can't tie a rope to it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u58	It's both possible. Private parties may not achieve that return without any public support and without any stamp from public parties, whereas the project is actually very useful. Take, for example, a heat grid. When you build a heat grid, you know, when you look at the horizon, there's a market for it, because people will have to be able to heat their homes. Very useful. But the parties that are starting to do so will perhaps be concerned if Leiden is in on it, whether Rotterdam is not backing down and whether there will be permission to lay down a tube here. They have legitimate concerns, because they never fully know whether they can trust the public process in all these different municipalities. At the moment Invest-NL participates and adds some public coordination, confidence in the project increases, reduces the weighted average cost of capital and becomes a profitable project for the government as well as for private parties. So it's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u59	It is particularly funny that the Minister cites a heat grid as an example of market failure. At the Zuid-Holland heat grid, from Rotterdam towards Leiden, hundreds of millions disappeared. The entire investigation in the province of Zuid-Holland has now been declared secret. All kinds of aldermen have resigned. It's a fiasco from here to Tokyo. In this respect, it is true that the market has completely failed, but Invest-NL cannot correct that either. If the project is not financially viable, nothing will help, not even an investment by Wouter Bos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u60	I don't hear a question. I suggest that the Minister continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u61	This is an illustration of what market failures can look like in practice. I'll leave the locusts for what they are. Mr Hoekstra will explain why this construction was chosen precisely to ensure that it does not become a grabby pot and that the locusts cannot access it. We will do so. I'll be on Invest-NL in a minute. That is not what the debate is about, but I am going to try to give you the latest state of affairs. Mr Ester specifically asked about the difference. There is a very clear difference, because one is essentially a private financial return that the government participates in in order to avoid the coordination problems and to provide public security, but it is still essentially an investment that delivers private financial return. However, this is a matter of public return. Invest-NL is of course a revolving fund, while here it is an injection into something that is useful and which comes back in the form of social return. That return is basically called the broad-welfare effect. So they're very different funds. They can't be compared at all and they're not communicating vessels. One doesn't compete with the other either. They are complementary to each other and certainly not substitutes. A number of other points are for Mr Hoekstra. Mr Schalk's questions will also be taken out by my colleague. I hope I have answered Mr Vendrik's question on broad prosperity sufficiently. The efficient CO price. This one will always change. The intention is that we will always have the most recent CO price that the CPB has considered. They have several. There is a bandwidth and there is an illustrative price. I think Mr Vendrik has taken the illustration. One can make room for the other. We're just following the CPB. It'll always come up with different numbers. The situation keeps changing; you don't ask for an update for nothing. That's the way we should do it. His question about taxonomy was not entirely clear to me. By mutual agreement, it seemed as if it was more in the field of Hoekstra. Maybe he needs a little explanation of that question. I understood that from a brief discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u62	Still, let's talk about the internal CO price. The cabinet says it's just following the planning agencies. I very much agree with that and that the planning agencies determine the price for each project. This prize is updated once in a while, like next year when a new WLO comes out. All right. My group is confused by the fact that the cabinet comes in response with a different price than the internal price of the planning agencies. It's $100 to $500. The cabinet gives an example of the SMEA truck tax where the bill is calculated. I do not understand why, but that is not the case with a price of €20 to €80.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u63	Let's abstract from this. The impression was that in that case the efficient CO price designated by the CPB would have been taken into account. Let me just abstract the example. Mr Vendrik and I agree that the efficient CO price indicated by the CPB should be taken. There's a bandwidth in there. How we deal with that, we need to see for a while. But we follow the planning agencies in this. Let's just abstract the example. Perhaps the example has been chosen a little badly, but we agree on the principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u64	Mr. Vendrik, is that him? Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u65	Invest-NL, of course, that is not what the debate is about. That's a completely different type. Different funding has been made. Some of them run in parallel with things that were also eligible for part of the EZK-instrumentarium. I can't quite separate that, I couldn't figure that out so fast. In the joint venture it is an investment of about 500 million. This includes, for example, the Sustainable SME Fund. At the beginning, it was explicitly agreed that SMEs would also be eligible. There's an innovative startup, but it hasn't been published yet, so I can't name it yet. There are innovative startups in the medical sector, one in cybersecurity. The Dutch Future Fund has been set up, which is a kind of venture capital branch for startups. Another deep tech cut has been made for innovative start-ups. There are still several investments in the pipeline. In the period since its inception, of course, work has been done on both the creation of an organisation and the filling of a pipeline. But you don't jacket an investment through it in three months. I'm looking at Mr Van Ballekom now, who nods understandingly, because he's had this kind of thing going on. The lead time has taken some time, but it's starting to start now. It has to be said, however, that at the beginning we had identified a number of areas, but then we distracted the fund a little from them, by drawing attention to the fact that corona can also provoke certain start-ups and investments that would fit in the portfolio, but just deviate from the focus. So we have, for useful reasons, also distracted them a little from what they were originally doing. I think I'll be through the questions that have been asked to me. The other questions will be taken over by Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u66	Thank you, Minister. I now turn to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u67	Mr. Chairman. I will take care of the questions in my policy area that have remained. The first deadline was short, but there were also many comments and relatively few questions, so I think I can keep it relatively brief. Minister Wiebes has once again illustrated the importance of investing in future earning capacity. Everything we say, we say on behalf of the whole cabinet, but I would like to put a very strong line on this. We are going to make 20 billion available over the next five years, really on the assumption that this will give us an impetus to future prosperity. On the one hand, it has been deliberately chosen to set the fund at some distance from politics and, on the other hand, to ensure, as it should be in a democracy, that the fund is fully subject to the gravity of parliamentary democracy. We felt that, in view of the fact that the fund could have been rolled out with some speed, it would certainly have been sensible to have done so. At the same time, following the dialogue with the Council of State, following the dialogue with the Court of Auditors and following the dialogue with Mr Van Ballekom and others here in this House and also on the other side, we have noted that it would be wise to make some fundamental changes to the draft. Actually, we did two things, you could say. First of all, we come up with the Institution Act. I've just experienced broad support for that logic. I think this is also an answer to many of the questions that have just been asked. The advantage of that Institution Act is that there is much more certainty, much more guarantees and that there is a much better legal basis for this vehicle. I know from experience how much this house attaches to it. At the same time, it is wise that we deal with this now and not wait for the Institution Act, because we all know the history with Invest-NL. In the end, a really beautiful idea has seen the light of day, but also a lot of frustration along the way, because many thought that it took a very long time. We all know that the whole parliamentary process is not regulated in a curse and a sigh. The second adjustment is that we do not spend directly from the fund, but that, pending the Institution Act, we only contribute to other budgets in the coming period, which are thus subject to parliamentary approval. Only along that route will we do it, and that is the second fundamental change in the legal field. In doing so, I have addressed a number of questions from the various spokesmen. Mr Schalk asked for confirmation on top of what I have just said that Parliament has the opportunity to pull the plug on the fund. Absolutely. I can reassure him on that point. In any case, Parliament has the possibility not to authorise a budget or parts of a budget. I do not want to remind Mr Schalk, but he has even greater resources to force a budget or a govern ment. Mr Schalk then asked about additionality. That is a key point in the discussion. It must be additionality, otherwise the regular budget should be sufficient. It must be additional and there are a lot more criteria, Mr Wiebes. Mr Crone was worried, but in fact Minister Wiebes has already told us the answer to a problem that had not yet arisen at all and that in our perception, in reality as we know it, there is no such thing as a proactive solution. Mr Crone actually asked: aren't you finished forever if you can't get it through this route? There is no question of that, because it still leaves open the possibility to follow your way through the normal route, but in which you do run into political reality and government agreements and against regiments who may have other hobbies. So it's not like if you get zero at this gateway, for now and for all eternity, you have a lover behind your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u68	I have derived the problem from the form of logic. 'Cause you were only allowed through the fund's gateway if you couldn't qualify it for a regular budget. I understand that, because you didn't want to have all those ministers and that everything is being thrown into the fund. But the opposite reasoning is just as logical: if you are qualified for the fund by the gateway, then you are rather rejected for the ordinary budgets. But I am very pleased with your two answers: two thumbs! They are now included in the report. If you're rejected for the fund, you're just gonna get back in line. That was also the written answer yesterday in one sentence: then you have to re-table it. So I now take the re-submission as: wherever you see only one chance. Of course, every political and economic consideration applies and you still do not have a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u69	I want to stick to my own words. It might say something about Mr Crone's political orientation, because he says: wherever you see a place or a pot or a line, you stand in it and try to get your money. That is a rather different approach to what the cabinet usually shows. I would like to maintain every millimeter of my answer. But the summary and treatment of the interruption was even more generous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u70	The thumb for Minister Wiebes stays up for me, but as far as your thumb is concerned, I start to hesitate and the thumb goes down. But I mean, seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u71	I mean everything I say here in all seriousness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u72	I was joking, but I won't do that anymore. If the project has been approved by the committee, then it is a good project. Only that 20 billion might have been up and down. It can be, whether it's the Lelyline or a CO project. The initiators of such a project can indeed, even in your words, say: then you just go to a minister. But the Minister is right to consider whether he has money for it and whether he likes it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u73	The Minister makes all the considerations, because they relate to the government agreement, to parliamentary majorities and to other things in the budget. He comes to his own policy area, and in the relations in the Netherlands coalition country, then automatically to the choice that is always there, namely the choice in scarcity. I think we can all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u74	Exactly, thank you. Two thumbs!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u75	Thank you. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u76	I will not put up and down like some sort of Roman emperor's thumbs as Mr Crone does. But I do have a question for the Minister, because I now understand very well how he must have felt at the beginning of this year and in the summer with that frugal four. You're in a process with that recovery plan, you're in a dynamic, you don't really want to do that, and you have to figure out a way to stop it. Then you think: the emergency brake. So that's when the emergency brake came. Creative. Whether this emergency brake works with the EU's 750 billion recovery plan is Question 2. I don't think so. If you pull the emergency brake here, that train in Paris won't stop. That's why we came up with the next idea. If all this is not as brilliant as Mr Wiebes's and you's brilliant plans, then the political reality is that it will not be stopped. Then it's gonna go through with it. There are prestige issues, you name it. All these funds in the past have shown that. I don't have to name them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u77	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u78	So how's it gonna stop? If it doesn't work and it really goes off the rails, then someone should be able to pull the emergency brake. That is why we have tabled our motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u79	I think I'm gonna have to sort it out. Mr. Otten would like some kind of fast forward to his own motion. I'll get to that. So much has been said. Let me do justice to all those remarks. I begin with the image of Mr. Otten as Roman emperor. I think he liked that, too. This does not require any reflection on the part of the cabinet, but I have the feeling that it remains with more of those present. The second point is that my European discussion was not about this emergency brake, but about the conditions under which you could use the ESM in March, April and May. The third point is that the remark about the emergency brake was about the negotiations that the Prime Minister has conducted on what we are going to call the Recovery Fund. I'll be right back on the motion. Then I'll come back to Mr Crone. He asked whether the government has wasted an unnecessary amount of time, partly due to discussion of the Institution Act. I honestly think the opposite has happened. When you see how long the average legislation lasts and you realize that the conception of this idea was about fifteen or sixteen months ago it was also published in last year's Prinsjesdag pieces and you also realize that the corona crisis came through, which is certainly not a small thing, then it happened quite frankly very quickly. If we had gone all the way through the Institution Act, there would now be officials writing loudly in one or both departments. These officials would probably also be dealing with the corona problem. This cabinet wouldn't have done anything about it. I agree with Mr Crone that Parliament has also helped us to attach importance to the Institution Act. I think he was trying to get me out of this one time. So I'll do it right away. I think we have found a good combination here of a strong legal foundation on the one hand and something of speed on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u80	I would like to save you more time: why an Institution Act? That will also take the next two years. We can do anything this way, can't we? The committee nominates, approves the cabinet and the parliament, and then it runs through departmental budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u81	Because it is also a broad political wish, I also thought in Mr Crone's circles that we should keep our distance from the normal process. The more you make it part of the normal process, the sooner you will of course experience some of the disadvantages that we have at all in the normal budget. To be honest, I thought that this was the middle course, although of course there is no such thing as a suspicious end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u82	This Mr Crone is always a bit independent, even in his own circle. At Invest-NL, I have been incredibly in favour of independence. That's what you do with corporations. That's funding. Independence, even without an Institution Act, is also maintained here. For the next two years, too, that committee is going to advise independently, you are going to give an opinion and Parliament is going to give an opinion. The department is only carrying out budget-wise, isn't it? The Minister can't say: I can do that project, but don't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u83	In my view, there is such a broad desire in both chambers of the States-General to lay a solid legal foundation here, because it is also widely recognised that this really is a speciality in substance, to use that word once again. This is different from the normal negotiations; it is different from the normal ones. If you're very honest, and you look at the rich budget, you can see that 95%, 96%, 97% or maybe 98% of the expenses are actually the same, plus a little or a little bit, compared to the year before. And this is different. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mr Essers. He asked me: does this mean that there are no infra-projects for the first and second instalments? The Ministry of IenW is one of the coordinating departments for the current round, called the pilot phase. Infrastructure projects can indeed be submitted for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u84	The Minister talked about the normal process, the normal budgetary process. What fascinated me from the beginning, when this plan came out a year and a half ago, apart from all the aspects that we have already discussed in Parliament's debate, is that of course everyone is aware that in the normal budgetary procedure there should also be cover for expenditure. This is not the case here, because it is a separate matter. Doesn't the Minister see, in the coming times, when it comes to balancing the ordinary budget and what happens independently in that fund, a bit of tension that we might be facing in a year's time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u85	Of course, that kind of tension is always possible. At the same time, I would like to refer to what Mr Van der Lee said in the House of Representatives, among others, and what many others have also said: we are there ourselves, and we know the history of the FES. So if we really do everything we can to get back at the same stone, then I'm sure we will. I'd be in favour of not doing that. I really think it would be wise to change this piece, which is clearly aimed at maintaining prosperity for the next generation, and just stay out of that cookie jar with our cookies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u86	We will come back to that later. However, I still have another question, which is more for the future. Is the Minister and also the next cabinet in the next formation prepared to reconsider what we actually think of the ordinary service and the capital service? That is a bit of a separate issue, but the capital service also makes the long-term investment priorities much clearer, rather than having to cover everywhere with budget coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u87	I am not quite sure if I have understood what Mr Van Rooijen is trying to do with his question, so it is also complicated to give me an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u88	To the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u89	He doesn't want to go to the Growth Fund, I guess. And we're supposed to be talking a little bit about the Growth Fund today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u90	I have already indicated that I do not expect an answer to this at the moment, but I think it should be said in this discussion that this is an old discussion. We used to feed these. My question is, in fact, whether this is something that is being considered in the Ministry at some point, regardless of what is being discussed at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u91	Not so much in this clutch. At the same time, there is, of course, very wide-ranging thinking about everything, so in that sense I can easily say yes. What I think is sensible is that we should take that up again when we have a review, a first evaluation. I'd say that's gonna be somewhere in 2022. It cannot be ruled out that Mr Van Rooijen and I have disappeared long and wide behind the horizon. So I'm gonna put it on the order list, and I'm gonna ask people to keep that official.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u92	Very briefly, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u93	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. Let me ask you a different question. Has there been any thought at the Ministry in the recent past, perhaps weighing up all the pros and cons again, as to whether there should perhaps be another capital service at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u94	There are such wonderful people in those ministries, so what comes together in all these heads and comes together is impossible for me to share here. It wasn't specifically converted into a note I've seen recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u95	Let me come back to the discussion on the investment framework. Fortunately, in the debate with Mr Crone, the Minister indicated that he was in favour of a solid legal framework. For my group, it is very crucial to get confirmation from you once again that it is not the intention to give this investment framework a slightly more flexible shape, but rather to establish more precisely and more clearly how this growth fund can be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u96	I very much agreed with what Mr Schalk said. I only thought I could answer Mr Crone's questions in such a way that I could free him from the idea that it might have a negative impact on projects, they would still want to ask for access somewhere else. At the same time, I hoped Mr Schalk and all the others... I think they are quite right to say: be careful, organize it well, be open and firm to let things go on on the basis of substantive criteria and do not give it up when it is politically appropriate. I very much agree with that and Wiebes agrees with that. Mr. Chairman. I have said the following in the House of Representatives, and I would like to repeat it here. If that is not possible, then I would be in favour of taking the whole thing off the table, because then we obviously can't. It's complicated. There are all kinds of ifs and buts. There are all kinds of bears on the road. I think that is why we have changed it with a lot of safeguards. I think it's really worth it, because I really believe it can have great added value for our country. However, that is not a fact either. That is why it is so important to do it nicely at the front and to keep doing it with each other. Mr. Chairman. I have a few final comments to make. Mr Vendrik asked about European taxonomy. His interest in this and for what is going on in this area in the financial sector is very familiar to me. In my view, he and I agree that sustainability in the financial sector needs to be further improved. The Netherlands really plays a leading role in this. However, this is not directly applicable to the Growth Fund. What I can do, and I can promise him, is this. I give the idea that taxonomy could serve as an inspiration to the Committee of Inquiry once again. That's in that context. I don't think you can stick it one-on-one. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Otten's motion. This motion calls on the government to amend or supplement the plans for the Growth Fund in such a way that an appropriate emergency braking procedure and so on would be added. The guarantees with which the Growth Fund has been given, I have actually just pointed out once again in the direction of Mr Schalk. So if I can read Mr Otten's motion in such a way that it is a way of ensuring that Parliament can stop spending if there is no support for it, then the good news is that the motion is superfluous. This has already been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u97	As you know, our group never table unnecessary motions, but only very targeted and effective motions that really raise a fundamental problem. Of course, this motion falls into that category. We talked about state capitalism. Let's take the investment in TenneT, which is now leading to enormous obligations, or your investment in KLM that I will not rub in now, I believe, is 80% loss. That is state capitalism that we are not getting very excited about, I say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u98	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u99	Isn't it the political dynamic that this kind of process goes like this? You experienced this yourself at KLM. How can you prevent this from happening with this Growth Fund and that future generations will say in 20 years' time: what the hell have these people been doing with their stupid investments twenty years ago? How do you prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u100	I shall leave all the other fine dossiers mentioned by Mr Otten to the left or to the right, otherwise I will not stick to the times you have indicated. This is a motion calling for the addition of an emergency braking procedure. For the cabinet it is relevant that there is always an emergency braking procedure for Parliament. First of all, there is by means of the calling to account and bringing out here of the rulers. Two: I have just made that clear to Mr Schalk, there is the possibility of agreeing a budget or demanding that a ruler adjusts a budget and then, should that not happen, aligning that budget. Three: If Parliament really did not like it, then Parliament, of course also the First Chamber, has the possibility of a motion of censure or, if necessary, a motion of censure. So the guarantees are all there. That makes it unnecessary for me to consider a separate emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u101	As far as I am concerned, you can take "Emergency brake" widely. Now there's some kind of committee of the good and the great that decides where that money should go. Put an appropriate risk committee or supervisory board in place or I know what, but people with real knowledge, who can keep things in line, because this has all the ingredients to derail significantly. So, as far as we are concerned, you do not have to model the emergency braking system of the EU Restoration Fund. We'd like a working emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u102	There are so many safeguards in the front. There are so many safeguards against the role of the committee. If you didn't make it through this, adding such a type of emergency brake wouldn't help. I think we have done a very well-balanced and well-designed job. The parliamentary instruments are simply fully applicable to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u103	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u104	Yes, but that also applied to the FES and to all the other funds. It didn't work there either. Lessons from the past do not guarantee the future, but you can learn from that that does not work. We're really worried. I would once again call on the Minister to do something with an emergency brake so that, if this really doesn't work, you can stop and not go through with it out of prestige.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u105	Thank you, Mr. Otten. The Minister and then Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u106	I'm in favour of not going through with things out of prestige anyway, but just seeing what works. I have said many times, but it turns out that it still applies today, that Mr Otten's enthusiasm for this subject can be strengthened even further. I would also like to thank him for all the compliments he has made to the fund and also to me personally. Mr President, I was almost at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u107	Will you finish it first? Then we're still looking at interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u108	No, I had one last comment. I think I can move on to the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u109	The longer Mr Otten talks about state capitalism, the greater the desire on my part to start with what has really affected us over the past 25 years, namely a completely derailed financial sector. That was our big problem, not this. Anyway, that's not today's topic. I hear you say it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u110	I thought so, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u111	A few points, if I may. Then I'm out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u112	If you have a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u113	Sure. As far as taxonomy is concerned, I understand the Minister's commitment. Taxonomy was indeed born to promote transparency in the financial sector, against greenwashing and so on. But it delivers a fantastic sample map of what really is a sustainable economy. Let that be a great source of inspiration for those in committee who are concerned with the assessment of projects. It could help them. I think we can all enjoy how they use this taxonomy experimentally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u114	So the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u115	The question is whether the Minister not only wants to recommend this, but also wants to ask the committee: tell us, like it, the assessment gets better, and what can we improve in taxonomy, so that we progress on both sides on the broad prosperity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u116	Let me make it clear to the committee that some members of this Chamber have added another cri de coeur to this inspiration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u117	"Thank you for this commitment," I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u118	Thank you. My other first-term question was about the focus of the fund. This minister is talking about the cookie jar where everyone has to stay off with their cookies. I get that. A tough procedure has been established to promote this as much as possible. My first-term point was perhaps the Minister would like to respond explicitly to it, so that the prevention of abuse of the cookie jar starts with a good focus. What's in it or what's in it? What's supposed to be in it? What is the fund for? We debated this last year. Now, after a year, we know what the cabinet wants. I think we've done enough. Can the Minister explain this briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u119	Yeah, I think so. I think that Mr Wiebes has just said that this is also evident from the treatments in the House of Representatives and the previous things we have discussed there. I'm gonna have to spend a little more time on this, Mr. Chairman. If you look at what makes sustainable growth and if you want to do something good for the country along those lines, then all the experts we have consulted around the world say that you should try to figure out sensible things with long horizons in terms of innovation, R&D, knowledge development and infrastructure. It's about that type of project. Of course, you are also close to other forms of education, but that whole palette typically produces long-term growth, sustainable growth. Then, of course, we ourselves, here and in the dialogue with Mr Vendrik, have added all kinds of criteria that make you do so but not get into another problem and are accidentally setting up a fantastic earning model for the 20th century. Think of what Mr Wiebes has often said. He doesn't want to set up a new petrochemical cluster in Rotterdam. That is quite obvious. I think that is what I can say about this briefly. I believe that this is also entirely in line with the consistency I have shown and also with the inspiration that Mr Vendrik has already wanted to add on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u120	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u121	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Here too, taxonomy helps, but I say that in abundance for the enjoyment. The last question. We have just talked about the internal CO price. I assume that when the committee has assessed projects and reports back to the cabinet and the cabinet decides to take over and make a budget for them, we will see that in the documents here. I think that it would be very helpful, also for the learning capacity of all of us, if we understood in the report on those projects for which the government gives the green light and for which it is therefore proposing to Parliament to allocate money from the fund, how this internal CO price has worked, how high it was, how it has gone in the sums and how it has been involved by the committee in the final weighing. I think that the Minister could very well admit that we are all going to see this in full transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u122	I'd like to rephrase it. I would like to say that we are also giving this thought to the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u123	Mr. Otten. Oh, Mr. Vendrik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u124	No, this subject is a little too important for that. We attach great importance to this internal CO price and how it works. We agree with the cabinet on that. The level is extremely important for the question of whether we can really speak of a fund that finances projects worthy of the logo that they later contribute to broad prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u125	What I want on this subject, of course... I'm going to say it a little homely. Mr Vendrik is somewhere in that car and is constantly taking control of himself. I love keeping him in the backseat. I think it is so important that I give this to the committee. Mr Wiebes has already promised all kinds of things about CO and what you could do with it, including in the report. It is also the right of Parliament to ask us to do so, if the report from the cabinet is not forthcoming, and to say that we really want to do so differently. At the same time, I say that projects have not even been selected; let alone that they have seen the light of day and let alone that we have reported on them. To say what exactly this report looks like at this particular point, I think, quite frankly, that goes a long way. I think it might work out that way. I also think it is excellent to give this to the committee. I just said that a little less generous, but it comes down to the same thing. But I will say it again: if you put together one of these 18-carat committees that is following all these debates, I do not think it is necessary not only to beat the picket posts but also to frame them completely with barbed wire. That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u126	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u127	I regret this qualification. I'm not driving. I'm not in the backseat either. I am a simple parliamentarians asking for good information and it is about public money. That's the way it is. And I think this is a pretty vital part. How the committee reports and assesses, we are all going to see that, but this point is not for nothing in the letter of December 1st of the cabinet. I share that very much with the cabinet. This is an important point; this is a cornerstone of the assessment. We agree on that. Then it is not surprising that I am asking a purely information question, so that when the projects are presented here for approval under budget law, we all understand how that cornerstone of the assessment has gone down, how the committee has done it. That's not so weird, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u128	No, but I would like to refer again to my previous answer. Look, the cabinet included it in the letter. Of course, that's not for nothing. The cabinet's gonna go ahead, and I said that just now.....it's gonna give this back to the committee. But to start describing in detail what exactly that reporting should be... To be honest, I am also inclined to think of this: let us give this committee, which follows very closely what has been discussed here, just the chance to choose the type of reporting on this subject itself. To be honest, that is a testament to trust and maturity. So I would like to give them the specific contours we agreed on in Parliament, but I do not want to close everything at the front as well. So I think it's gonna be okay, but I'd like to refer you to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u129	I am very grateful to Mr Vendrik van GroenLinks for his contribution to this discussion. Because what made this very clear, and also the answer given by Minister Wiebes, is that Mr Vendrik is not sitting in the back seat and is trying to grab the steering wheel. No, the car of the National Growth Fund has already tuned the autopilot to the sustainability rate. So Mr Vendrik proves my point and he could not have done it better than I could have done it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u130	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u131	...that this is a sustainability illusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u132	Mr. Otten, I'm giving you the floor to ask a question, but not to comment on your colleagues, because that'll take us a long time. So if you have one more question, I will now give you the floor to ask it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u133	You're always very complimentary yourself, so I thought I'd do that for once. But my question to the Minister is: how do you see it? For Mr Vendrik, I think, is quite right to say that this money should be used for sustainability...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u134	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u135	...so that back seat... No, he's already at the wheel!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u136	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u137	No, I've been trying to use a Dutch figure or speech in good Dutch. And I have seen that I have made Mr Vendrik more sad than I intended. It's not like that, that was unintentional. But everything about sustainability... That has been discussed so extensively in the Lower House, just now with Minister Wiebes... I suggested, Mr President, that I do not outline these contours for another few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u138	No, definitely not. You don't have time for that either. Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u139	Mr President, I believe that I have come to the end of my first, and with that last, term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u140	You said you had a final remark before the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u141	I believe that I have incorporated it into everything I have just discussed with the last speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u142	I thought you wanted to say goodbye for the season, but that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u143	Now that you give me that opportunity, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u144	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u145	I come to the budget. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Mr Otten wishes to vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u146	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about 20 billion, a lot of money, for our future generations, so we are calling for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u147	You're demanding a roll call vote? Then the agreement is that that roll-call vote will take place at a next sitting. So that's gonna be planned the next time we get together. I'm gonna suspend for one minute, see if we can plan this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-25.u148	A roll-call vote has been requested. I'll plan those for after Christmas. I therefore propose that we vote on the motion tabled. After the suspension, we will vote.
